ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the work of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu during the 9th week. Monday's session. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Youth Work Act, the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia and the Law on Interest Schools. The Government of the Republic shall be represented by the Minister of Education and Research in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U3	There's no more calls. The two draft laws that have been passed will be dealt with in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! Currently, 88 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Clarification and validation of the agenda. First of all, on behalf of the Bureau, let me thank all the political groups for their cooperation in preparing this week's agenda. In addition, I have the following messages for you. The authors of the inquiry withdrew their inquiry to Liisa Oviir, Minister for Enterprise No 270, which was scheduled for today's third item on the agenda. This is therefore off the agenda. Secondly, the initiator withdrew the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act 266, which was scheduled for the third item on the agenda of the Tuesday sitting. This item is therefore also excluded from the agenda. Also, pursuant to § 56 (1) (1) (1) and (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, I have added to the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu to the Prime Minister candidate appointed by the President of the Republic, Jüri Ratas, in order to establish a government, the decision on the granting of powers. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 9th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U4	Giving prime minister candidate Jüri Ratas the power to form the Government of the Republic. I would like to remind you of the procedure for this item on the agenda. By decision No 17 of 20 November, the President of the Republic appointed Jüri Ratas as Prime Minister candidate and instructed him to form a government. According to § 89 of the Constitution, the prime minister candidate will present a report to the Riigikogu on the foundations of the future government. The Prime Minister's candidate has expressed his wish to make a presentation to the Riigikogu at today's session. The report by Jüri Ratas on the basis of which the government was formed lasts up to 25 minutes. After that, members of the Riigikogu may ask up to two oral questions to the candidate Prime Minister. There will be no negotiation. The final vote will be taken after the questions have been answered. Prime minister candidate Jüri Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! Happy people of Estonia! Our dear Republic of Estonia will soon celebrate its 100th birthday and will play a responsible role before this Presidency of the European Union. Estonia has come this far thanks to the love of its homeland passed on from generation to generation and to the determined and often self-sacrifice work of all our people. I would like to thank every person who has contributed to the advancement of our country and our people. It is a great honour to stand before you in this Chamber today as a candidate for prime minister. In the Chamber of the Riigikogu, countless decisions have been taken over 94 years, most of which, unfortunately, passed under the conditions of occupation of foreign powers. Undoubtedly, the most important vote in this hall took place on 20 August 1991, when 69 members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia gave their support to the decision on Estonia's national independence. I really appreciate 20. The contributions of the members of the August Club who have been represented in all the Riigikogu configurations. We all have reason to be proud of our country and our people. At the same time, it must be saddened to admit that our Estonia is facing several serious challenges today. The population crisis, social inequalities, economic stagnation and state security are issues that cannot and must not be overlooked. Tackling these key problems is the goal of the Social Democratic Party, the Union of Fatherland and Res Publica and the Estonian Central Party government union. Honourable listeners! Estonia's foreign and security policy is consistent and is based on a broad consensus. NATO and EU membership are the most important guarantee of Estonia's security and well-being. The Estonian governments have maintained a common course here, thereby increasing the quality of life of the Estonian people and strengthening the foundations of our national independence. Of course, the government union that is being set up will continue along the same path. The opposite arguments temporarily circulating in Estonia and foreign media are extremely sad. I would like to remind you once again that it is unacceptable to play with the fundamental values of our statehood and the international reputation of the Republic of Estonia. Fortunately, in recent weeks, these erroneous messages have been explicitly disproved both in Estonia and in the foreign media. The government that I am asking you to set up today and asking for powers is actually taking a step forward in foreign and security policy. We will focus more attention and funding on our External Action Service and create an additional defence investment programme. We will also develop without delay the priorities of the European Union Presidency and ensure the successful organisation of the Presidency in the second half of 2017. I firmly confirm that Estonia will continue to develop its own defence capabilities and keep defence expenditure at least 2% of GDP. This is complemented by the investments needed for the reception of NATO's allies. The military service, officers and sub-officers, the reserve army, the strong Defence League, as well as regular exercises and the presence of allies will continue to be our important support points in national defence. In order to strengthen society's resilience in crisis situations, we adopt the concept of population protection. Resisting international terrorism and other threats of our times requires strong broad-based cooperation between countries in international operations. Historical experience has taught us that Estonia must not be left alone. A determined and united European Union and NATO are the most important factors in ensuring both Estonia and international security. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia has been a member of the European Union for 12 years, but the gap with the wealthier countries is still unacceptably large. Unfortunately, our economic development has slowed down and we need new ideas and initiatives to boost growth. Yesterday's solutions will no longer help today, and even less will be useful tomorrow. The Chinese proverb says: 'Better to stumble on new paths than to stand still on old roads. " The goal of the government union that is being created is to vigorously implement the necessary investments and tax changes. We keep the average of the state budget in structural balance, but we are prepared to use reasonable financial instruments to finance profitable investments. I give a concrete example of Tallinn City Hall, from which we wish to build an international conference centre in cooperation with the capital. We also support local authorities, housing fund investments, build a broadband distribution network and carry out large-scale infrastructure investments. In taxation, we carry out the most necessary tax reform in Estonia, which has restored its independence. We raise the tax-free income of people earning average wages to 500 euros per month. This will give people earning up to 1200 euros every month 62 euros more than the current law would provide for. Anyone who earns between EUR 1758 per month will benefit from the tax changes. The tax burden of these wealthier ones will increase by EUR 1 to 38 per month, depending on income. I am convinced that the people of Estonia with higher incomes are willing to give these 38 euros in the interests of greater social cohesion and stability and faster overall economic and wage growth. In order to support the tourism sector and boost the economy, we will not increase the value added tax (VAT) of accommodation establishments from 9% to 14% in 2017 and the planned 10% increase in excise duty on diesel in 2018. In order to compensate for tax changes, several sources of cover have been provided, for example, we impose bank charges on financial institutions and prevent the hidden withdrawal of profits from Estonian companies. In order to reduce the consumption of alcohol and sugar, we will increase the rate of excise duty on beer, fermented beverages and wine and tax on drinks with high sugar content. In difficult times, our agriculture and rural areas need special attention. We will increase funding for the sector to the maximum rate of transitional support, as well as increasing resources for crisis assistance in 2017. In order to improve entrepreneurship, we will implement the zero bureaucracy initiative and create a development programme for the ICT sector. We will also work to bring cargo ships under the flag of Estonia. To support the low-paid, we propose that the social partners continue to raise the minimum wage. The government union that is being created ends the current situation in which ministers appoint members of the Riigikogu to the councils of companies and foundations of the state. Several Chancellors of Justice have confirmed that this violates the principle of separation of powers. In order to make the work of national companies more effective and transparent, larger companies will follow the rules on disclosure of information on the stock exchange. Good fellows! In order to bring Estonia's population up again, we want to increase the well-being of all people, increase the number of healthy lives and invite all people who have left Estonia to return to their homeland. Every bill and programmed document must contribute to resolving the population crisis and curbing emigration. The creation of a family requires an environment of security and support for raising children, so we want to raise the pay of kindergarten teachers to the minimum wage for school teachers. We will also bring teachers' average wage to 120% of the Estonian average by 2019 and increase the funding required for the use of support specialists. During the coalition talks, we received many letters and messages from friends, acquaintances and Estonian people in general. I recall a disturbing message from a schoolboy who wished to confirm that he would continue to receive a free school lunch. He contacted me because he had heard correctly from the media that all ideas were welcome. I am pleased to confirm that, in order to provide healthy and accessible school meals, we will increase the allowance for school lunch to one euro. Raising this support has been a proposal for the Government Coalition by the Municipal Cooperation Council for years. In the education system, we continue to develop state secondary schools, but after 2023 we promise to maintain upper secondary schools by local governments. We also ensure greater funding for rural upper secondary schools beyond the county centres. The state must ensure accessible education throughout Estonia, not only in larger centres. Ten students of Ruhnu Basic School deserve equivalent study conditions for their peers in Tartu or Tallinn. In R &amp; D, we aim to bring funding to 1% of GDP and to enhance cooperation with the private sector. To ensure good growth, we raise doctoral scholarships. In the same way, we will continue to raise the wages of cultural workers and increase the funding for sport. Keeping the Estonian language is the responsibility of each government, which is why we ensure the availability of high-quality Estonian language learning, the necessary educational resources and further training. We build an Estonian language house in Narva and Tallinn and raise the quality of teaching the Estonian language in educational institutions. We also provide people wishing to have citizenship of the Republic of Estonia with a contract whereby the state offers free courses in Estonian. We are fighting against the reproduction of citizenshiplessness, making it easier for children born here to obtain the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia. Every child born in Estonia is necessary for the survival of our country and people. Combining different communities and associating society is undoubtedly one of the priorities of the government to be created. We involve all Estonian people, regardless of gender, age, outlook or nationality. After all, Johann Voldemar Jannsen, one of the leaders of our national awakening, said: 'The Estonian people should, if you allow us to say, be more warm and united than they are. ' Honourable ambassadors! We are also moving forward in the area of environmental policy, which is based on a science-based approach and a prudent use of natural resources. The attitude to the environment has always been the principle of my upbringing at home. We will ensure at least 65% recycling of municipal waste by 2030. We will also adopt a development plan that will increase the share of renewable energy by 2030. Internal security plays an important role in improving people's living environment. We will strengthen community-centred police work and the network of regional police, especially in rural areas. We will also significantly increase the police's rapid response capacity We also improve the safety equipment for rescuers and deminerators and update the rescue equipment. In order to value private sprayers, we will strengthen the volunteer rescue commandos. To make our environment safer, we also impose additional restrictions on alcohol advertising and sales. Good listeners! For more than 20 years, a number of issues relating to ownership reform have been unsolved. We therefore form a separate Commission to analyse the effects of this reform. In order to support the rights of Estonian people, we will review the principles of debt restructuring, in particular by strengthening the protection of domestic borrowers. In order to ensure equal pensions, we increase the basic amount of the state pension and reduce the share of the wage component. We have also made clear the objective of reducing the gender pay gap. To support young families, we make the parental benefit system more flexible and fix the upper limit on parental benefit. We raise the allowance for families with children to EUR 300 per month and delete student loans for parents of children with severe disabilities. In order to ensure the sustainable financing of health care, we will give up the reduction in social tax. We ensure better access to medical care for people in Estonia and we compensate for the cost of medical treatment for people with increased medical needs at a higher rate. Honorable stateswomen and statesmen! I think it is right to carry out a reform of the state and to cut red tape. At the same time, we cannot accept peripheralisation, but must ensure decent living conditions throughout Estonia. Savings should be searched where there is a real waste, not when you hit everything with a single table. Unfortunately, in recent years, the country has been drawn into a coma, primarily at the expense of rural areas. Cuts in the income base of local governments are one of many sad examples. Estonia cannot be run like an accountant. No one has expressed this principle more accurately than Lennart Meri, who has said: 'The Estonian state is expensive and the Estonian state is expensive. He's expensive for a citizen's pocket of money and he's expensive for a citizen's heart. " In order to ensure balanced development of Estonia, we increase the decision-making power of local governments and the income base of local governments and give them some of the tasks of the state, together with the corresponding funding. We will restore the EUR 250 funeral allowance to everyone, and we will allocate more resources to local governments. We hand over the organisation of regional public transport with additional funding to local public transport centres or municipalities. We will also speed up the transfer of unreformed state land and move state institutions to counties. In the course of my work, I have visited all the municipalities of Estonia and I very much hope that we will be able to bring life back to smaller rural areas. As a concrete measure, we have decided to develop an Ida-Virumaa programme to make the necessary investments in infrastructure and improve people's quality of life. Good listeners! The last few weeks have meant hard work and long negotiations. I would like to thank all political parties and partners for their difficult but constructive talks from start to finish. Politicians always have dissenting opinions on issues, but I dare say with confidence that the interests of the Estonian state and people were always at the forefront of the negotiations. I sincerely thank the representatives of the Free Party and the Conservative People's Party of Estonia for their valuable thoughts. We found a common section on both agricultural policy and support for local governments. I believe that the majority of the Riigikogu also sees the need to supplement the presidential election system and supports making election campaigns ideas-based rather than money- and volume-based. In addition, we want to equalise the periods of e-voting and pre-voting in the department in which we live. I would like to thank once again all politicians, experts, associations, entrepreneurs and all the people of Estonia who gave valuable input to the government union that was being created! I am very pleased that we even managed to fill with the margin the application of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation to raise tax-free income to 66% of the minimum wage. We also step on the same foot as the Estonian Abstinence Association and limit alcohol advertising. Many supporters were awarded the goal of increasing the proportion of women in government administration. I would certainly like to congratulate the Reform Party on their long-term contribution to the country's leadership. I am convinced that every government coalition has helped to rebuild and move Estonia forward. Here I bow deeply to all previous Riigikogu formations, ministers and heads of state. Honourable fellows! My cooperation with the Riigikogu began 11 years ago. As mayor of Tallinn, I was in close contact with members of the Riigikogu. Since 2007, I have been the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I take this opportunity to thank all members of XI, XII and XIII. I am deeply grateful to you for your pleasant and constructive cooperation. We have discussed and debated a lot of policies, but very often we have also found consensus. I've learned from all my co-workers. I recall the teaching of an official of the former Chancellery of the Riigikogu that the head of the sitting of the Riigikogu must take into account the principle that every procedure has a definite beginning and a clear end. If you trust me with the Prime Minister's responsible job today, I'm sure I'll miss that hammer strike. I would like to express my special thanks to my dear benchmate, Kadri Samson. During my term of office, I have conducted excursions in the Riigikogu for tens of thousands of interested people. 215 steps in the Tall Hermann Tower have become very dear to me. I have always shown my guests the fields of the ceiling of the Riigikogu Chamber and explained that their message from our forefathers is: we must also plow the legislative field carefully in order to get a good catch. I will never forget the sound of the beautiful anthem of the Republic of Estonia on Toompea, which helps me to remember every morning what we have been elected to Parliament for. One more thing I have to say from my heart: I will miss the basketball team of the Riigikogu very much. If you don't mind, I'll be happy to take part in my training in the future. Good friends! If I gain your trust today, I will take my long-standing experience as a opposition politician to the government. I know very well what it's like to be told that every idea you've got is wrong. I really want to change Estonia's political culture and to lose the understanding that the wrong man cannot do the right thing. If the opposition initiates a constructive and constructive change of law, we will discuss it rather than staggeringly reject it. I'm not saying it in my mouth, I'm saying it in my heart. If the Riigikogu gives its approval to the government union that is born today, all your thoughts and suggestions will be welcome in the future. Our good cooperation and mutual respect will continue. Good practice provides for a hundred days without criticism for the new government, but constructive criticism and constructive proposals for Estonia's life are already awaited today. Can I have an extra half a minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U6	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U7	Thank you. Me and all the candidate ministers understand the responsibility that is put on our shoulders. We are working in the knowledge that it is necessary to make Estonian society more equal, to bring the country closer to people and to lend a helping hand to all who need it. It is care and unity that our country needs most. I would stress that I will never become Prime Minister to one, two or three political parties; I will become Prime Minister to the entire state, Prime Minister to the people of Vilsandi Island and Narva, residents of Tallinn and Põlva County, Prime Minister to every person in Estonia. Dear ambassadors, thank you! Success and strength for our dear Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U8	And now questions to the prime minister's candidate from members of the Riigikogu. Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U9	Thank you, good Chairman. Good candidate! Last week, a report was made public, which shows that the International Criminal Court (ICC) considers that the international conflict of arms between Ukraine and Russia has taken place in Ukraine and Crimea. It has also been stated that Crimea has been occupied by Russia. My question to you is whether you agree with the position of the International Criminal Court and whether you are prepared to terminate the cooperation agreement with United Russia as Chairman of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U10	Thank you for your question. I think this is a very important question, and as long as Crimea is occupied, this subject must not be put in a drawer in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. Yeah, I agree with that. Now the second part of the question. On this point, I have been asked very closely over the last few weeks, I think more than two or three hundred times. I have clearly replied that the Cooperation Agreement, which has been concluded between two parties now more than ten years ago, simply stands. He's not working, he's off the table, he's frozen. And as long as the relations between these two countries are as they are now, that will remain the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U11	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your introduction. This is encouraging, but at the same time you not only offer additional opportunities to people in your fundamental principles, but also take them away with your other hand. Let me specifically ask you about an example. There is a clause in your agreement that you lose the opportunity to submit joint income tax returns for spouses. At present, it makes it possible to better regulate the distribution of income and expenditure within the family. Why don't you explain to us exactly what its purpose is and how it fits in with the protection of family values?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U13	Thank you for this very constructive question. I think that this most important tax reform of the Estonian era of independence must be explained more than once, twice or three times. In that sense, thank you for talking about it today. Indeed, it is our wish that the real monthly income of the people in the lowest wage decibel will increase. We very much want these people's social security to be strengthened. When we examine the opinion of Estonian companies and specialists, it becomes clear that their position on tax matters is very uniform. It is not a question of those earning a higher salary in Estonia, it is precisely those earning a lower salary. As I said, 86% of working-age residents win tax reform in Estonia. It is true that we are raising the tax-free minimum to EUR 500. It is now 170 euros. Let's think about it once, a little more than a year later, from January 1, 2018, every person who earns a low or average salary will receive an increase of 62 euros a month! Growth is not 2 euros per month, but 62 euros per month! Anyone who earns up to EUR 1758 will benefit from the tax changes. But the question was about giving up the joint declaration. If today we can really make joint declarations with EUR 170 + 170 written, which is EUR 340 in total, then in the future we will be able to submit declarations with a tax-free minimum of EUR 500.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U14	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U15	Thank you. Good George, I will now ask you for 301th time about this single Russia agreement. I learned in my time at the university that contracts are either valid or invalid, but we were not taught anything about contracts that are off the table, frozen, I don't know what the phrases are. If this covenant is as important to you as you are trying to express in your words, why do you not cancel it? Why do you still want to comply with the agreement, which states that the parties will carry out consultations and exchange information on topical issues in Estonia's relations with Russia, introduce their experiences to each other in building a party and analyse materials of mutual interest? If this agreement really doesn't matter to you, why don't you cancel it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U16	Thank you, Randpere. I'm sure that's a good question. I share with you basically the position you expressed. I have obtained a degree in law at the University of Tartu Law Institute. I think that's what you're saying. The only problem is that we do not have a cooperation agreement, we have a cooperation protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U17	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U18	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! From the point of view of Estonia's regional development, the development of the state's supporting roads and transport connections is extremely important. Minister Kristen Michal has initiated a project to transform major supporting roads into four lines, including Tallinna-Tartu, Tallinna-Narva, Tallinna-Pärnu road in the next 15 years. Similarly, Rail Baltic is a very important transport route. Neither of them did you mention in your speech. What is your position on the development of four-line roads, as well as on the construction of Rail Baltic?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U19	Thank you very much. I'm sure it's a very important question. I will begin by saying that in my opinion it is not at all the wrong direction for all the main roads in Estonia to be either 2 + 2 rows or in some places 1 + 1 with an additional line, if you use the solution we have seen in Scandinavian countries and Finland: the third line in certain ranges is meant for passing in both directions. Looking at you, I believe you know about me not five, but ten times better what it means to travel from Tallinn to Pärnu. And I'm sure you're very familiar with not only the words of Rail Baltic, but also the words of Via Baltica, which I think has been spoken about for 25 years. The directions you mentioned are not the wrong ones at all. The only question is whether to implement these projects in 15 years or less. I really mentioned that the government coalition that is to be created is planning to launch an investment programme. We have agreed very firmly that a large part of these investments will be spent in the interests of infrastructure, a large part in the area of defence and a certain part will be spent on housing. We will try to put even more money into road construction over the next three years, if this coalition of government still has the opportunity to shape the state budget and also the state's budget strategy, in order to ensure operationality, large volumes and secure traffic. Via Baltica is very clear on the table, as is building the Kosemäo connection. If I come to the train traffic now, there are two things to consider. One is that we cannot stand on the threshold of 2018 for example and say that the train will no longer go to Pärnu. However, having been quite familiar with the analysis of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the negotiations of this government coalition, I know that this threat is very high. I will certainly do everything in my power to ensure that people in Pärnu and all of Pärnu County, as well as people in the capital city and the Harju region, will be able to take the train to one place or another in the future. We have also discussed the subject of Rail Baltic in the negotiations of the government coalition and found that the new government office should review the whole project and then make its final decision. I haven't heard from anyone that this is a project that should definitely be pulled from the plans. It didn't exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U20	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U21	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! You also dealt with funding in your presentation. On Friday last week, your coalition published its programme of action funding and it has an immediate first heading that the corporate tax rate will fall to 14% in the case of regularly distributed profits. Could you explain how such a money machine works, that tax revenue will increase when the tax rate is reduced? You might want to ask from here why you're only lowering 6%. Lower twice as much, 12%, then we'll get not 100 million more, but 200 million more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U22	Thank you, Honourable Aivar Sõerd. It is, of course, difficult for me to argue with you on tax policy issues; I am not an equal partner for you. But I'll try. It is true that when this government coalition was formed, it was far from just politicians at the table. Financialists and other specialists in fiscal policy were also behind the table. The plan is to give a stronger impetus to stimulate our domestic consumption and to introduce a better tax threshold for the withdrawal of dividends. Even some politicians in the current coalition have written about it in the media. And, as I said, every idea is welcome, and this idea has also been very strongly supported by one of your party partners. I don't think that's a very new idea at all. The question is simply whether there is determination and courage to do it. And it's not like that 14% is a one-year rate, it's a three-year average when we're talking about withdrawing dividends. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U23	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U24	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good candidate for Prime Minister! Being constructive, I, too, acknowledge this message from your speech that large-scale infrastructure investments are planned. If you are missing one vote in order to do the Pärnu-Tallinn highway with 2 + 2 lines, then you can count on my vote. At the same time, I have reservations about the topic of Rail Baltic, which was asked whether it was really considered to abandon it. I would argue that, without any doubt, this would have irreversibly negative consequences for Estonia in terms of economic, security policy and also accessibility. It has been said a lot that if Estonia gives up Rail Baltic, we will also give up 900 million to billion euros of European money. You have emphasised investment as one of the sources and engines of economic growth. We no longer have time to discuss the path corridors; we need to discuss whether or not we are going to the end of this. Do you support Rail Baltic through Pärnu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U25	Thank you for this very serious question. I said that we have been discussing this issue, and it is only natural that the new cabinet wants to put such a large investment and such an important connection to Europe on its table once again. Don't mind the new ministers when this cabinet is born. In general, I attach great importance to the opinion of those who have been dealing with this subject for years. As far as I am concerned, the former Vice-President of the European Commission, who has seriously lured this idea, has confirmed in the Estonian press in recent days that this is a vital connection and investment for Estonia, and I do not consider this to be of any minor importance at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U26	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U27	Thank you! Good candidate for Prime Minister! Your coalition agreement briefly states this: we are conducting a state reform. Period. Definitely speaking. There will be some further comments that innovations in administrative regional reform will be completed, which means that you will distinguish between administrative reform and state reform. I ask you this: how do you understand the reform of the state and how do you complete it in the more or less two years you have at your disposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U28	Thank you for that question. First of all, a word about the wording of the coalition agreement. As you can see, there are no more than 15 pages. You quite rightly pointed out one keyword: 'analyze'. Words like this, we analyze, we think, we test or something, are very few here. Indeed, this coalition agreement is formulated in a clear and clear way. Now, what do we mean by "state reform"? Several aspects. First of all, it's a matter of county governments. If the administrative reform is to be completed by next autumn, i.e. after the local elections, I think that from now on, about a year will be necessary to maintain the functions that rural governments will perform. This issue will have to be reviewed in 2018, which is certainly one of the fundamental principles of state reform. The second basic principle that we have agreed and which has been on the table is that certain public authorities may also operate freely outside Tallinn or Tartu. If I am not wrong, the person sitting in front of you will know this better than I do, then for example, the Head Office of the Saaremaa Lines is not in Tallinn, Tartu or Pärnu, but in Kuressaare. We are certainly thinking very clearly about the removal of public authorities from the capital. And the third thing that is included in the coalition agreement and which I consider to be part of the state reform is that we now have public participation, if I am not mistaken, about 33 companies, either with 100% or less participation. I think there are quite a few of them that can be consolidated, and there are quite a few that need to be seriously considered whether they should be sold or transferred to the stock exchange to make their management more open and broad-based. Very briefly, this is the plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U29	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Dear Prime Minister, good George! You've written a coalition agreement that you're going to take the National Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa. As we know, the Academy of Home Affairs consists of different colleges, including the College of Finance, Justice, Police and Border Guard, Rescue, and, of course, the Master of Internal Security. Could you open up the background of this plan a little bit? Do you want to transfer the entire academy, some part of it, or what do you mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U30	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U31	Thank you. As far as I can tell, in order to transfer the institution to Narva or Ida-Viru County, the issue of land must first be resolved in both places. The general view has been that the Academy of Home Affairs could really be in Narva. This fundamental decision has been made. I also know the concerns involved. Once the land issue has been resolved, there will certainly be another concern as to whether the sale of this beautiful site of the Estonian National Defence Academy on Pirita and Lasnamäe column will be enough to cover the cost of the transfer. So, money trouble. The second question is how many faculty we get there. Of course I've heard that everyone doesn't want to go to work in Narva from Harjumaa. But it is generally decided that the Academy of Home Affairs could move to Narva, Ida-Virumaa. However, very specific details, which the good questioner asked about, we have not agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U32	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate! There are a number of good ideas in the program to deny. But getting the resources to make these good ideas work may not be quite well thought out. It may even be a violation of the law, and reaching the goal is questionable. This is where I come to help constructively. It is a good idea to support farmers, if you consider the general objective, but is the distribution of 20 million, with 20% of it going to the wind, figuratively speaking, not a hasty idea? Perhaps we should wait a while and come up with a new measure, such as helping to open up markets and create cooperatives? The question is whether you've considered it or whether you're really distributing top-up on the basis of old references.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U34	First of all, thank you for your support. I'm glad you can find some good ideas in our program. Thank you very much! If we are talking about additional agricultural support, or top-up, then what to do is that Estonia is in competition with other Member States of the European Union, especially with countries in our region, in a slightly unequal position. A lot of people pay top-up, a lot of people pay it at a maximum rate. We have not been paying attention to this for many years. I am pleased that we have agreed, as three partners, that we will start paying it not in 2018 but already in 2017. This old reference problem is also known to us, but there must be some reference year. And we are not limited to that support. In view of the difficult situation in pig farming, we have provided in the budget for the following year for breeding aid for pig farmers. This increase in crisis aid, I am thinking of EUR 484000 or some EUR 500000, is not of symbolic importance. These thoughts, which you mentioned, must certainly be brought to the table and discussed together when we plan the country's budgetary strategy for a longer period next year, and more specifically in spring-summer-Autumn, when the state budget is put together by 2018. I guess those thoughts are definitely on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U35	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U36	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, Jüri! The coalition agreement has now been signed, the councils have also confirmed the distribution of the ministerial portfolios. Ministers have also been finally found, even though their identity is not of fundamental importance. Now, when I looked at the distribution of the portfolios, I wondered if the Centre Party was a party of the Prime Minister. Your party does not run foreign, justice, internal or defence policy. How's that anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U37	Thank you, good questioner! That is a very legitimate question. I think in the next two or three or four hours this question will be decided in this Chamber. You must vote whether the Centre Party is a party of the Prime Minister or not. This cannot be decided by me; it is decided by the honourable Riigikogu. The Centre Party considers it important that we have many supporters so that our membership is large and growing. Good people are always welcome to our party, also welcome back. Now that we are talking about foreign policy, defence policy and the field of the Ministry of the Interior, these are really prestigious ministries, some call them ministries of power. I don't know, I've been less than a good questioner in politics for about 15 to 16 years. I can't tell you which of our 15 ministers' governments are less important. Honestly, I can't tell. We'll take the Ministry of the Environment from history, led by the chairman of the party. The same has been true of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence. Today, we see that the political party chairs actually run two areas of one ministry. I can't say they don't matter. And it wasn't the speech of the chairman of the Central Party in this hall today. As I said at the end of my speech, I am not applying for a mandate to become prime minister to supporters of one or two or three political parties, but to every person in Estonia. When I talk about my home party, we have always had important economic issues. I do not know if there has been one in the Estonian country before, that a person will be the leader of the same field for the third time. Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't remember right now. The area of education and research, which is clearly the area of the future, is also a very clear priority for us. I commended, and not the mouthful, before the Reform Party. The Reform Party has led, in my opinion, a very important area of public administration, where the biggest reform of Estonia in the last 15 years is taking place. We are willing to carry on with this responsibility. I do not think that this is a secondary ministry or field in Estonia. But as I have just answered the good fellow Mrs Trei, everything that relates to rural agriculture is basic for us. We saw that the painting had been abandoned and that more initiative had to be taken. This is an area where more should be done. However, I dare not say that so-called our ministries are more important than those of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union or Social Democrats. True, there is another important place in the Government of the Republic that is currently being filled by the President of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U38	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U39	Thank you, good Chairman. Good candidate for Prime Minister! You will bring out in the preamble to the Coalition Treaty that you will listen to civil society, opposition parties, entrepreneurs and experts. I want to point out that the NGO is tired of listening. In fact, the new government is expected to allow all parties to participate in the decision-making process, which is real involvement. Here's my question. Today, in the Committee on the Environment, the Free Party defended a draft aimed at resolving the problems of landowners who have to comply with conservation restrictions. Do you think it would be reasonable for the state to bring some stability into their lives? What mechanisms do you use to speed up the buying-out of conservation land? Do you consider it appropriate to give extra money from the government fund for this, or are you trying to solve it with the Earth Administration's provisions, which will definitely prolong the process?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U40	Thank you. I also generally believe that representative democracy is important, but participatory democracy is even more important. You made a remark that the civil society no longer wants to be heard, not only to be listened to, but also to be involved. That is, in my opinion, the principle of participatory democracy. You also raised the question of restricted land. I certainly don't answer that yes, let the Earth Authority take care of it with its money, I understand that he'll do it for the next, I don't know, a hundred years, maybe. In the two weeks that we have been negotiating, we have also been able to take our thoughts into account when changing the budget, and the budget clearly includes compensation for land with conservation restrictions. It does not solve the whole issue, but it shows that we want to solve it. So it's basically entered into the budget, but it's not enough to solve the whole issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U41	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! This is the point in the section on your coalition agreement's security policy: 'Estonia supports the common policies of the European Union and NATO aimed at safeguarding Ukraine's sovereignty and restoring territorial integrity. 'What can I have against this point? It is strange, however, in the context of this sentence, that the party of the Prime Minister, the Central Party, has not yet expressed an unambiguous position on the events in Ukraine. Today you spoke with a strong voice, confirming that Crimea was occupied. My question: will you, as Prime Minister, be ready before next year's municipal elections, to tell the Russian-speaking voters of the Central Party that Crimea is occupied and that the Russian Federation is engaged in a mutilated aggression in Eastern Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U43	Thank you. First of all, I do not agree that the Centre Party has not said anything except what I said today about Ukraine. If I am not mistaken, the XII formation made a statement of support for Ukraine in support of its territorial integrity. I am sure the group chairman will remember this more precisely, but I think at least five of our group started this statement, we agreed with several other parties. So this accusation is certainly unfounded. Why should I change my position in June or September 2017 or, for example, on the evening of 14 October? No, I won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U44	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! Your agreement says you're implementing a personal medicine pilot project. It made me a little confused. Personal medicine has been a serious focus for several years, and pilot projects have also been repeatedly carried out. I would like to mention, for example, the last major pilot project in the Ministry of Social Affairs, which seeks to assess the applicability of personal medicine in three clinical areas and to develop e-services. Hence my question: maybe this is a linguistic problem, but what do you mean by personal medicine? What is this new initiative anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U46	Thank you. We have indeed agreed that there will be a pilot project in this area. That's point one. Point two is that, as you certainly understand, in these negotiations, there were two ministers at the table from this ministry. There is an agreement that the plan will be developed during the first quarter. And, of course, after that, it will come to the government table. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U47	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! My question, according to you, comes about the most important reform of the last 15 years, i.e. administrative reform. The law has been passed. We know that our today and your future partner, IRL, have defended the view that the size of municipalities could be at least 11000 inhabitants. The Centre Party has made a number of proposals during the procedure to reduce the minimum requirement. I have a question for you, the prime minister's candidate. Are you also prepared to accept the message stick that you, like the current Prime Minister, are managing everything that concerns the administrative reform yourself? And what is your message as a former local government leader to those municipalities that are less than 5,000 or much larger than 5,000 inhabitants? How's it going?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U49	Thank you. A few words, if you will allow me, Mr Andre Sepp, in answer to the previous question. Personal medicine generally means an individual approach to patients, specific treatments and preventive measures. Coming to local government and administrative reform, I assure you that we will proceed on the basis of the current law. We are listening to the basic criticisms of the local governments that have spoken about the Administrative Reform Act. The criticism has been made in two directions: clear funding principles and a clear division of tasks are sought. As far as the principles of funding are concerned, I have personally communicated with representatives of local governments and I know what they have said otherwise. In 2009, a large cut was made, the percentage of personal income tax passed to municipalities was reduced. It was really a time of crisis back then. You also know what it means to lower this rate from 11.93% to 11.4%. In addition, the fine-tuning fund, which at that time amounted to approximately 440 million kroons. I remember there was also an explanatory statement that told the municipalities that you no longer have to do youth sports. Well, we all know that municipalities continue to engage in youth sport, even more actively. You asked me what my message was. One message is that we want to restore the downsized 440 million kroons. This is about 30 million euros and will come from 2018. In addition, as I said in my speech, we will increase the allowance for school lunch by 22 euro cents, or one euro. This will require about EUR 6 million per year and we will hand it over to local authorities. On the table of local governments, however, the last three or four years have been another important issue. This is related to support specialists in the education system. In order to alleviate this problem, we see a EUR 6 million allocation. And another task you asked how to implement the administrative reform is linked to the problem of getting out of forest farms. There are no problems here in the capital or in Tartu. We have decided that public transport within the county is an area in which we trust municipalities to regulate. We hand over the organisation of public transport within the county to municipalities and not only in the current volume of subsidies. We have clearly said that we will allocate an additional EUR 21 million. This gives regional public transport centres or municipalities the opportunity to organise this transport at their own discretion. I hope that travel will become more frequent and operational. And there is also the possibility that it will become free public transport. As far as municipalities are concerned, with the help of the Ministry of Culture, they need to carry out another important task, which I think must not be forgotten when introducing the coalition agreement. Estonia is a sea state. We have many other bodies of water, rivers and lakes, and we know how important swimming skills are and how many people have drowned because they did not have this skill. Many children get swimming skills at school, but to do so, students in the second class need to learn more about swimming instead of about 24 hours, for example 40 hours. Then they'll find out. Now this figure, which was in the other part of the question: could there be at least 5,000 or 11000 inhabitants? There are certain differences in the current law. There is a difference between islands and there is also a difference between border municipalities. No, we're not going to change that limit. However, I will be very clear that if all of this comes to the table of the Government of the Republic, it is a very clear point of consideration for me whether or not to initiate a coercion. I am certainly following the principle that when municipalities join and, for example, there is a municipality with 4800 inhabitants, that is no reason to say that this is not appropriate under any circumstances. If it is a reasonably formed municipality with a so-called "movement shoulder" or "transport shoulder," then it should be seriously considered. A lot has been said here that if Vaivara and Narva-Jõesuu join in Ida-Virumaa, there will most likely not be 5,000 inhabitants, so they should join the city of Narva. Well, it just gets absurd. Now, this third part of the question was a very fundamental question, which is why I am sorry, but a few more words. The question was whether this area would remain, if you gave me the authority, my responsibility as Prime Minister, or my shoulders. Yeah, sure. This is such an important issue that there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U50	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U51	Thank you. Good candidate for Prime Minister! There are certainly very good and wise ideas in the newly signed and published coalition agreement that can be supported. But in a quick reading, I also discovered a lot of things that could not be accepted or that would not be understood. As one of the projects, you allow to initiate the Ida-Virumaa programme. The Ida-Viru County Action Plan and the South East-Estonia Action Plan are currently in place. This is where I read the very clear message to the people of South-East Estonia: you will no longer be in this focus from now on. Could you explain a little about why Southeast Estonia is out of attention?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U52	Thank you, good questioner! Really, I'm sorry! You're right. The coalition agreement was at one o'clock today. Now let's look at the clock, it's ten minutes past four, so the deal was signed three hours ago. All you could do was read fast. If there's any time, try to read it again, read it more carefully. There really is, like you said, a lot of good things inside. It's not a bad deal at all, I think. But when we talk about these action plans and also consider the problems of South-East Estonia, we will not stop the good action plans. On the contrary! However, as I think I said, we did not want to make a 50-page document. We wanted this agreement to be quite specific. The current action plans under way are certainly being reviewed by the government, but I do not see any reason why we should withdraw these tasks. Now, Ida-Viru County. We've been over this. There are three main lines of action: there are the transport and infrastructure direction, certain roads, certain light traffic routes; there is the direction of the renovation of medical institutions and the transfer of one educational establishment to Narva, which Mr Laane was asking about here. The infrastructure direction also includes a faster connection to Ida-Viru County. These are the main things that are included in this plan. Since it wasn't written so far, we brought it out separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U53	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U54	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good candidate for Prime Minister! The coalition agreement aims at accelerating economic growth. We know that the biggest brakes in Estonia's economic growth have been slowed down by productivity growth. My question is what are the concrete measures you are planning to take to speed up productivity growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U55	Thank you for this very legitimate question. Since it was so specific, I am also trying to respond very specifically. In our opinion, tax cuts for businesses are something that has so far been feared as fire to increase competitiveness. But in a business sector or in a region, there could be certain differences in order to improve competitiveness and increase exports. This is one very specific measure that is specifically intended for businesses. The doubling of doctoral grant or scholarship compared to the current one can also be mentioned, which will also contribute to the development of our business and innovation. There are also fundamental changes to the agreement in one particular area of business. I have to thank the Free Party here once again, who, some time ago, initiated the debate on the state of the maritime and maritime sectors in the Riigikogu as an important national issue. We have entered into the agreement that we want to bring the cargo ships back under the Estonian flag in order to bring the Estonian economy back to life with it. The new coalition has agreed that we will be flexible in making such distinctions. In addition, smaller steps are planned that will certainly contribute to our competitiveness and entrepreneurship. I bring, for example, such things as small businesses in the business account and tax changes to the self-employed. These are some examples. And, of course, there is another very important decision that I think will help to increase competitiveness. About a year ago, the government raised VAT on accommodation facilities at the request of today's Prime Minister's party. This, in my opinion, created a very acute problem in Estonian society. Accommodation and tourism companies confirmed that raising the tax from 9% to 14% is not the right approach. But that's the big increase we're planning right now. We wish to cancel this. We understand that this means approximately EUR 11 million minus directly in the budget, but we think that at the same time it will boost the economy in this sector. Another example is the rate of excise duty on diesel. We all know that when the excise duty on diesel is rising, all business sectors, including consumers, will suffer. We have foreseen that there will be no increase in excise duty on diesel from 1 January 2018. These are some examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U56	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U57	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good candidate for Prime Minister! So far, in the media controlled by the Centre Party, such as Tallinn Television and the capital newspaper, politicians from a predominantly middle party background have taken up positions against the government. My question is this: will these media publications now continue to operate in such a way that non-discretion is being turned against the largest opposition party in Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U58	Thank you. I understand very well the undertone of this issue without a joke. I think that when it comes to the local government council's media channel and it is about the local government's media channel, the principle must be very clearly one: it must be broad-based. This cannot be central to one party. If mistakes have been made here, they must be corrected. Will it be that only one party in the Riigikogu will be criticized by the Tallinn Television? God forbid I didn't. It can't be like this. In general, however, neither the Prime Minister, the Government of the Republic nor the Riigikogu prescribes how a local government has to deal with its own budget. This is a sovereign decision of the municipality. Speaking of content, there are some pretty good shows. There's one television host sitting at the back of the other four seats. I think that Mr Gräzin has also shown some very interesting thought developments there during the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U59	And now is the time to give the floor to Igor Gräzin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U60	Thank you. Our programme is very narrowly specialised, it only deals with two very narrow issues and nothing else. These subjects are man and the world, nothing else. Your fellow fighter and my colleague in the Committee on Rural Affairs, Martin Repinski, said about a month ago in the newspaper Stolitsa, that sanctions against Russia are geopolitical games and we should try to improve this situation somehow. What is your position as future Prime Minister on sanctions against Russia? They are undoubtedly difficult to bear for agriculture, but are they still considered an important component of Estonia's security policy? This isn't a game. This is serious, actually.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U61	Thank you. I totally agree that this is not a game. I think that Estonia is taking a very clear step towards these sanctions with our European Union partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U62	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U63	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. First of all, my colleague, I wish strength and success in the new job if we vote this way. However, I come back to the question that my colleague Herkel asked about. It was a husband's tax return on collective declaration. You said at the beginning of your presentation that the population crisis is one of the most burning problems in Estonia that the new government will definitely want to address. I assume that all government parties agree that a strong family is the key to resolving the population crisis. In this light, it can be said that the withdrawal of the spouse's joint declaration, firstly, sends out a very bad signal and, secondly, it also means a financial loss for families. If the argument was that this amount would get too high, then there could be some exception that this amount would remain the same as it is now. Whose proposal it was and what is this austerity...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U64	Dear colleague, one minute is foreseen for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U65	Why did it work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U66	Dear Martin! Indeed, there was a point on the table that, if the income tax-free minimum for one member of the family was 500 euros, would there not be another amount for another member of the family in the case of a joint declaration? These discussions were very numerous, but it was basic for us to have a strong increase in the tax-free minimum. That's point one. Point two is to keep more money in people's hands. And point three is, of course, what I said when I answered one question: we did not just make this coalition agreement on a promise basis. We always had a table of the country's budgetary strategy, not only in 2017, but also in 2018, 2019 and 2020. It is clear that the tax reform is very important, but the coalition partners see the sources of cover very differently. You can't deny that. As I said to Mr Herkel, in any case EUR 500 is higher than the income tax-free minimum rate of 170 + 170, which represents a total of EUR 340. But, of course, you can still think about it. I'm not denying it at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U67	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U68	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! It is very sympathetic that one of the goals of the new government is to improve the demographic situation. As far as I know, this has also been the goal of all previous governments. However, when I look at the table of the sources of coverage of your promises, I see that the parental benefit is intended to cover other costs of EUR 10 million each year, amounting to a total of EUR 30 million. What is the basis for such projections? Are you expecting a decrease in the number of children, or do you think that fathers are not active parents, or that there is another reason for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U69	Thank you. This is a very important issue. Overall, I think that we need to make the entire labour market, including working during the period of parental benefit, more flexible. I don't think there's a stump idea that someone's sitting at home automatically in this 15-month period. On the contrary, there may be a time at home and a time at work. This will certainly encourage more active participation of children's mothers in the labour market. Where's that $10 million coming from? We all know that it is not the case in the state budget that if 10 million costs are reduced somewhere, it will automatically go somewhere else. It's not like that. In this table, we have a large number of social issues to support the growth of children, whether it be teachers' wage increases or the same school lunch. The idea is, in general, to make the system more flexible and allow for faster work. However, if a desire arises at one point, we should be able to stay home again. However, this amount is purely due to the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U70	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U71	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I will continue with the previous questioner about the same subject. You talked about solving population problems, and of course I am pleased about that too. But we have a very sharp question about children's rich families. I think they're getting hit pretty hard. The possibility of submitting a joint tax return will be lost, the need-based family allowance will be abolished at all, and the taxation of large cars will certainly hit families that are rich in children. How should such steps help these families?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U72	Thank you, very important question. First of all, I will explain the need-based withdrawal of family allowances, which you mentioned. If you look at our budget table, you can see that it is compensated by improving our livelihood system. Firstly, there is a reduction in red tape: there is no need for a separate application now. Secondly, the coalition that is being created would like to send a message that, from the third child onwards, when coping becomes much more difficult for the family and the costs increase very clearly, we will raise child support from EUR 200 to EUR 300. I think this is the right direction. And I will also bring up, completely without jokes, the point I spoke of in reply to the previous question. Support should be given to a full family where both parents can choose between work and being at home with the child. The parental benefit system has been a very good thing in Estonia, but it needs to be changed a little. I'm sure it'll give you more certainty. So some examples of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U73	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U74	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Prime Minister-designate Jüri, a good colleague. I think a lot of political enthusiasts caught it with a lot of familiarity when they listened to a speech full of your promises. The current rhetoric has spoken of the stagnation of the previous government and coalition. The new coalition agreement reflects this in some way, as if all these things were new. I am referring here to a number of issues in the administration of the Minister for Education, Internal Affairs and also in the administration of the State Administration, which have been again strongly highlighted. Hopefully some of these plans will continue. My question, however, concerns citizenship policy. You pointed out, as a novel topic, that Estonian citizenship should be given to under 15-year-olds by naturalisation on the basis of an application from their parents. It's actually an old idea, there's nothing new about it. What is interesting is that the presidential candidate, Mailis Reps, spoke very supportively about double citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U75	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U76	Why did the new idea of double citizenship, supported by the Centre Party, not enter the new coalition treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U77	Thank you. First of all, of the important plans on which the good questioner said that I hope we will continue to do so. I have never said that the Reform Party does not have any good ideas. On the contrary, I thanked the party 17 years ago, and I have said several times that a lot of the right initiatives have been launched, including administrative reform. But it cannot be said that this coalition agreement will not bring any change. Still brings, and a lot of fundamental changes. I will start with the major tax reform that we will start on 1 January 2018. The difference is still very clear. So far, there has been a plan to move forward by raising the right minimum tax-free minimum by a few euros. I guess you've seen more of these calculations than I have, but sometimes I'm not wrong when I say it would be a human victory of about 2 euros a month. If you raise the tax-free minimum to EUR 500, it will automatically win EUR 62. It's still about 30 times the difference. I think this is a very important change in fiscal ideology. Now, the second thing I'm going to bring out, which I've already answered today. We are talking about bold changes in our excise and VAT policies. I recall some members of the Riigikogu who are involved in providing accommodation services. They have said very clearly, even in one coalition party, it has been said that it will hit the Estonian tourism sector very badly if this VAT rises from 9% to 14%. It's not coming. That's pretty sure. We will also lower the excise duty on diesel at the beginning of next year. I think this, too, will boost the economy. I have already pointed out this once, but it should be emphasised that earlier governments have not dared to make tax cuts in certain business sectors, whether it be social tax or income tax. We want to support, subsidise and give certain business sectors the opportunity to achieve greater productivity. The government coalition has foreseen EUR 20 million for this purpose. And now that you said nothing would change. If I am not mistaken, we have a shipping council and it has been a topic for years that it is embarrassing for Estonia, as a sea state, that no cargo ships are flying the flag of Estonia. We dare make a change there and give the opportunity to bring cargo ships under the Estonian flag. This is a very clear change in business policy. I also mention the business account and the tax changes of the self-employed. There was also the question of citizenship. This is very clearly linked to the problem that in families where the parents were born in Estonia before 20 August 1991 and are, say, the owner of a grey passport and one red passport, or the owner of a Russian Federation passport, the child really does not receive Estonian citizenship. We think we should, and that's gonna change. If there are a family with, for example, two owners of the Russian Federation passport, then their child born in Estonia should, in our opinion, be granted Estonian citizenship. Your question was 14 to 15 seconds longer than promised, and I am sorry that I, in turn, have now given a very long answer. Double citizenship, which you also asked about, is an important issue. The current government coalition does not see that this problem can be resolved. The situation is exactly what it is, there will be no change here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U78	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U79	Thank you, good manager. Good candidate for Prime Minister! So far, it has been that when the opposition comes up with the bill, the coalition will kill it or, in a little while, it will come up with the same bill. Now, I got it right, in the newer days, during your driving, they don't make that kind of roller again, even though some partners are old-fashioned and old-fashioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U80	Thank you for that question. In my opinion, this is a very important change in the direction of political culture. The principle that the wrong man must not do the right thing must not apply. Yeah, that has to change. The Government of the Republic will never be able to tell the Riigikogu, the legislative assembly, in advance how you must vote. The Government of the Republic will always be able to state its position. As I said, if one of the draft laws or one of the principles can be supported, because the content is correct and the budget also makes it possible, then it must be supported. For ten years in this Chamber, I have felt the fear that if one opposition party initiates the bill and it turns into a third reading, if the Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu strikes this hammer, into a law, then maybe they get those votes right away. In fact, that is not the case. We must rely on our personal experience to change this principle. I understand I'm comparing incomparables, but I'm comparing my term of office here to that of the mayor of Tallinn. Then it also happened that the opposition brought the proposal to the city council, and the city government did not say that we would not support it. There were proposals that we supported, and it was done. So, yes, good Peter, at least you got my point right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U81	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Prime Minister, a good opposition partner so far! Estonia is a country with low levels of corruption in international ratings. At the same time, we know that this is largely the result of well-developed jock schemes. One example of the yokk scheme is the Ermamaa issue that has recently upset the population. A great scandal just broke out in our fleet, too, as large quantities of salasi cigarettes and alcohol were found on board a mine ship called Sakala. This is undoubtedly an extremely embarrassing case, but unfortunately, I have already heard the news of such a beautiful jock scheme that if this collection is shared between the crew members of the ship, it is as if criminal charges cannot be brought. My question to you is whether your government will adopt a new, different and more honest political culture and will end the jock-shaping process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U83	Thank you. I can't imagine any of the 101 politicians sitting in this Chamber saying that some kind of jock scheme is acceptable or even good. It is not enough that it is legally correct, that it must, in essence, be right and that it must also look right. I do not want to be specific, but with the presidents of the Republic of Estonia who have resigned, there are still complex questions. I think it would be respectable if the President of Estonia had one summer or rural place where he would welcome his guests and which belongs to the Estonian state. If the President's term of office has expired, he would also cease to use it. Something like that was used by President Lennart Meril in Paslepa in Läänemaa. It's sold now. But I think that such a solution would take these issues off the agenda. The jock schematics are definitely not justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U84	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U85	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister, first of all, the compliments of the government's conclusion of the negotiations. This agreement, which you signed today and which is now public, is, in fact, one that you will continue with the plans of the Government of Taavi Rõivas. But, as has been said here before, there is something that I really cannot agree with. One of the major innovations that the Central Party government brings is the transformation of the tax system into a rather complex mess of stages. My question is how do you intend to motivate entrepreneurs to create high-wage and higher value-added jobs in Estonia, when the signal to top specialists is that the higher the value-added they create, the more the state takes away from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U86	Thank you. If we come to the beginning of this issue, the coalition agreement will find the actions launched by all prime ministers and governments, which we will develop further. I cannot imagine that we will not take further steps, for example, very clearly in areas relating to the living environment. But true, there are certain paradigm changes in the treaty. You rightly pointed out the problems of entrepreneurship. What is the bad thing that prevents the Estonian economy from moving forward? First, the tax system. I don't quite understand how the planned changes will cost the employer more. On the contrary, I think that employers will have more confidence that employees will continue to work for them because they will be able to earn higher net revenues. This is very important, as business professionals and other economic professionals have clearly pointed out. We very much want net income to increase in this particular decile of low-wage earners. In fact, the income of people who receive the average salary in Estonia is also increasing. Cops, teachers, and rescuers go down there, and that's also very important. Now for this paradigm change. After all, such messages and changes are also important, say, in the external atmosphere. By textual change, I mean that it is very bad when the so-called sub-city and the top-city do not cooperate at all and there is a strong confrontation all the time. Cooperation would take us much better. I remember 2006 when the capital and Toompea needed to cooperate. It was connected to certain buildings on Kadriorg Weizenberg Street. These buildings belonged to the state and the state had its own interests at stake. In Tallinn's Old Town, however, there is a great children's theater, puppet theatre, next to which there was a building where the state wanted to build a doll museum. And then it was necessary to change the buildings: Tallinn wanted the buildings on Weizenberg Street to transfer the headquarters of Kadriorg Park there, and the state wanted the house of the doll museum. Worked together, and both things work. I think that's a good example. In the case of Harju Street, where the ruins had to be restored, there was no good cooperation. It was a country of strawberry, for which the country and the sub-city did not reach an agreement. Now it is necessary to renovate the city hall as a conference centre, to make sure that the Estonian tourism sector wins. It's very important. There are a lot of decent hotels near the city hall, if I'm not mistaken, including two Tallinks. So this change of direction is actually very important. On job creation, I have already answered so many times that I do not want to repeat myself and waste your time. But our agreement includes business accounts and the simplification of the work of the self-employed, with certain differences for companies that are able and willing to increase their production potential. So there are pretty strong signals here for the business sector. And what's to deny, you good questioner, you know very well that the best tourism professionals in this room are in the Reform Party Group. They will probably make it very clear that the exclusion of VAT increases in accommodation establishments is a strong positive signal in the field of tourism.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U87	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U88	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! It was nice to hear from you a number of idealistic views about the future. I have a question for you concerning both the past and the future, to which you have answered more or less. My question once again concerns the Centre Party's cooperation with President Putin's party, the Unified Russia. I'd ask like that. However, this allegedly frozen cooperation protocol is currently in force. What changes do we need for the protocol to be released from this frozen state? Are these fundamental political changes in Russia or, for example, the change of Russian President against a more European leader or something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U89	Thank you. Of course, relations between our two countries will also improve if relations between the European Union and Russia improve. I think it might lead to the ending of this frozen state, if you use your expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U90	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! There are indeed many good and right things in the new coalition agreement that will probably benefit the whole of Estonia. But such good and right things have been in coalition contracts before. However, on which I did not find a word, Estonian communities are outside Estonia. Do you have any new messages for them? Is the concept of diaspora subject to rethinking in its transformation? Does the capacity of the diaspora also be supported by was it intended to do so? Maybe you can explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U92	Thank you. It is still meant for communities living outside Estonia, and not only through this prism, that thousands of people who have left Estonia and are working abroad would come back to Estonia, which we probably want first and foremost. Of course, we need to support those communities whose roots are already abroad, but I do not see that there should be a very significant change here. They simply need to be supported further, but there will certainly not be any cardinal changes in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U93	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ratas! On the contrary, I congratulate you on this achievement that, unlike the previous chairman of the Central Party, who for some 20 years talked about progressive income tax, but did not achieve anything, in a few weeks, you have come to the conclusion that it has been included in the coalition agreement. But my question is, how could you make it clear to Margus Tsahkna that this is not progressive income tax, even though all specialists say it is. Is this part of the tax still being reviewed? Is there any hope that this thing will be made simpler, clearer, and called the right name?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U95	Thank you. In terms of political experience, I am a younger politician than you, Honourable Herkel, but I do understand with your trick the question of Margus Tsahkna and IRL. I'll start with the fact that I've never had this kind of negotiation before. That's point one. Point two is that I recognise both Mr Ossinovski and Mr Tsahkna, both the Social Democratic Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. I consider it very important that we really were able to speak very openly in these talks on all areas and topics. There was no political trickery. These were the actual meetings where the topics were seriously discussed. Of course, each party defended its positions. Do we want to change something more in the future in terms of taxes? I mean the Centre Party. Yes, of course we do. Can this be called graduated income tax? It is still an increase in the tax-free minimum to EUR 500. As I have already said, the people who are going to pay more in the so-called upper sector in the order of 20 to 30 euros each month, I believe that they are ready to contribute this money to a more coherent Estonian society. There is no direct reading of the progressive income tax here, but that is exactly what I believe the three parties came together to make a serious tax change.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U96	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U97	Good prime minister candidate, good bike! You answered my first question with a very quick handtip: you said it wasn't a contract, it was a protocol. You were also likely taught at the Legal Institute that the contract could take different forms, it could also be concluded in the form of a protocol. And the Russian ambassador in Estonia calls it a protocol agreement between you. But that's not my current question. My second question is about the law of partnership. In the past, this was particularly close to the heart of the Social Democrats, but there are still no provisions for implementing the Cohabitation Act. There is no word about them in your coalition agreement, nor has there been any word in the negotiations. As an observer, it seems that the Social Democrats exchanged the provisions of the Cohabitation Act for soda tax. But I'd rather be interested that when it gets to this hall, what's your point of view? Should this abnormal situation be brought to an end because there is a law, but the implementing provisions do not apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U98	Thank you. First of all, the Social Democrats, of course, put this issue on the table and there were discussions about it. So I certainly cannot say here that the social Democratic Party voters are also watching the transfer, that the SDE did not stand up for these principles or that we did not discuss them. Yes, we did, and we discussed it very clearly. What's my position? I understand that these implementing provisions are a question of the Riigikogu, or legislative power, and I think that the legislative power must resolve this issue. It can't be that the executive power is going to write or dictate something to you. I still follow the principle that we have separation of powers and that in Estonia, legislative power is higher than executive power.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U99	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I know you as a man of my word and a good organizer, and you've spent quite a few days together. But there was a sentence in your speech where you promised a funeral allowance of EUR 250 for everyone, and somehow it seemed that the sentence had an emphasis on the word 'all'. What does that mean? I hope to survive your reign, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U101	Good Peep Aru! I'm gonna start by hoping I can give you a name. I've also had some very impressive times with you, even when we've been playing sports together. I think I can also say this in front of the honourable Riigikogu Chamber, that it was composed of XI. We were in a very difficult situation, we had lost a great deal. There was a basketball tournament like Keila Bucket in Keila, and it was you who threw in three three points in a row, put our team back in play, and we won. We don't know how long we've been given the days of our lives, that's what the almighty knows. But given your sporty lifestyle, I am sure that you and I hope that I, too, will see several more Estonian governments. Now for the funeral money. In fact, the emphasis was not on 'all', there are perhaps three emphasis points. One thing really is that the funeral allowance will come back. The second emphasis, in my opinion, is quite a sign: it is the solidarity of society. And the third emphasis, which I really did not mention, is that the payment of the funeral allowance will be specifically the responsibility of the local authorities. This, along with funding, because the point of our constitution is that when we give responsibilities to local authorities, we also have to give money to comply with them. The amount is around EUR 4 million per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U102	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U103	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Respectable prime minister candidate! Ten days ago, the Westerners had happy days. Jaanus Kariladis was to become a minister who will make a railway between Riisipere and Rohuküla for the 100th birthday of the Republic of Estonia. Now I don't think Jaanus is going to be a minister of the Kariladis, nor is there a word in the coalition agreement from the Rohuküla railway. Why are the West and indirectly the giants without the great public service that the people of Viljandimaa, Järvamaa, Raplamaa and Harjumaa have been using for years? Please tell the Westerners something about the railroad! Positive, I hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U104	Thank you! First of all, it's very sympathetic for me to use the section of Rice Family to the Rohuküla. I think that if the railroad ever hits Haapsalu again, and I support it to get there, it would actually have to go 10 kilometers from there to Rohuküla. As far as Mr Kariladi is concerned, I am convinced that his position will be very influential in the implementation of the new coalition agreement. He also raised the subject of the Grass Village Railroad when we had coalition negotiations. As I said, we are going to have such a larger public investment programme, to which we are going to allocate just over EUR 300 million. One of its main components is the construction of infrastructure, not only road infrastructure, but we have also talked about rail infrastructure. Whatever objects get in that letter, we haven't agreed. That's what we're gonna set up at the government table. But I don't dare say today that the family of Rice is down the railroad of Rohuküla.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U105	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U106	Thank you, Mr President. A good Prime Minister for the future! I am not asking you about what is in the coalition agreement, but I am asking you about what is not in the coalition agreement. And namely, as a fan of innovation and e-governance, I could not find a word about our e-governance development and e-residency programme, for example. There was a reference that you wanted to review something in the e-election system, and there was a reference that some improvements should be made to the e-health system, but that was your fairly large coalition agreement. What are your plans for the further development of the e-residency programme and the image of Estonia as an e-state outside Estonia, which I believe has been quite successful so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U107	Thank you for that question. You already mentioned the right thing. This is the amplification of e-Estonia, which is very clearly linked to the ICT programme in the order of EUR 10 million per year. I think we clearly need to amplify the information technology issue. During our Presidency of the European Union, this could be one of the issues that we are strongly putting on the table. I believe that you will help if we ask you for help on this matter. However, there are still issues in the IT area that we discussed, but did not really enter into the agreement. For example, school computer and information technology training was clearly on the table and this topic was marked off. As far as e-residency is concerned, why should this not be a measure to bring cargo ships under the Estonian flag? So we had these things on our desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U108	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! First of all, I am very pleased that Estonia has the hope of becoming a dignified and truly hardworking Prime Minister. At the same time, it is sad to see that there are no members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber from one power party. Well, that's understandable, isn't it? They're very embarrassing. To change your views 180 degrees in such a short time and join a party they've hated for years, it's still embarrassing. But now to my question. Last year, Marina Kaljurand, the foreign minister at the time, answered a question. The question concerned the Tartu Peace Treaty, its validity and the areas in Petserimaa and Jaanilinna. My question was whether these areas were still occupied. In addition to Estonia, the UN acknowledges that the Tartu Peace Treaty continues to apply. Marina Kaljurand didn't say a word about it. He said there were lawyers who could agree with me, but he can't say that. What is your view as the future new Prime Minister? If the Tartu Peace Treaty is still in force, is it 5.2% of Estonia's area occupied by the Russian Federation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U110	Thank you. First of all, I wouldn't be so hard on the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. We have been seriously discussing the coalition agreement, and they will certainly be monitoring this debate on computer or television right now. As far as your question is concerned, I myself remember your question to the Foreign Minister at the time. I believe that this could be presented to the new Foreign Minister. Was Tartu peace on the table in the negotiations on the coalition treaty? No, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U111	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U112	Thank you! Good candidate for Prime Minister! It was somewhat encouraging to hear from you today that you are committed to European values and that you also bowed down to those who voted for the restoration of Estonian independence on 20 August. However, it directs me to ask that when the Riigikogu launched a statement '75 years since the June deportation' in June this year, a large number of your party associates did not take a stand. Does this mean that they look differently at the tragic events of history, or what is the position of the new coalition in these matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U113	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for the words you said about 20 August. Yeah, my line sounded like, "I'm very high 20. The contributions of the members of the August Club who have been represented in all the Riigikogu configurations. ' Right now, in this Chamber of Riigikogu, I look into the eyes of only one gentleman who discusses something with his groupmate on the right hand. I mean, Mr. Amma, when we talk about this composition. The tragedy of deportation, however, has touched all Estonian families either a little further or more closely. Surely this is a very painful subject for our people. Yes, I understand what you asked for. You asked about this vote, where some members of the Centre Party Group did not participate. We also had a debate in the group immediately after this vote, and I believe that these complex issues have been clarified and that different decisions will be taken in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U114	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to my first question. I did not ask whether the tax reduction on dividends was good or bad, I asked how 100 million additional income could be obtained from the tax reduction. But since I didn't get the answer, and since you have been full of contradictions in this table of cover sources at all, I have such a request that you may also make available to the Riigikogu the basics, assumptions and calculations of these figures. But my second question is what is the message of the new government union for those people who have learned to be a doctor or an engineer and whose salary is slightly higher than the average. They lose their tax-free minimum. And if these people happen to be family people who get sweeter for yogurt and juice, and if they've taken a mortgage, they're gonna lose a lot. What is your message to these people? Is your only message that success is not favored and that they need to show more solidarity with society?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U116	Thank you for this very important question. First of all, as far as this table is concerned, I said before I congratulated you that I would not compete here with Mr Sõerdi on tax matters at all. Certainly, if you give me the authority today and the new government will be appointed, I will also send a request to the Minister of Finance that he and you review the cost-benefit table once again. No worthy specialist is too much, of course, and I'm sure you're a worthy specialist. Now, to doctors and engineers, I could answer for a very long time, but since you referred to specific sugar drinks in your question, I am simply saying that the basic position of doctors has been that children should eat healthier and drink less carbonated lemonade. I also congratulate the President of the Riigikogu, who runs the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, that there is not, for example, Fantat or Sprite or Coca-Cola on this remote control, but water. So the first message for doctors is: it is good for children to drink drinks with less sugar content. There's really going to be an extra fee for them. Another thing that is certainly important to doctors is that alcohol consumption is reduced. On the one hand, we have foreseen an increase in the rate of excise duty on beer, fermented drink and also wine, but on the other, the principle that we must limit alcohol advertising also applies. It's very clearly written here in this document. I think these are three objectives. Since you got very detailed, I also answered in very detailed terms. I do not know why the previous coalitions did not want to increase excise duty on beer; rather, they have diligently increased the excise duty on strong alcohol, which is not the wrong direction either. If we take a litre or a half litre bottle, it is not right that the excise duty on beer is different from the excise duty on strong alcohol. That's the message.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U117	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U118	Thank you, good Chairman. Good candidate! My question concerns the reform of the state. You have promised to reduce the costs of public administration and increase publicity, transparency, etc. Does the state reform also affect the "heads" themselves? I mean the government. Are we planning on losing the double minister's seats? I mean the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs. It has also come through the media that it is planned to set up a special committee for the Riigikogu to discuss state reform. What is the essence of this and what objectives have you set?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U119	Thank you. Whether to set up this committee of problems with the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu decides that. In my opinion, it would be necessary for this legislative body to be a committee of concern to deal with the analysis of state reform. What does this plan really mean? I also said in my report that we certainly do not want to hit all the positions or specialties with one stick. I do not think that the reform of the state should concern, for example, doctors and other health professionals. On the contrary, I will give you an example or two, if you will. Surely some political parties believe that reform must be carried out everywhere and that the number of people must be reduced everywhere. However, we say that in the area of internal security, for example, we want to put regional police forces back on the table. We have planned to allocate money so that about 50 people can do their job on the spot. That's how they know the community best. I will certainly also bring out the measure that I think the police have been proposing for years. This is an increase in the police's rapid response capability. Currently, 103 people do this work, but it is strongly linked to the centres in the north and south of the country. This number should be increased by at least 97 people and brought to 200. So state reform certainly does not mean that we say to each institution that you concentrate 5% of your employees or cut 5% of your operating costs. It can't be like that. This must certainly be done very clearly on the rural governments. When it comes to ministries, I think that the portfolio of the Minister of Enterprise in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is a little too small, one could foresee increasing it. In the fields of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs, however, we generally move forward with the current division of labour. I'm sure we'll review this distribution once more when we get this chance, but the general principles are like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U120	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U121	Thank you. The two important men who are in front of it, one sitting, the other standing, are both summer giants. Since 2014, when the then Minister of Economic Affairs decided to organise ferry traffic, there has been a lot of confusion about this. However, the whole connection with the islands is extremely important to both the people living there and the guests. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U122	Thank you. It's really important, and not just for summer islanders, muffins, or giants. This is also very important for the local community, especially in terms of entrepreneurship, in terms of mobility of means of transport, must be stable and operational, there must be a clear schedule. The new coalition plans, on the one hand, to ensure that we have new ferry ships between Rohuküla and Heltermaa and Virtsu and Kuivastu as soon as possible. It's an ongoing issue. Secondly, I am convinced that to be on the dock in 2016 or 2017 in any of these four ports and to wait four, five or six hours for the ferry is not appropriate. What can be done to prevent it from happening? There is only one way to do this: to increase funding so that the ferry ships move more often and, if necessary, to deepen the channel that was deepened some time ago. So the subject is very seriously on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U123	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good candidate for Prime Minister! You will allow the coalition agreement to promote good neighbourly relations throughout our region, which is to be welcomed. We understand that the crisis of good neighbourly relations in this region only has relations with one country, it is the Russian Federation. How do you intend to develop good neighbourly relations with the Russian Federation in the current security reality? We all understand that these good neighbourly relations do not depend in the slightest on the Prime Minister of Estonia, but only on whether Russia behaves in such a way that they comply with international law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U125	Thank you, Mr. Milling. I understand very clearly that if I want to answer you politically correctly, I can say one sentence here, and that is it. But since I respect you very much and understand the serious content of this question, I will take a longer answer. What are good neighbourly relationships? I guess they're connected to the economy in our room, to some extent to culture, but very strongly to the economy. I think one example of good neighbourly relations is what the Estonian National Opera did about a month ago: there was an exchange of theatres in the sense that some played their performances in Moscow, others performed their performances in Tallinn. In the economic sector, of course, we need better relations in our region, which is no secret. All Estonian entrepreneurs say this, especially south-eastern Estonian entrepreneurs. To some extent, Finland is better off with these relations now than Estonia. So economic relations first and foremost.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U126	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U127	Thank you. Good George! First of all, I wish you strength in your new office if this government should be formed. But I'm gonna ask you about something like this. I know you as a very law-abiding person. You are probably also aware that there is a bill in the proceedings of the Riigikogu that wishes to eliminate the fall in social tax from next year. It is known that there should be six months between the adoption of tax laws and their entry into force. I saw from the table of sources of government coverage that it was planned to cancel this fall next year, which means EUR 40 million to the Treasury. Previously, social tax was to be reduced from 1 January 2017. Returning to compliance, I ask you, as Prime Minister, if you support making tax changes with such short notice. If so, what is the justification for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U128	Thank you very much for this question. Yes, we have agreed that the fall in social security contributions, the half-per cent that should have come into force since 1 January, will not actually help any entrepreneur. In general terms, the system cannot be such that a rate of 32.5% is valid for one year or six months and then 33% is applicable. We have foreseen a much more comprehensive social tax measure, which I have presented here several times about this 20 million. I have also thoroughly examined the legal side of this decision and, if I may, I will read it. Maybe it hasn't gotten to your desk. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice's assessment. The Chancellor of Justice says that the state may decide to change the promise given in time to lower the social tax rate, if there are compelling reasons for doing so. Since it was not possible for the Chancellor of Justice to determine, by the deadline for replying to our letter, whether compelling reasons existed for amending the regulation setting the fixed-term social tax rate, the Chancellor of Justice could not take a single position. The second position on this amendment to the social tax is expressed in a letter signed in mid-November, 17 November. It is signed by the Minister of Justice. It states that it can be considered that maintaining the existing tax rate in the day-to-day operations of undertakings does not require major restructuring, rather the contrary. It is the application of a lower tax rate that would require changes to certain accounting programmes. The Minister also says that it must also be taken into account that, if a six-month period were to be applied to the reversal of the tax reduction, this solution would lead to a double burden on economic operators until it enters into force. Again, reference is made to the need for double adjustment of accounting programmes at first, based on reductions and then increases. These are the two legal positions. In essence, however, we are of the opinion that this half-per cent tax change should not be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U129	And now Laine Randjärv will ask his question in less than one minute. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U130	Thank you very much. Interestingly, I'm being made a point, while several other questioners have crossed the one-minute limit. But I'm glad you're still paying attention to me. Thank you very much. Good George! Now I ask about culture and be good, answer on cultural issues, not to read all the other points in the coalition agreement that can be read there. The Estonian National Opera was mentioned in the previous answer, and I want to ask you about this theatre. From your speech, I heard that the state is going to support the renovation of City Hall with investments. City Hall is known to be a local government institution. It has also been said that the Estonian National Opera should be built with this renewed house. What position do you and the new coalition have on this matter? It has been unanimously approved by the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U131	Thank you. I think we want to discuss this point that you have approved. I know these stories about taking the Estonian National Opera to Linnahall, I also remember the proposal to extend the theatre building to the Pärnu highway. I do not think that Linnahall is related only to the municipality of the capital; it is very clearly linked to the tourism sector in Estonia as a whole, including the conference tourism sector. It has to be admitted that there is no specific answer to the question of the Estonian National Opera at the moment. This should be discussed and wondered if it is possible to connect these two buildings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U132	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! The OECD has repeatedly addressed issues related to e-elections and related security risks. You mentioned that the new government is going to make some changes in this area as well. Why don't you be so kind as to introduce them to us a little bit more closely?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U134	Thank you. Really, the e-elections were very clearly on the table. Basically, our view is that the e-election period should not be so long. That was one point of view. We have agreed to equate the e-voting period with the pre-voting period in the station of residence. On the other hand, we don't think it's right to have an e-voice changed, I don't know, a hundred or ten or five times. All right, once you can change it, it is understandable, but we want to set a very clear limit if it is legally and technically possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U135	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U136	Good manager! Good candidate for Prime Minister! I am glad to see that there is indeed one positive element in this coalition agreement. In particular, I am pleased that, while maintaining consistency, the plan to establish a memorial for the victims of communism in Maarjamäe and to establish an international centre for communism crimes is supported. Both are important to me and certainly to many other people in Estonia. First of all, do you have a time plan when this memorial will be completed? Is the deadline still 2018? And would you mind telling me a little bit about this international center? I suggest that you call it an international Communist crime investigation centre, otherwise it might look the wrong way. What kind of center would that be? And is it going to be a national agency, and where is it going to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U137	Thank you. You know better than that, we have a number of non-profits working on this subject right now. And it's reasonable that non-profits can definitely consolidate and continue to operate. At the same time, there is also the possibility of public funding. Now for that memorial you asked about. It has not yet been agreed by what date it will be, it has been agreed that we want to move forward with it. This also requires very clearly cooperation with local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U138	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U139	Thank you, good manager. Good candidate for Prime Minister! In agriculture, it stands out that among the seven most important activities is the support for breeding pigs. In Estonia, nearly 800 dairy cattle and just over 300 meat cattle are under performance control, but only 32 pig herds plus 52 supergolded boar stations. My question is this: how many companies apart from Viru Mölder OÜ will this two million be divided?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U140	Thank you. I can't say the number. It is within the competence of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Minister of Rural Affairs, and I trust them. I can't tell if that number is five, ten or fifteen. So I owe you an answer here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U141	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! There was talk of a pension formula that reduced the share of the wage component. I imagine this proposal has already been on the expert table. Perhaps you are enlightening the people of Estonia, especially our many pensioners, whether this formula has already been written or is simply intended to reduce the proportion of this component?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U143	Thank you. It is a general principle to change the proportion of the two components. Is the formula written down? No, the formula hasn't been written.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U144	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U145	Thank you. A good fellow, Mr. Prime Minister's candidate! A questioner mentioned a moment ago the establishment of a memorial for the victims of communism, and that is certainly important to conclude. The Reform Party will definitely support you in this. But my question concerns Russian-speaking upper secondary schools. I am aware of one of the comments made by the government union agreement that the government led by the Central Party has a plan to reverse the transition to Estonian-language education in three Russian-speaking gymnasiums and to carry out an exceptional pilot project in these three gymnasiums. Have you and your three partners agreed to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U146	Thank you. We have even agreed that we would like to carry out such a pilot project in four secondary schools. One of them stays in Ida-Virumaa and three remain in the capital. However, it is also ideologically wrong to raise a question. Sorry to say so, but it is entirely wrong to say that we wish to reverse the teaching of Estonian. We do not want this and this has not been agreed. On the contrary, the direction is straight ahead, and I would say that we wish to give more gas to learning the Estonian language in a good way. Those schools where this pilot project is implemented will be obliged to ensure that the language level of young people graduating from upper secondary school does not have to comply with the requirements of B2, but with the requirements of C1, which are more stringent. We have agreed with three partners that the state should lend a hand to this pilot project. It's in financial terms to help you find better teachers and use better textbooks and workbooks. So it's a deal. However, the pilot project itself means that learning the Estonian language must become more substantive, even more serious and even more extensive. The general principle is that students in these schools must be able to knock on the doors of Estonian universities, take entrance examinations and go to higher education institutions in Tallinn, Tartu or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U147	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I have to admit, I was looking for a word in your agreement, but I couldn't find it. I'm interested in lifelong learning, adult education. As we know, our demographic situation is what it is. Older people need to stay in the labour market longer and longer. However, the number of people who complement themselves and participate in lifelong learning is not high. Can you explain what your plans for lifelong learning are for the development of adult learning? Have you just missed it or did you not consider it important?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U149	Thank you. It cannot be said that it has been overlooked or that we do not consider it important. We still consider it important and there was a lot of talk about lifelong learning, for example on the subject of the acquisition of a profession. So I think this is the right direction. We did not exactly write plans in this area into a coalition agreement, but that does not mean that this is something of little importance. When we spoke about vocational training, we actually touched on this subject, so it was under discussion. It was also under discussion in the sense that adult education would be linked not only to learning but also to the private sector, to actual internships, to the real need. The subject was on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U150	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! The directions for boosting and developing R &amp; D are very correct. One of these is the ratio of basic and competitive funding to 50: 50. This, of course, means a fundamental change in the country's budgetary strategy in order to bring additional money there. But, of course, it is even more important to involve the private sector there, which we have been talking about for years. Does the government coalition now have any new, more modern means of fulfilling this commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U152	Thank you. It is the same private sector aspect that I have already mentioned, and it is clearly there as an objective: private sector involvement to boost R &amp; D. As far as the state's budgetary strategy is concerned, we in the Riigikogu all know how long the RES, or state's budget strategy, will last. The new coalition had 11 to 12 days, but the country's budget strategy is being made, I dare say, three, four or five months. It wasn't our intention to do that. But does this topic need to be better reflected next year? Yes, it does.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U153	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U154	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Respectable prime minister candidate! You have rightly received some praise today. I want to praise you, too. I liked the most of your speech in the sentence where you said that you wanted a new political culture in this sense, that the 'wrong man' could say the right things, in other words, the opposition group could raise the right problems and initiate worthy drafts. Against this background, however, I do not understand why there is so little talk about democracy in the coalition agreement. I am thinking here, for example, of the so-called 'two-chair law' and of the open lists, which, as far as I know, were said more about during the coalition negotiations. Why didn't you get the result? Didn't that seem to be the most important thing in the end, or couldn't we reach an agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U155	Thank you. The information is correct. All the topics you mentioned were discussed. Perhaps the clearest agreement was made on the elections to the Riigikogu. The elections of the Riigikogu could be the elections that are subject to certain volume restrictions in Estonia. Are they related to the financial volume or the number of minutes on television, it still has to be agreed. But there were clear restrictions in the Riigikogu elections. Local elections were excluded because it is quite difficult to determine how many political parties have lists in local governments at all. And how do we regulate it in the case of electoral alliances, how do we limit it? The table also had the so-called two-chair law and open lists. It is true that the three parties have slightly different positions, and that is why these issues did not come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U156	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U157	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I shall return to my question before it. I should like to mention in advance that I really do not care what went into the coalition agreement or whether or not this topic was discussed in this connection. I am interested in your opinion as a possible new head of government, the opinion of a person who coordinates the work of the government, the work of various ministries and ministers. I am still very interested in the view of the future Prime Minister of Estonia: is the town of Jaani in Petserimaa and Narva still occupied?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U158	Thank you. My position on the issue of Tartu peace is very respectful. That's the short answer. I do not know whether the good questioner will or will not allow, but I would add an opinion on the democratic package. We have clearly stated that a change is needed in the election of the President, precisely in terms of administrative reform. That's what I'm gonna tell you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U159	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U160	The right man knows he's saying the right thing. As a romantic person, it is very difficult for me to ask a specific question, but I will try to do so. I ask very specifically: the Administrative Reform Act contains certain numbers and criteria: will they remain the same? Is that a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U162	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U163	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! The public has been seriously upset by a scandalous experiment at a school, and I think this irritation is still growing. In fact, eighth grade students were required to read Kaur Kender's obscene book 'Check out'. And what is most amazing: the officials of the Ministry of Education are of the opinion that it is very good, it is very nice and they encourage teachers to approach the choice of compulsory literature creatively. I conclude that we could also begin to bless each other in this Chamber with four letters of foolish words that are not generally used. In your government, will such a creative approach continue, or will you take a position in this regard that is somewhat more common sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U164	Thank you. The creative approach is, in general, always positive, but it is not a question of whether or not to approach it creatively. The question is in a particular book of compulsory literature. The Government of the Republic is hardly going to write down what may be included in the list of mandatory literature and which should not be included, for example, in the list of Pippi Longstockings or not. But I am sure that our debate will also be listened carefully to by the future Minister for Education and Science, and I promise that I will pass on your request to him once he has been appointed. I ask him to pay attention to this question in his first week of work, to familiarise himself with the matter and to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U165	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U166	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! The main meeting of the Theatre Association was held today, where the salaries of the people of the Theatre Association were discussed sharply, as well as the salaries of cultural workers in general. For the time being, the wage increases that have been allocated will only be sufficient to raise the minimum wage. All upper steps remain intact. Does the new coalition intend to raise wages in the cultural field as a whole so that the Culture 2020 development plan can be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U167	Thank you, Mr. Lutsepp. In the context of this development plan, I owe you an answer. The government union that is being created has its own plan, including budget figures for raising the wages of cultural workers: 10 million in 2018, 14 million in 2019, 14 million in 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U168	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U169	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! When you answered one question, you also touched gently on the issue of return migration. I would like to make it clear whether you had some further discussion on how to tackle the problem of low return migration. Is it encouraged by some kind of tax relief or so-called "residence benefits" or by some sort of third-fourth measure? What are the incentives we can really use to lure our people back? It would certainly be much cheaper than bringing foreign workers to Estonia, which is always spoken about. We don't have enough hands to work, but at the same time, good people, young families, are scattered around the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U170	Thank you, Mr. Bridge! I dare say that on these issues we are in the same party as you, quite frankly right now. And we dealt with this issue several times. There was talk about what you mentioned, housing or building a housing fund. I think that's a problem. If young families, such as doctors or other medical workers, teachers or why not domestic security workers want to come back to Estonia from temporary work at the border and just go to the countryside, then the local government should be able to help them find a place of residence in cooperation with the state. The problem was on the table, and there is a solution. The second topic is that quite often when people return from abroad to work in Estonia, their problems are very common: where my child goes to kindergarten, whether or not the local government helps or does not help to get a place in kindergarten. Those questions were also on the table. In general, I agree with you that those people who have left work in Estonia are very, very welcome back here. After all, this is also the idea of our tax reform that people's net wages are higher than they are now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U171	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U172	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable performer! Since I am almost the last questioner, I would like to thank you for the answers that were meaningful in most of them. Only a few of you were embarrassed, such as Mr Madison's question. I have one question that makes me embarrassed. In fact, on 14 June, we in the Riigikogu approved the removal of the address in which we condemned the deportation of Estonian residents. You mentioned the intention of creating a memorial for the victims of communism. That's great, but I have a question about that. Some members of the Riigikogu, including Korb and Repinski, who are about to become ministers, refused to grant support to this appeal. I'm very embarrassed about this. Are such people suitable for ministerial office? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U173	Thank you for that question. First of all, I congratulate Mr Madison. He's got good questions, he's got sharp questions, and you have to ask them. I believe that we can continue to hold interesting debates here in one way or another. Now from the deportation application, which Mr Maruse asked about. We had a very serious discussion on these issues after this vote in the Group. If I had the opportunity to appoint ministerial candidates by the Centre Party, it is true that one of them became Mikhail Korb, to whom you referred in your question. The discussions I hold as party chairman with potential ministerial candidates are very fundamental. I ask them whether you are based on the fact that your actions must be free of corruption, whether you are based on the fact that you are maintaining Estonia's independence, whether you are based on the fact that you are doing everything for the good of the people of Estonia. Mikhail Korb also answered these questions: "Of course, he considers all this to be important. I trust him.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U174	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U175	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good candidate for Prime Minister! Four long hours is about to come up. Finally, one simple friendly question: how do you feel about leaving the opposition and leaving the Centre Party? What bothered you most during this long period of opposition, and what would your government create do differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U176	Thank you. To this question, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to devote the next three or four hours. There's a lot to talk about ten years. But I do not want to waste your time and I am just saying that what I have said several times was primarily disturbing, and that, if one party has received 20 seats in the Riigikogu and the trust and support of the people of Estonia and came to the House or the committees with their thoughts, then it has always come to the knowledge that we are running head-to-head against the post, that none of our ideas are good. In particular, it was disturbing. When, as a politician, I sometimes campaigned and tried to communicate with people on the streets or behind these doors, many said that you could not realise your programme. We support your party, we support your principles, but you cannot implement them. It really bothers me, too, that we paint some parties white and others black. We think that if we use this kind of political rhetoric, if we play a corner with certain parties and say that some are like that and others are like that, then we will win more votes. I think that all the parties represented here in the Riigikogu stand for Estonia. And an ex is also a personal problem that really bothers me today. Of course, I'd like another person to listen to me in this hall right now. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U177	Thank you, Prime candidate Jüri Ratas! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. A vote will follow. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the mandate of Prime Minister candidate Jüri Ratas to form a government. Please vote! There are 53 members of the Riigikogu, 33 against, 7 abstentions. Prime Ministerial candidate Jüri Ratas was authorised to form a government. [[Let's hear it.]] The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U178	Let's get back to the hearing. There are four questions on today's agenda. Since foreign minister Jürgen Ligi has to travel abroad, replying to the first question has proved impossible and it falls off the agenda. We will immediately go to the second inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Raivo Põldaru, Uno Kaskpeit and Arno Sild. The inquiry is about the policy of the prosecutor's office in punishing immigrants and is presented to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Martin Helme, the speaker on behalf of the inquisitors, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U179	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The excitement has gone over the hall, the population is scarce, but since a certain degree of continuity still exists, I will read out our group's question to the Minister of Justice. We have already made an inquiry on the same subject, it was for the Minister of the Interior. I remember the Minister of the Interior telling us that all questions must be addressed to the Minister of Justice. This concerns the Sudanese citizen Muhammad Ibrahim Uthmani, who entered Estonia illegally, nevertheless received asylum and a residence permit here, and has repeatedly encountered police interest in the violation of the law, and eventually attacked his co-worker. The prosecutor's office has completed all proceedings against him. How does the Minister comment that it seems to the private citizen that the prosecutor's office, led by the Minister, has applied the criminal code selectively according to the colour of the human skin and the political priorities of the government? What procedural procedures did the prosecutor's office apply before the case was closed? Who were the witnesses taken from, what was the content of their testimony? Perhaps, in essence, we want to know if there was an actual investigation. Has the person been assigned any obligations or burdens in connection with the arrangement procedure? Has he been subject to any conditions? How did the prosecutor's office decide that there was no public interest? Immigrant-related crimes are certainly subject to increased public attention in Estonia. The faction of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, 8100 members of the party and our 50,000 voters have a very high public interest in obtaining answers to these questions and this case. In several countries, asylum seekers or refugees are subject to expulsion if they have committed a crime or misdemeanour. Does the fact that the procedure was closed save this person from being expelled from Estonia now? Are there plans to abolish the status of this violent and refugee? If not, why not? The security guard affected by the incident, who carried out his duties, had to resign. Did the D.A. think the security guard was suspicious at any point? Was there any proceedings against him? If the victim loses his job, it's a double victory for the perpetrator. Does the Minister consider that this does not encourage people with refugee status to commit new crimes? How does the Minister of Justice explain to people the inadequacy of their own courts when the state allows perpetrators to act with impunity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U180	I ask the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Respectable Parliament! The prosecutor's office is in the area of administration of the Ministry of Justice, but I would like to stress that he is independent in the performance of his duties under the law and operates under the law. The official supervision of the prosecutor's office by the Ministry of Justice does not extend to the activities of the prosecutor's office in the planning of surveillance activities, pre-trial criminal proceedings and the representation of state charges in court. The prosecutors shall be independent in the performance of their duties and shall act solely on the basis of the law and in accordance with their own convictions. The prosecutor's office shall comply with the law and the law given under the law, including the general instructions of the Prosecutor General. The opening of criminal proceedings is mandatory if the circumstances of the crime appear. Criminal proceedings must be brought if, in accordance with § 202 of the Code of Criminal Procedure or other sections listed in the Code of Criminal Procedure, there is no basis to terminate criminal proceedings. The DA's office itself doesn't punish anyone. The prosecutor's office shall lead the pre-trial procedure, ensuring its legality and effectiveness, and shall be competent, inter alia, to close the proceedings where there is a legitimate basis for doing so. The penalty that may come as a criminal offence as a result of a conviction in court is the last and most difficult measure, the ultima ratio, the implementation of which is burdensome for both the punishable and the society. Nor is there always the resources or justification for reacting to every act with total rigour and thoroughness. Against this background, the legislator has provided that, in the event of a secondary offence, where the person suspected or accused of it is not guilty of a serious offence, he has made amends or has begun to remedy the damage caused by the offence and has paid for the costs of criminal proceedings or has committed himself to pay the costs and, if there is no public procedural interest in the continuation of criminal proceedings, the prosecutor's office may, with the consent of the suspect or accused person, request that the court terminate the criminal proceedings and, with the consent of the suspect or accused person, impose legally binding obligations (paying the costs, compensating the damage caused by the criminal offence, paying a fixed amount in the public interest for the benefit of the State's income or for the purpose of ad hoc use, carrying out public service, other legal possibilities). It's called 'outgoing procedure with an oportunity'. Where criminal proceedings are the subject of a secondary offence for which the special part of the Penal Code does not provide for a minimum penalty for imprisonment or provides for only a financial penalty as a penalty, the prosecutor's office may terminate the criminal proceedings on the same basis. As the heirs have pointed out, § 121 (1) of the Penal Code provides for a financial penalty for harming the health of another person, as well as for physical abuse that causes pain, or for imprisonment of up to one year without a minimum. Thus, the prosecutor's office has a legal basis for bringing the criminal proceedings to an end if the other conditions laid down in § 202 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are also met: in view of the circumstances of the act and the person, the guilty person is not guilty, the suspect or the accused person is prepared to compensate for the damage, there is no public interest in the proceedings and the obligations imposed have been fulfilled. In the event of failure to comply with the obligations, the court may, at the request of the prosecutor's office or of the prosecutor's office, reopen the criminal proceedings and may end with both conviction and acquittal. When assessing the absence of a public procedural interest, this interest should not be equated with public curiosity or the interest of the media, nor with the public's or a particular category's view of the particular case. The concept of public procedural interest has been clarified in the course of legal practice and by the general prosecutor's instructions for different types of crime. The violence provided for in § 121 (1) of the Penal Code is not one of those which, according to the general prosecutor's instructions, would require a public procedural interest. This guide does not refer to the status or background of the accused or perpetrated person, but to the nature of the crime. The Public Prosecutor's Office can't have any of its own punitive policies. It's only their duty to comply with the law. It is a question of whether foreigners who have committed crimes must bear their sentence in Estonia and whether it is justified for them to retain residence permits or other state-guaranteed benefits. I think the country should have a conservative attitude here. However, this issue can and must be resolved through a law that applies to everyone, not through special treatment on the basis of individual persons, their background and past. Moreover, we are talking about a matter as serious as the criminal policy of the country. A foreign national can already be subject to expulsion with a refusal of entry for a period of 10 years as an additional penalty for imprisonment. But here too, the law sets its limits. The Ministry of Justice analyses the possibilities of expanding the legal space on this issue. My answers to the specific questions are as follows: Firstly, as regards whether the prosecutor's office applies the law selectively, according to the colour of the human skin and the political priorities of the government, no, certainly not. Estonia is the rule of law and there is no selective application of the law in Estonia. The laws applied by the prosecutor's office apply equally to everyone under the Constitution, regardless of the colour of the human skin or any difference or status. Secondly, which procedural procedures were applied by the prosecutor's office before the case was closed and from whom were the statements taken, and what is the content of these certificates? The public prosecutor's office is obliged to collect evidence in pre-trial proceedings and to create other conditions for the procedure. I have no reason to believe that, in this case, statements from potential victims or witnesses were not made or that other circumstances had not been examined. The facts identified in the proceedings were sufficient to identify the conduct of the offence and the persons involved. If this were not the case, it would not have been possible to close the procedure with an oportunity, but the case would have been closed on another basis, for example by reference to § 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure or § 2001. However, the law limits the disclosure of specific procedural circumstances. Pre-trial information may be disclosed only with the permission of the prosecutor's office and to the extent specified by him and under the conditions laid down by law. Such a restriction is necessary, inter alia, in order to ensure an objective possibility of judicial proceedings if the suspect or accused person fails to comply with the obligations imposed on him or her when the case is closed and the criminal proceedings are renewed. If this information has been disclosed indiscriminately or selectively, someone may abuse this situation and thus prevent the right to triumph in judgment. It is also the case today that since no one has been convicted of a formal decision, it cannot be said of a criminal or sentenced person, not in terms of value, but under so-called passionately valid law. There is evidence which has been completed in the proceedings but is not publicly available. Thirdly, has the person been given any charges in connection with the arrangement procedure and has he been subject to any conditions? I repeat, since no one has been convicted of a formal decision, we cannot speak of a criminal or sentenced sentence. The rules on the application of opportunity provide that damages and costs must in any event be reimbursed. This will be complemented by an obligation of at least EUR 250, an obligation to perform community service, as a rule at least 60 hours, or an obligation to participate in a social programme. These obligations must normally be fulfilled within six months. When determining the type and amount of obligations, account shall be taken of the circumstances of the case and of the person concerned. Indeed, the specific circumstances to which I referred can only be disclosed with the permission of the prosecutor's office in accordance with specific procedural procedures. On what basis was the lack of public interest decided? I would like to stress once again that the general social interest in any of the problems of penal law is not simply a public interest in the sense of curiosity or general attention, but a public interest is in fact a legitimate interest in the legal order in how to implement the law. As I pointed out, the violence provided for in § 121 (1) of the Penal Code does not form part of those for which the public procedural interest would have been presumed. As far as immigrants are concerned, we must certainly be aware of the risks that uncontrolled immigration, the failure of immigrants to adapt and extremist movements may pose in our legal order. Preventing these risks at an early stage must be dealt with both here and there on the Estonian border. However, I would like to emphasise whether the status of a person, i.e. whether a person has refugee status, leads to a different procedure in the legal system. In terms of criminal law, no, it cannot lead to this because a refugee is a person who has been given a special legal status because he cannot return to his home. No criminal law, say, expected or presumable conclusions can be drawn from this. As far as expulsion is concerned, I will say once again that the Penal Code makes it possible to apply expulsion as an additional penalty. Since this person has not been punished in the sense of penal law, the procedure was closed with an oportunity, it could not actually be applied, even under theoretically valid law. As regards the status of a refugee and whether that person complies with the applicable rules on the international protection status of an alien, in the light of a specific case, the Minister of the Interior is competent to provide answers. Are there plans to abolish the status of a violent refugee? Here I am also referring to the Minister of the Interior, because this issue is not the competence of the departments of the Ministry of Justice. The following question of the heirs indicates that the security guard affected by the incident, who carried out his duties, had to resign. You're asking if the security guard was suspected at any point in time by the prosecutor's office and whether he was the subject of any related proceedings. I don't have any information on any of the investigative versions that the law enforcement authorities may have had on the case. I don't have the data. Even if the assumptions of the heirs were hypothetically true, these data could not be disclosed because of the restriction on the publication of pre-trial data already cited. The next question says that if the victim loses his job, this is a double victory for the perpetrator. The question is whether this, in my opinion, does not encourage people with refugee status to commit new crimes. I don't have any information on the circumstances in which the security guard left the job in connection with the incident. It's beyond my responsibility. Secondly, I would like to stress once again that we have no reason to claim that the Estonian legal order would treat people with refugee status differently from others when implementing the law, or any other people who are in the Estonian judicial area and who commit any acts. It's not like that. A separate question is whether our law should impose stricter restrictions on those who have committed crimes. Indeed, the position of the outgoing or already resigned government is difficult to say how these events run legally exactly In principle, there could be a general basis for not granting refugee status to those who committed crimes. This is also in line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, rather, the case-law developed by the European Court of Human Rights and other international instruments. There is a very intense and fruitful debate in European countries in this regard. I think that the conservative path chosen by Estonia has been well-founded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U182	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U183	Good minister! I think that one of the fundamental rights of a person, both in Estonia and everywhere else, is entitled to trial. In the Estonian Public Prosecutor's Office, it has happened very often, but it has happened repeatedly, that justice is being avoided by dragging things over, holding things down, thinking of new things, etc. Let's not go inside. Now the question. The Minister shall be responsible for disciplinary action, where appropriate, by the State Prosecutor General, the State Prosecutors and the Chief Prosecutors. How many times has it been used? Doesn't it seem to you that this mechanism doesn't work for some reason and that there is simply no administrative and legal control over the prosecutor's office? You can't postpone justice in front of the case, behind the other one. That kind of case is up even now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U184	Thank you. Certainly, the rule of law must not delay justice in the face of the matter, behind the other. Secondly, in how many cases has the Minister of Justice initiated the operational supervision of some prosecutors? I have not done so in my term of office. I do not recall practical examples from the past, even though I do not rule out this in the case of one prosecutor or another. However, I would like to stress that the supervision of the ministry is very precisely defined in the rule of law. This official supervision does not concern the substantive activities in which the prosecutor's office specifically provides for the enforcement of the law in relation to its tasks. It is certainly up to the prosecutor to choose the procedural tactics concerning the operations and the whole pre-trial corridor. According to the law, it is the duty of the prosecutor to do so in good faith, objectively, by applying and applying the law fairly, with the aim of one of the most central values on which the whole system of penal law is built: it is, in fact, the discovery of the truth. Truth is the basis on which a court can make choices. If the truth is not known or is partly known or false, then the determination of an inherently appropriate sanction has certainly been damaged. As regards the workload of the prosecutor's office, the question of political responsibility is a procedural resource. This is certainly an important issue. I am pleased that this year's budget created eight jobs for the prosecutor's office. It must have been the only government-made exception. No, the second exception was, however, in the tax area. The Tax and Customs Board also decided to grant an exception, although the overall trend is to pull the formations together.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U185	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U186	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We still hear amazing things here. We hear the Ministry doesn't know what the D.A.'s office is doing, and it's like he can't control, direct or supervise the D.A.'s office. We hear that the public interest is given a strange definition. We hear that the Minister does not receive data from the authorities to prepare the answers. Instead of telling us that he has no record of this or other matter, he should say, yes, he has asked for it, receive such an answer and pass it on to us. We hear that he does not have any control or a clear picture of the matter in his field. As far as the public interest is concerned, it is strange that this particular case does not qualify for public interest, while the person who threatened Prime Minister Rõivas on Facebook has gained the public interest and has been convicted and, in so doing, has been convicted on the basis of a rather hard section.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U187	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U188	The question is this: are you really convinced that Estonia is a rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U189	Thank you. The rule of law is the status of the state and I think that Estonia has that status. Estonia is the rule of law, which means that the law is implemented and implemented by law. As regards the fact that I do not provide procedural information or disclose these facts about this particular person, Muhammad Ibrahim Uthman, this is not permitted by the law adopted by the legislator. There are legitimate restrictions in these cases. If they are to be alleviated, there will certainly be risks to finding out the truth, but the legislator has set these frameworks. I certainly don't intend to ruin them. As far as the definition of public interest is concerned, I repeat that public interest is not furnished on a personal basis, whether a person has refugee status, is a Baltic German baron, comes from another country or is born in Estonia. That's not a question. The logic of the public interest is based on the surface of specific formations. Appreciate the act, not the person. This determines the logic of the public interest. This is not by curiosity, not by the fact that the subject is exciting or excites society from any aspect. Social excitement cannot be the basis for a punitive policy choice against a particular person. This would mean, figuratively speaking, framing penal policy through Internet clicks. The rule of law cannot afford that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U190	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U191	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. We have made two inquiries on this subject. One was for the Minister of the Interior, as I said in the introduction, the other was for you. Very funny, but when the Minister of the Interior answered the question half the time, he said the same thing about not asking him, but asking the other minister. Now we have another minister here who says that he cannot answer anything, but must ask the Minister of the Interior. So how do we find out anything? I am very upset that we have seven weeks for the Minister to understand the background and answers of the inquiry, but then the minister comes here and says he can't answer anything. Are you really saying that if you go to the prosecutor's office to ask for any information, the prosecutor's office will say no, they will not give them to the minister, because Parliament does not need to know this information? We were asking specific questions. What punishment is there for him? Does he have any charges? Did he get the ticket you were talking about? Did he pay any of the pain money they usually do? Does he, then, perform the socially useful work you spoke about, and are they specifically designated or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U192	Thank you. I've described a specific catalog. The answer is that the oportunity could not have been applied if the case had not complied with those requirements. I read this catalog to you. The information I can request and, in any case, issue to the public is subject to restrictions in the interests of the rule of law. No matter how much curiosity there is, there are restrictions on obtaining information on specific criminal proceedings. In the rule of law, I think these restrictions have been justified. I certainly didn't mean to say it was like a rubber ball. I understand your logic that the Minister of the Interior says the same thing, and I'm throwing the ball back. In particular, the question is that what concerns the status of this person as a refugee is indeed within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, but how the proceedings took place in the prosecutor's office is a matter of the Ministry of Justice. You asked for precise details, and I referred to a legal restriction, a restriction room. But I certainly understand this interest because, let's say, the public interest, in this case, in the sense of social interest, there is, of course, in these cases. You have to admit that. I certainly consider it necessary to provide all the information that the law allows me to obtain on this case to the inquisitors. If there is any additional information that might be of general interest, it is not in my interest to hold it in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U193	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U194	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Among our closest neighbours, for example, Sweden is a country where quite a number of cases are known when, in the case of a refugee or a crime committed by a migrant, legal nuances have been attempted to avoid trial, particularly because of fear of racism. For example, in Finland, our closest neighbour has a recommendation at times, but it is a total ban on not publishing information on the perpetrators of refugee crimes in crime statistics, as there are similar fears of racism. Is Estonia moving in the same direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U195	Thank you. Absolutely not. I do not know exactly the possible catalogue of penal statistics, but I suppose it is possible to obtain information on the offences committed by foreign beneficiaries of international protection. I don't see any logical reason to hide this information if it's possible to take it out with a cross question. As far as it is concerned, as if somewhere around the corner, the input is given that crimes involving refugees must not be investigated in order to avoid social tensions, the Estonian legal order does not allow this. In Estonia, the handling of alleged beating and threatening cases with the oportunity, whatever Estonian person is involved, is actually stopped thousands of times a year. The Estonian legal order does not allow the law to be applied differently to certain persons by the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is not possible in the same way, and this is a guarantee that it cannot be done the other way around. It cannot be said that certain persons are somehow outside the law, no matter what other social interest it should be required to pursue. It's not like that. The principle of legality applies in Estonia. It's a matter of principle. In many countries of the world, due to resource economy, there is no principle of legality, which means that the prosecutor's office can choose which case to initiate criminal proceedings and what is not. There is no such possibility in Estonia. It is quite clear that, unfortunately, there is no truth in all things, for example, when we talk about crimes against property. But we have the principle of legality, which means that if it is a case of formal criminality, the prosecutor's office has to initiate the case, because if he doesn't, then he has broken the law himself. There can be no selectivity in this case. There is a certain basis or folder to continue acting on. According to the principle of legality, such things are not possible in the Estonian legal order. In some other countries exceptions have been made to the principle of legality. In Estonia, there is a debate on whether to grant these exceptions, true enough, not for the purpose of designing refugee policy, but rather for the purpose of optimal use of resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U196	Dear colleague Igor Gräzin! In reply to an inquiry, a member of the Riigikogu can ask only one question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U197	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the most important thing was to identify the truth and assess what was done. At the same time, you argued in your last reply that there are thousands of such cases in Estonia, when someone has literally given a face to someone, has threatened to kill someone else, but he will not be punished for this. Does this mean that this is a perfectly normal practice, and in the future, anyone can go and beat someone up and threaten to kill you? And this is the triumph of justice, as you mentioned here earlier. Is that so, and is that how it's gonna be in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U198	No, that can't be, and that's not gonna happen in the future. The entire legal order is built on the need for individuals to behave in a manner that is lawful. If they do not behave in a manner of law, the State will use the law to protect the general peace of law. Secondly, have we had many cases of ending things with an oportunity? It has been, yes. There are different areas of activity. I would like to stress that in the event of repeated violence, the oportunity cannot be applied. This is a separate forum for criminal law debate on whether or not the oportunity is accepted by the judicial institute in our penal law. I think that here, in itself, the principle of remedial rights theory applies either to a criminal or to a person who has committed an act corresponding to the characteristics of the crime. The purpose of using opportunity is to achieve a legal peace. The question of the limits that the legislator has placed on opportunity is the place of criminal policy discussion. The final choice will be made by the legislator through the fitting-out of these criminal law institutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U199	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U200	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I understand from your answers that over a long period of years the Ministry of Justice has not intervened in the prosecution's office with the aim of controlling the prosecutors' activities and looking at it a little bit. Is it really that their actions are impeccable? Look at how long crimes are being investigated for months and years. Is it normal for the prosecutor's office to do so, and really there is no need to draw attention to it or interfere with prosecutors' activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U201	Because it takes months and years to process some things, in many cases it is objectively inevitable. Take, for example, a situation where there is an international element. International legal assistance alone, when information is collected abroad, takes a considerable amount of time. Of course, it would be ideal if the truth could be identified instantly and steps could be taken to restore the peace of law and the court could respond adequately. These things take time objectively in many cases. The question now is whether there is any deliberate delay, to which one previous speaker, the Honorable Professor, pointed out. I don't have any data on deliberate stretching. This should be regarded as a significant violation of the meaning of the law. You were wondering if the Justice Department would supervise the prosecution's office. I can tell you that this institute is in law. This supervision is carried out on the organisation of the prosecutor's office and in fact concerns the functioning of the prosecutor's office as an organisation, but not the core competence of the prosecutor's office, i.e. the representation of the state charge or the pursuit of surveillance. When we talk about the end of the rule of law, it certainly would mean that the Minister of Justice would start planning specific things, still asking for these things to be moved forward and other things to be taken backwards, in these things to do such surveillance and not to do surveillance activities in other matters, and to do so under the label of official supervision. This would certainly be a catastrophic experiment and would have extremely painful consequences for the credibility of society as a whole, to the values of defending the truth that are still impartial.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U202	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U203	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! As you mentioned, in the case of repeated infringements of the law, the oportunity cannot be used. Just as we have seen through the public media, this person, the Sudanese citizen Muhammad Ibrahim Uthmani, has repeatedly been in trouble with the police. Do you have any information on how many times he's been under investigation because of violations of law or other legal grounds? I'd like an explanation for that. Secondly, a brief question: as Minister of Justice, are you satisfied with how the prosecutor's office has dealt with this situation? Has it been done in accordance with good practice, and do you personally like this solution? Finally, happy forthcoming 98th anniversary of the Ministry of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U204	Thank you for that romantic ending, good questioner! Am I satisfied with this solution? During that time, when I have been in this position, I have also been asked whether I liked it, whether too little or too much was twisted. I have remembered Rein Lang, my pre-occupationalist, once said that the Minister of Justice is the only person in the country who, according to the logic of the rule of law, does not have the right to criticise either the judgments or the decisions taken by the procedural bodies. If he were to give that signal, there would seem to be a risk of influence. I think that in the rule of law, no branch of power is uncritical. In the rule of law, academically and ideologically, one person or another can always be dissatisfied with a decision, which is expected to be impartially made to fill in the law, but is still a decision made by people. But the important thing is that the rules of the game are accepted. I can't and I can't be the person in this job who tells me if he's happy or not. It is my job to say whether I have any information that the authorities in my jurisdiction have broken the law, whether there has been a breach of the law, or whether the law has been misinterpreted or selectively furnished or distorted. I'm telling you, I don't have the data that would allow you to confirm it. As far as the earlier behaviour of this master is concerned, I said of the law that, in fact, the condition of the application of the oportunity is that a person has not been punished in the past. I'm not gonna blur around here. I don't really know about his troubles with the police. But I'm gonna make a commitment and promise to find out if there's any information I can give you about this person's background without violating these legal restrictions. If I have any new information, I consider it my duty to pass it on to the honourable questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U205	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U206	Good Mr. Vice Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The statement that we are inquisitive was repeated here. Public interest in the activities of the prosecutor's office is not the same as public curiosity. I totally agree, of course. It's not a question of curiosity. The question is a much more important matter of the sense of fairness of the public, of whether the state has acted through the prosecutor's office, given the public's sense of justice, given what people expect of the state when a crime has been committed. It is obvious that the public's sense of justice has not been taken into account in this case. We can only speculate on why this is the case. I am of course of the opinion that, in fact, both the Minister and the Public Prosecutor's Office have the right of discretion in publishing the facts of the whole case. I cannot agree with the Minister's argument that the prosecutor's office cannot provide this information and that he cannot ask for more detailed information on the case. I understand that there are sensitive personal data that may not really need to be known, but the Minister can still present fundamental facts to Parliament. I can't imagine telling the DA's office that they won't give the Minister any information and that they won't release it. That's bullshit. At the moment, it is simply refused to give this data to the public and to Parliament. I also think it is quite clear why this is the case. There are many of these reasons. First, the aim is to conceal or cover up the inability of the government and also the prosecutor's office to guarantee public order. After all, we know that it was still going through here, that we do and we do have cases if there is no real punishment for physical abuse. Just push the folders as deep as possible to the bottom of the drawer and when the deadlines are ticked, they make the opportunity and the whole story. We also know that the behaviour used in the Uthman case is common. But we also know that this is not unique. If they do, the country is very strict, the state and the prosecutor's office can be extremely strong. As was the case with the round of questions, it was enough to threaten the Prime Minister on Facebook, and although there was no real threat, the whole country flew to the threater with full power and weight. Paragraphs and penalties are found, with penalties being real, not conditional. Then there is no question of whether the public is interested or not. So the D.A.'s behavior is two-faced and shows disregard for our people. This shows disregard for victims of crime and, in fact, extreme indiscretion. We know that immigration in Estonia is an acute social issue. We know that the public has a lot of fears about immigrants. We know endless stories about neighbouring countries, how the behaviour of people from Africa and the Middle East and their second cultural background have created a situation where crime is growing exponentially, especially among these immigrants. We know how the police and the prosecutor's office in neighbouring countries use one standard for the indigenous population and another standard for immigrants. This standard is clearly to the detriment of the indigenous population. I am saying now that the prosecutor's office is racist to the Estonian people, because it uses less standard when dealing with Estonians and Estonian people than when dealing with immigrants. We didn't get answers to the questions, we didn't get them from the Minister of the Interior, we didn't get them from the Minister of Justice. Why was a person granted a residence permit even though he entered Estonia illegally? Why does a person still have a residence permit, even though he has broken the law in Estonia and there are sections for his expulsion from Estonia? Why isn't there punishment if it's possible? Why is public order not guaranteed if possible? Why don't you show the people that they're out for the people and on the people's side? Whether there is no will or ability, in any case it is a disgraceful case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U207	Thank you. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U208	All ladies and gentlemen, fellow fighters, fellow sufferers! The duration of a minute depends on which side of the toilet you're on. What appears to be a reasonable period of investigation for the prosecutor's office is not reasonable in the view of the investigation. The Public Prosecutor's Office has no right to say on behalf of the accused or suspect that in his interest they are adding one more thing to it that has been known for years, but now they're just welding it on that end. That's what I meant by artificially stretching. They act like they're in the interest of the suspect, but they're actually putting things off. There was talk that we had to protect personal data. Agreed. Why, then, do we tolerate a new criminal-law procedure to be leaked? I mean, the thing is being initiated and the next move is not a search or anything like that, but the transmission of materials to the Estonian Express, they are then wiretap recordings or some kind of mail. Look, the D.A. spoke nicely, he was asked, but the DA's office doesn't leak. That means the DA's office is leaking. In fact, she leaks in one direction, she leaks in order to discredit a person not yet guilty, to say badly about her, to shape public opinion. The initiation of the criminal cases that the honourable Minister of Justice was talking about, we have no problem at all. We're getting started so we can spank! We have a problem taking things to court. We keep people in the dark for a year or two or three. We're not gonna apologize to them, we're gonna arrest them in front of the TV cameras, and we're not gonna arrest them until the light's in place. But we're leaking out of nowhere. No disciplinary action, as we have now heard, has been imposed for leaking data. In fact, they have leaked repeatedly, systemically. This means that instead of explaining justice and truth, there will be manipulation of the media. I've told you that, but I'm going to say it again. We have two exits. We say in black white that the prosecutor has power on his own and the prosecutor starts to come here like a minister. That's option 1. Option 2 actually means it's what the U.S. has proven it to be, that the prosecutor and the Minister of Justice are the same person. Law cannot be understood according to the principle of selective public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U209	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a word? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U210	Yes, in principle, in some countries, the Minister of Justice has the status of a so-called "general prosecutor," which means a personal union where the state's state's state's status is also exercised by the Minister of Justice, who is also politically responsible. The last time this system was transferred to the Republic of Poland a few months ago. In the case of serious crimes against individuals, must the state intervene more forcefully with its sanctions, as indicated in the previous speech? My answer is yes. Something must be done more strongly in the country's penal policy to deal with people who repeatedly committed dangerous crimes against individuals. I also intend to introduce legislative changes in this regard, work is already going on with them. Now from this statement, it is as if two standards were in force in Estonia when applying the law, one of which is intended for persons who have received international protection from an alien. The presumption was that they would be more "mere" or "soft" in the application of law. On the other hand, it is said to be the standard for all other Estonian people. It just doesn't work out, there's no such thing. It cannot be that we, figuratively speaking, sanction those who have received international protection more rigidly, but there can be no lighter treatment. There is no such thing, I can assure you. As far as information is concerned, I stress once again that this line exists in the law and I am not going to jump over it, no matter how much curiosity or interest it is. Are criminal cases brought to an end in Estonia on the basis of oportunity? Yeah, it's over. This is done very consciously in the interests of the implementation of the national legal order, given that criminal sanctions and the prosecution of a person's criminal offence take precedence over measures which the State can use. It would certainly make sense to find less intensive measures in advance in the catalogue available to the parties. So the law works in Estonia. In this case, I have no reason to claim that the law has been applied selectively, not at all on the basis of any ideological stance. If you claim, as the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the judicial authorities could not provide information on a particular case because they wanted to cover up some political guideline, I can assure you that this argument is not true. But, as I have said to respected heirs, if there is any additional information that the law permits disclosure, and if it concerns my jurisdiction, I will certainly pass it on to the heirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U211	Thank you. We're done answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U212	The third item is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Henn Põlleaasa, Martin Helme, Raivo Põldaru, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti and Arno Silla about the violations of the law around the ferry ticket online sales centre. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Henn Põllea!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U213	Dear Deputy Speaker! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, as many as you are left in this Chamber! Our questioning concerns the confusion about the sale of ferry tickets online. It is part of this great mess and also of the corruption that, unfortunately, has arisen along with this ferry theme. We know that the ferry ticket selling and booking system worked perfectly for years. Nevertheless, a million or more euros were spent and a new system was created. At the same time, we know that Vyacheslav Leedo's ferry ticket company Tuule Piletikakeskus OÜ signed a contract in 2012 that undertook to transfer these information systems to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in 2016, free of charge. No wonder, because over the years, the State had paid EUR 2.8 million to Leedo's company to develop this system, which included a profit of more than EUR 200000. Leedo claims he wanted to hand over the system, but no one wanted it. He asked for $200,000, $300,000, but that money wasn't given. At the same time, Leedo sued the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications for damages amounting to EUR 400000. It is a little incomprehensible to us that if the state essentially paid off this previous system and there was a contract that this system would be obtained free of charge, why this agreement had not been implemented then. How much has the compensation actually been paid to Leedo? What exactly is the source of Leedo's new claim? Why were these sums still spent on a new system? Why does the taxpayer's money continue to be wasted when this system was already bought out? How does the Head of Minister Tuule Tiletikeskus OÜ comment on the claim two years ago that by 2016, this ticket system would have been amortised, the same system for which the state spent millions? If so, was it irrational use of state and taxpayer money or expropriation of money from the system? Who, and how, is responsible for the situation that has arisen and for the waste of public money, and what is going to be done to solve this whole problem? I hope that we will receive much more exhaustive explanations from the Minister for Economic Affairs than from the Minister for Justice, whose explanations were quite incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U214	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U215	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear members of the Riigikogu, all of you who are still working despite the late hour! So I'm going to answer as usual, first I'm going to read the question and then I'm going to answer it. The first question: 'Is the agreement between Tuule Ticket Centre OÜ and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on the free delivery of the ticket system still in force? ' Point 2.6 of the Cooperation Agreement concluded on 7 July 2012 between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Tuule Ticket Centre states: 'In case the Wind Ticket Centre ceases its commercial activities and/or the provision of information systems and infrastructure, it undertakes to transfer information systems and infrastructure and all intellectual property, including equipment, licences, etc., free of charge to the Ministry in accordance with the applicable legislation. ' This obligation has not been amended, so it is still in force and ticketing systems must be transferred free of charge to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications by 30 December 2016 at the latest, i.e. by the end of this year. The second question: 'How much has the state paid for the ticket system given to Vyacheslav Leedo? ' In 2011, the Ministry of Economic Affairs carried out an audit of the ticket revenue and booking fees of Väinamere Liinid OÜ, which revealed that the booking fees were not made in accordance with the public service contract in force at the time. Between 2008 and 2011, Tuule Ticket Centre OÜ, which manages the e-ticket system, received booking fees worth around EUR 860000, which the company did not transfer to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and was used to develop e-ticket sales and port access systems. In addition, Tuuletiletikeskus sold bonus cards to customers for an additional fee, known as "A-cards," whose income, together with other revenues from Tuuleti Piletikakeskus OÜ in 2008-2011 was EUR 400000. This was not reflected in the accounts of Väinamere Liinid OÜ or in the reports submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. As a result of the negotiations, an annex to the public service contract was concluded between Väinamere Liinid OÜ and the Ministry of Economic Affairs on 7 July 2012, on the basis of which the Ministry of Economic Affairs compensated Väinamere Liinid OÜ for the cost of maintaining and developing the port passage information system, ticket sales information system and the infrastructure necessary for their operation as of 1 April 2012. It was also agreed that investments in information systems carried out between 2008 and 2011 (for a total of EUR 903000) were compensated for the booking fees and information systems fee not paid to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Between 2012 and 2016, Väinameriline Liinid OÜ was compensated for the running costs of maintaining the system of ticket sales and booking information system in the amount of EUR 880000, the new development costs of just under EUR 170000 and the average profit of the sector of EUR 122000. Question 3: "What is the new vyacheslav Leedo's claim for justice? In the Ticket System case, the claimant is Tuule Ticket Centre, not Vyacheslav Leedo. Tuule Ticket Centre OÜ went to court against the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications because it considers that the cooperation agreement concluded on 7 July 2012 (i.e. the contract for the use of the information system and infrastructure of Tuule Ticket Centre) has not been properly implemented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In essence, Tuule Ticket Centre wishes to continue the execution of the contract with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this agreement has been terminated and there is no reason or reason for the Ministry to continue to implement it. This civil case is in Harju County Court proceedings and the decision has not yet been taken. Therefore, the explanation of the details is limited by that amount. The fourth question: 'Why is the waste of taxpayers' money going on when the state has bought out a system with public investment and funds injected into the development of the system virtually several times? The ticket selling system developed by Tuule Ticket Centre OÜ has not been bought out several times by the state. As I explained in my reply to the second question, the Ministry of Economic Affairs compensated the carrier for the costs associated with the organisation and maintenance of the information system, in other words, the costs involved in organising ticket sales. The development and maintenance costs of the information system are also covered by the subsidy amount paid on other ferry routes, as the sale of tickets to ferry lines is an important part of the regular service. These costs must also be included in normal operating costs and compensated by public transport support. A multiple buy-out would have occurred if the Ministry of Economic Affairs had started buying the entire system again from Tuule Ticket Centre OÜ. As I referred to earlier, point 2.6 of the Cooperation Agreement with the Wind Ticket Centre provides for the free transfer of systems to the State, precisely in order to avoid buying out the information system for multiple fees. Question 5: "How do you comment on the claim made by Krista Esta, Head of Tuule Tiletikeskus OÜ two years ago that by 2016 the ticket system has been amortised? This suggests the possibility that the taxpayer's money for state aid and development has been used improperly or out of the system. ' Without being an IT specialist, it is difficult to evaluate Krista Esta's statement. According to the Ministry, it was important that tickets to the public route were sold both online and on-site at the port. The system developed by Tuule Ticket Centre OÜ was able to meet these requirements. Technology is evolving extremely fast. It is understandable that this system could also have been improved, simplified or more beautiful. However, this does not mean that the system was inoperable or that the money invested in it could be considered wasted or misused. Question 6: "Who and how is responsible for the situation and the uncontrolled waste of public money? What are we going to do to solve this problem? ' There has been no uncontrollable waste of public money. Contracts and technology have been developed as time has changed. Until 2008, tickets for ferry lines could only be booked by telephone, booking centre or port register. Today, we can no longer imagine a situation where we should travel to the port to book a ticket. Technological developments have enabled such systems that a ticket can be purchased regardless of the location of the passenger. The possibility of identifying residence via an ID card, simple mobile payments, etc., was probably not everyday at the time of signing the contract concluded in 2004, and therefore the requirements for selling e-tickets to the online environment in the form that the system provided for this year were not included in the contract either. The Ministry assumed that, as technology progressed and new opportunities developed, the ferry-to-ship ticketing system would be in keeping with time. That is why it became necessary to ensure the possibility of buying e-tickets and to cover the costs incurred by the carrier. At present, it is normal that all public regular service contracts already include the possibility and obligation to sell e-tickets and these costs are included in the price of the tenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U216	Thank you, Minister. You have a question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U217	Thank you. Good minister! The state has covered the costs of setting up, handling and using the reservation system of Vyacheslav Leedo Tuule Piletikakeskus OÜ. Now it is the situation that the state has developed a new ticket system, but in time we will also be able to own this Tuule Ticket Centre reservation and sales system, as you mentioned here. So we have two ticket systems, a reservation or a sales centre that we have paid for as a taxpayer. Could it still not have been resolved differently, using this former system until it was handed over to us, or could there not have been another solution? Now we've paid twice for one thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U218	Thank you. I understand your concern, but at least on the basis of the information I have been given on these years' contracts, I can say that this agreement, which has been concluded in the previous period, says that these ticket systems must be handed over free to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as I said, by 30 December 2016, i.e. by the end of this year. In fact, negotiations were also held between Tuule Ticket Centre OÜ and TS Ships OÜ. After all, this information was also available to the public that such a debate was taking place. Negotiation using a very appropriate expression The Wind Ticket Centre wanted to continue providing the service itself and did not allow the transfer of its systems to TS Ships. But the ticket sale was due to start from September this year, and so TS Ships decided to make a new system. In order to establish it, he was absolutely right, and there was no obligation in the procurement that the new carrier would have to continue using the Tuule Ticket Centre OÜ system. On the positive side, every new development will certainly lead to new solutions. The new TS Ship System has led to new technological solutions that Tuule Ticket Centre OÜ did not allow at the time. For example, automatic identification of vehicle numbers is already taking place in ports. All the way in which this ticketing system was paid for and on the basis of which it took place was already mentioned in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U219	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. We're done answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U220	We will go to today's last inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm, Ain Lutsepp, Krista Aru, Artur Talvik and Andres Herkel about deepening the shipping route of Hiiumaa. It is presented to Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. On behalf of the inquisitors, I ask for Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U221	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! Respectable colleagues interested in quality ferry connections between the mainland and Hiiumaa! A bit of an inquiry into carmellose. This question of the six members of the Free Party Group is somewhat inspired by a briefing in this very Chamber, where, for some reason, almost all the questions were addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal, and precisely about ferry connections. This occurred at a time when the ferry connection between the mainland and Hiiumaa was disrupted due to low water levels. The Minister confirmed in his replies several times that neither the government nor the honourable members of the Riigikogu can against nature, and this water level cannot be regulated in any way. The Minister was absolutely right about that. But the speaker here began to wonder if we were sufficiently prepared for this situation and if this situation should happen again in the future, whether our readiness would be a little better and whether there was any way to improve this readiness. In the opinion of many customers who were waiting to be transferred, especially the entrepreneurs in Hiiumaa, but also the media, TS Ships reacted, but not the fastest. It took time to bring the High Lai to the aid line, as did the decision that there would be nothing left, but that the Rye Reef channel would have to be extraordinaryly cleaned due to the build-up of sediment. Whether all this time was justified or not, we hope to find out today. Although the senior captains who described this situation said that some of them had not seen such a situation for a few decades, scientists, climate experts, say that the problem of the Väinameri Sea water level is not so new and extraordinary, it can happen again. We therefore want answers from the Minister on how we will be prepared for this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U222	Thank you. The Minister is ready to answer the question. I ask Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U223	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of Hiiumaa ferrying! There aren't many of you, I can tell you for the sake of history. But as usual, I read the question and then the answer. The first question: 'Why was the response to difficult weather conditions so slow, what was the role of the failure of different authorities to coordinate their actions at an inadequate rate of response? " The October sea level was very low, this low state lasted for a long time and was regarded by experts as extraordinary. In previous years, weather problems have been caused by the drop in water levels, but to such an extent and for such a long time there has not been a low level of water that would have disrupted shipping. Moreover, the situation was complicated by the stormy weather, which affected the wave rotation and caused an even lower wave valley, which in turn limited the possibilities for ships to travel. So it can be said that nature was unexpected and extreme than ever before. I do not agree with the argument that the response to difficult weather conditions was slow. TS Laevad OÜ, Maritime Administration, Ministry, rural governments and many others had to communicate to find an operational solution. TS Ships were constantly looking for solutions. Let's look at the dates. On October 15, the first information came that due to low water levels, St. Ola and Harilaid were added to the line. By evening the water level fell further: in Rohuküla,.62 and Heltermaa, to 55 centimeters. The next day, St. Ola as well as Regula, in the evening Harilaid took St. Ola's exit over. On the evening of 19 October, it became clear that sea water levels fell further and TS Ships decided to rent the Highlands. To this end, negotiations had to be held, but nevertheless, on the evening of 20 October, the Highlands added to the route. On 21 October, the trawling in the Rye Peace channel began, which ended on 25 October. Both emergency dredging and trawling were considered to clean the rye reef canal. Dredging has its own procedures. To this end, a specific authorisation for the use of water must be applied for and a procurement procedure is required. These jobs can only be done at night, or when the ferry does not travel. Dredging also entails a financial cost. In case of trawling, the benefits of the works had to be identified. In so far as the trawling process smoothed out the canal by leaving the sediments in the canal, it had to be made sure that the depth of the canal could be increased to the extent necessary. TS Laevad OÜ negotiated to bring a new ferry on the line when prior information was received that the water level could fall to 70 centimeters. It was important to ensure at least two vessels with a draught that would allow the service of the line in difficult water conditions. In these exceptional circumstances, too, it was necessary to conclude an agreement relating to additional financial obligations. The process took the most time to assemble teams and prepare the ship. The second question: 'What is the crisis plan of the Ministry and TS Ships in order to ensure an adequate connection to Hiiumaa and other islands even in the case of very low water levels? ' Given that this was an exceptional situation and these situations are not predictable, there will continue to be close contact between the carrier and the ministry, rural governments and other relevant authorities in such cases in order to find an optimal solution. During the trawling work, the Rye Reef channel was cleaned and its depth was increased by 20 centimeters. As a result, larger ships were able to fly the Hiiumaa route at low water levels. TS Laevad OÜ's new ferry draught is four metres and from the type these ships are similar to the ferry Hiiumaa, which gives reason to believe that as a result of the daily sailing of the ships, the canal will be washed out of the sediments. The Maritime Administration will be responsible for monitoring the depth data of the ferry lines on a regular basis, allowing additional measures to be taken to ensure passenger transport where necessary. It is possible and reasonable to carry out the survey work even after arriving on the new ferry line. The connection to the other islands has not been comparable to the situation of Hiiumaa Community; there have been no long-term obstacles. Question 3: 'When and to what extent will the next dredging work be planned in the Rye Reef channel, what will you assess its potential cost? Have these costs been taken into account in the national budget strategy? ' To assess the need for dredging, measurements are carried out. In the country's channels where ferry traffic takes place (e.g. the Rye Reef channel), survey work is carried out every year and additional survey work can be carried out if necessary. The last dredging work was carried out in the Rye Peace channel in 2014, then the cost of one cubic metre was approximately 110 euros. The cost of dredging the route from Rohuküla to Heltermaa is 1.3 million euros if the channel is to be deepened to a depth of 5,7 metres for possible emergency situations, for example. Before 2014, dredging took place in 2000. Dredging will be significantly more thorough than trawling and will take a year to prepare it, as a specific permit for water use must be applied for, procurement should be carried out, etc. Thus, the preparation period is long enough and it is possible to take these decisions in the budgetary procedure. The important thing is that the ferry traffic on the lines was not disrupted. There was a temporary disturbance in the line, but this was an extreme situation organised by nature. Question 4: "What is the capacity of new ferries ordered from Poland and Turkey to drive at low water levels? ' TS Ships OÜ's new ferry draught is four metres. As a result of the daily sailing of ships, the canal is washed away from sediment. Therefore, ferries ordered from Poland and Turkey have a higher capacity to drive at low water levels than those currently operated by Regulal and St. Olal. Question 5: How has TS Ship Cooperation with TUT Marine Systems Institute been organised to obtain advance information on critical water levels as early as possible and to share it with customers? ' The website of the Institute of Marine Systems of the Tallinn University of Technology has published forecasts of sea level, which can be consulted by everyone. It also forwards these forecasts to the State Weather Service. TS Laevad OÜ wishes to exchange operational information at sea level with the TUT Maritime Systems Institute in order to provide 48 hours in advance with an estimate of the possible change in water level. This would allow passengers to be informed of the critical situation of the transfer as early as possible. Finally. The monthly fluctuations in water levels lasted for 16 days, i.e. a little more than two weeks. For seven days, St. Ola. During that time, they were on a free schedule. 65 trips were canceled, 100 trips were replaced. It was driven for as long as the customers continued or the crews were able to work. TS Ships actively shared operational information with customers. I would like to thank everyone who contributed to this and I hope that the future will be just as good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U224	Thank you. Minister, there is a question for you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U225	Thank you. Dear Minister, You mentioned these new ferries. This was also one of the topics of the Tallinn Port Research Committee. It mentioned that when the new barges come, the Rye Peace channel must be expanded and deepened and cost EUR 30 to 60 million, because these ships simply cannot travel in this channel otherwise. Those claims were quite different from those provided by you. Do you have any comment on that? What is the basis for the data you provide?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U226	Thank you. I'm trying to explain within the limits of my knowledge, as always. Moreover, this is the last question I will answer, from now on you will ask the next minister. But new ferries are able to travel even at a lower water level, the difference is about 10 to 20 centimeters. What is the difference between the current ferry and the one I referred to (Regula, St. Ola), and new ferries, including Hiiumaa-type ferries? Their engine types are different, which means that newer types of ships are pushing sediment out of the canal. They're different, they're creating reliefs at the bottom, at least on the basis of their pictures of the seabed, which I've seen. This picture looks like a regular wavy sea bed. The barges with propellers create a ridge in the middle and maybe a ridge, which is a problem. New ferry ships are better that way. You mentioned the bill. I have no idea who said it, I don't know it, but it's probably not true. Unless it was meant to expand the Hiiumaa Canal as a whole. The canal is narrow, there are places where a ship can't stop at a certain angle when it's at a lower water level, or it'll get stuck. But that's the peculiarity of this channel. I don't know if anyone's planning to expand this channel significantly. So once again, thank you for all your questions. It was fun! I'll see you in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U227	Thank you, Minister. You are currently also in the Riigikogu. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. We have also completed our answer to today's last question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-21_U228	Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who has not been able to talk himself out of it today can do so within a free microphone after a hammer hit. There are no words. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow morning! Closure of the sitting at 19.24 p.m.
