ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U1	Hello, honourable Riigikogu! Good luck! We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the third plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the law on courts and related amendments to other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft Public Procurement Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu in the proceedings of the draft law by the Minister of State Administration Arto Aas. Third, the emergency bill. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Tobacco Act. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in processing the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U3	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U4	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! In order to ensure the competence and credibility of the Political Financing Supervision Commission and to prevent it from becoming a member of a criminally sanctioned party, five political groups of the Riigikogu are initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Estonian Reform Party Group, the Estonian Social Democratic Party Group, the Estonian Free Party Group and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U5	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U6	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to make from 22 members of the Centre Party Group, who are acting with one voice and with a team spirit. The inquiry is to Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski about the financing of health care and the collective agreement of health professionals. In fact, the negotiations on the collective agreement of health professionals have once again fallen into the sand. As the medical team himself politely reported, there are two news: good news and bad news. The good news is that it was agreed to reach a common position, move towards optimal wage relationships for doctors, nurses and carers, and take into account the practice of other countries. But that is all the positive news, because important things have been excluded from the negotiations, such as work on holidays, overtime, on-call time, etc. It is clear that hospitals must also be open on holidays and public holidays, and those who do this work must be rewarded. Therefore, 22 members of the Centre Party Group have questions for Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. The questions are as to why the Minister did not participate in the negotiations, although the health professionals asked for it, what the Minister's future plans were and how the Minister, God give him health, intends to ensure adequate funding for health care in the future and improve access to health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U7	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! It has become a tradition that the Riigikogu processes the school lunch bill from time to time. Since we have not had the opportunity to discuss how and what our children could eat in school for a long time, it is appropriate to re-open this bill. But it doesn't happen by any chance. Let me remind everyone who does not remember, and I will tell those who do not know that there is also a debate on the state budget in the long term, the RES debate. School lunch allowance has soon been 78 cents for ten years. Raising it to one euro is certainly something that the RES could have on the table. The 78 cents for which children at school are miraculously fed have been in place for years, despite the very high rise in food prices. For example, food prices increased by 22% between 2010 and February 2016, while school lunch support increased by 4% during this period. Unfortunately, this is only because the number of children decreased. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us discuss how the school lunch grant could reach one euro, and we will also find the means to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U9	I have adopted six drafts and one inquiry. All of them will be delivered on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are 88 members of the Riigikogu, missing 13. Now, from the agenda. In agreement with the authors of the inquiries, the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, has submitted a request to supplement today's agenda with item No 8, i.e. an inquiry submitted on 8 March by the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior regarding the purchase of the border areas of South-East Estonia, with item No 9, i.e. an inquiry submitted to the Minister of the Interior on the same day by the members of the Riigikogu concerning the advance upgrading of the police officer's service, and with item No 10, i.e. an inquiry submitted to the Minister of the Interior of the members of the Riigikogu on 10 March in the Rescue Board. In addition, the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu has proposed to exclude from the agenda of this working week the fourth item on Tuesday 5 April, the first reading of the draft law amending the district heating Act and the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act, initiated by the Central Party Group. Together with these improvements, I shall make the agenda subject to approval. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 10th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 89 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there is no one against and no one has abstained. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U10	We will proceed on the basis of a fixed agenda. The first item on the agenda is the inquiry submitted by Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarseper, Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmme and Ain Lutsepse. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U11	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! There's a rare collection sitting in this hall. There is no other body in the world that should be responsible and good for the development of the Estonian language. That is the task we have been given, and we must stand up for this task by all means. Members of the Estonian Free Party Group have submitted to the Minister for Culture an inquiry into Estonian language courses. How are the courses in Estonian for adults? What are their results? In particular, we submitted an inquiry because almost 6,000 people registered for Estonian language courses in 2015. That's a huge amount. Today we know that only a few hundred people have received these courses. As we read about the Integration and Migration Foundation Our People on the website, they hope that another 2,000 people may receive language training this year. This situation cannot satisfy us in any way. We expect an answer from the Minister of Culture on how to proceed with Estonian language courses, what expectations are and what we should definitely do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U12	Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Thank you for the very important questioning of the Free Party Group. As you said in the introduction to your inquiry, Estonian language and its development are very important to us. I couldn't agree more. I'll give you my opinion. Every new master of the Estonian language contributes to the preservation and development of our language and culture and makes us stronger and more united as a country. Every person who learns the Estonian language enriches our language space. However, the Estonian language can still be loved only if it is not taught with coercion and fear, but by creating motivation and opportunities for those who wish. That is why we must achieve that every resident of Estonia, regardless of his or her age, nationality and socio-economic background, has the opportunity to learn the Estonian language. This is important for these people, because only language can contribute to social life and the cultural space as much as possible. This is important for the country, because the more Estonian there are, the stronger our language space will be. The state must ensure high-quality language learning for all. It is important that the state does not simply order and punish, but involves and creates opportunities for high-quality language learning using all possible modern and flexible language learning opportunities. Of course, the Ministry of Education and Research plays a major role in ensuring the quality and modern methodology of language learning. Now your questions, which I got five together. The first question: 'The Integration and Migration Foundation Our People (MISA), the founding rights of which are exercised by the Ministry of Culture, announced that last year nearly 6,000 people registered for free courses in Estonian. As far as we know, only 370 of them have completed courses. Question: What is the problem: are there few courses, or are their quality unsatisfactory, or are the courses not completed? " As of 31 August 2015, 5961 people had registered on the MISA website. The courses started in October 2015 ended in March 2016 by 370 people, or 23 language groups. With the current state of study, 1,700 people are studying, and from April to August this year, 470 more people will start their studies, with a total of 106 language groups. Estonian language courses are currently organised on the scale allowed by the existing training market. MISA buys up to 2 000 new language learning places by means of each public procurement. For example, at the end of 2015, seven language learning companies participated in public procurement, five of which proved to be the winner. The main obstacle to ordering new study places is the limited number of participants in public procurement. Training companies providing language learning services also participate in the procurement of language learning by other public authorities. At the same time, language courses for educators, language courses for new immigrants at the request of the Ministry of Education and Research, and language courses for the unemployed and people at risk of exclusion are held at the request of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Some people wishing to study Estonian will participate in language courses organised by private and third sectors and will use the Innove service offered by Innove to compensate for the costs of language learning. GOOD feedback has come about the Estonian language trainings organised by MISA, which started in 2015. The results of the survey among participants in the courses show that participation in language learning has increased the interest of the participants in learning the Estonian language, as well as the courage to communicate in Estonian. 65% of respondents to the survey have decided to enroll in the language proficiency examination, even though these courses do not have such an obligation. In May 2016, MISA will tender for additional Estonian language studies to offer up to 2000 additional study places for Estonian language studies at levels A2 to B2. In the autumn of this year, some 1 500 people are invited to test language levels and receive vocational training, i.e. everyone who has registered for A2‐B2 level courses through the MISA website, also taking into account the possibilities for continuing training. Registered people can study at a number of language levels, if necessary. Training will be organised from September 2016 to December 2017. During this period, we should be able to offer at least one level of language learning to all those who registered in the first wave to which you referred at the beginning to be around 6 000 people. With regard to the quality of training, it is also often said that the amendments to the Adult Education Act and the Language Act entered into force on 2 July 2015, which significantly changed the basis for organising adult education in Estonian. The Language Act stipulates that a trainer must be authorised if the purpose of the further training in Estonian is to prepare for the proficiency test. A training company is authorised if the applicant has continuing education curricula that meet the requirements laid down in the Language Act and teachers with the required competence and the learning environment, including educational resources. The Language Inspectorate checks compliance with the legal requirements for the use of Estonian language and foreign languages, as well as how employers ensure that officials or employees have the required level of proficiency in the Estonian language for the performance of their duties or duties. The second question: 'MISA has pointed out that the lack of A1 language level courses is a serious problem (the EU funding programme allows only A2 to B2). However, many language enthusiasts (especially in Ida-Virumaa) are not sure about their language skills and wish to start from scratch. Question: How and when will the Ministry of Culture also provide free language learning at A1 level and what will be done to ensure that language learners have the opportunity to move to a C1 language certificate or a high level? ' Under the European Social Fund integration measure managed by the Ministry of Culture, Estonian language learning at levels A2, B1 and B2 is offered in accordance with the terms of the grant. It is true that the long-term residents of Estonia do not currently have the opportunity to study Estonian at A1 level in free language courses. The adaptation programme of the Ministry of the Interior offers free A1 level education only for new immigrants, i.e. residents with permanent residence permits living in Estonia for up to five years. The Estonian language at levels A1-A2 can be studied free of charge in the e-learning environment Keeleklikk. This environment has nearly 40,000 users and feedback has been very positive. With the support of the European Social Fund, the Ministry of Education and Research will, by the way, acquire the B1 level of study in the e-learning environment this year, which is necessary for obtaining Estonian citizenship. MISA students who do not have A1 language skills are currently around 900. They are advised to start learning the language in the above-mentioned e-learning environment Language Click. But MISA is also preparing an additional opportunity for language learning in the near future to provide guidance for the guidance centres in order to learn the language in the e-environment, as everyone's ability may not be sufficient for completely independent learning. The Ministry of Culture will also request additional funding for next year's budget negotiations to provide 600 free Estonian language studies at A1 level in an auditory environment. Question three: '2015. The first Estonian courses of A2, B1 and B2 level were started in 2006 in the framework of the European Social Fund project "Activities supporting integration in Estonian society'. Free language courses are planned until 2020. Estonia has financed national language learning for adults mostly from EU funding sources. The contribution of the Estonian budget is extremely modest. Question: Is this financing model sustainable and correct, and how does the Ministry of Culture intend to ensure consistent learning of Estonian when financing by the European Union ends? ' Our goal is to ensure a stable free language learning facility for 2,000 to 2200 people a year. This figure is due to the opportunities of the training market. Currently, funding and offering of Estonian language learning is ensured in cooperation between the various parties. The Ministry of Education and Research, through Innove, organises training courses to increase language levels for employees in the public sector and, with the support of the Ministry of Social Affairs, for people who have lost their job or who are at risk of exclusion, if they are difficult to get to work due to lack of knowledge of the Estonian language. For new immigrants, initial language training is provided by the Home Office Adaptation Program, as already mentioned above. In addition to the Ministry's grants, several private companies offer training in Estonian language to their employees. The costs of learning the Estonian language are reimbursed from the state budget to the applicants for Estonian citizenship and to those who have been referred to the language examination by the Language Inspectorate. The costs of language training are also reimbursed to persons who are unable to apply for reimbursement under the Citizenship Act or the Language Act, but who have passed the Estonian language examination at A2, B1, B2 or C1. In these cases, the compensation is paid by the Ministry of Education and Research, assisted by the Foundation Innove. The European Union's funding sources are certainly not sufficient to cover language learning needs. This is why the Ministry of Culture is requesting additional resources from the state budget for studying Estonian language in 2018 to 2020 (the country's budget strategy is currently being carried out for 2017 to 2020) at levels A2 to B2. With this money it would be possible to organise additional Estonian language studies for up to 3000 people, at an estimated price of 330 euros per person and with the aim of raising the language skills of participants by one language level. Question 4: 'How many Estonians have participated in free language learning over the last five years? What is the situation with the availability of language courses in Ida-Virumaa? ' Between 2011 and 2015, free Estonian language training was offered to a total of 18841 people in the administration of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. In implementing the "Estonia's 2008-2013 integration programme," MISA supported Estonian language learning with the support of the European Fund for the Integration of Third-Country Citizens and the European Social Fund's "Development of language learning in the framework of the 2007-2010' and "Development of language learning in the 2011-2013' programmes, including language courses by teachers, police officers, medical staff, librarians, students, students from vocational training institutions, third sector workers and visually impaired and hearing people. In addition to being free of charge Estonian language courses, supporting labour force exchange programmes, compensating for the costs of language learning, teaching a specialized language, including students from higher education institutions and vocational training institutions, and supporting individual language learning under mentor guidance, as well as specialized courses and language clubs in Narva, Kohtla-Järvel, Jõhvi and Sillamäe. The activities also included the development of educational resources, including Estonian language curricula, according to the language proficiency levels of the European Framework of Reference for Languages, and further training of language teachers. The offer of language learning and the improvement of educational resources will also take place within the framework of the development plan for the new area of integration "Integrating Estonia 2020." MISA, supported by the Ministry of Education and Research, organised additional B2 and C1 language courses for 235 teachers in Ida-Virumaa in 2015. The same volume of language training is offered to educational staff in Ida-Virumaa in 2016. In addition, 250 people in Narva and 160 people in Jõhvi, Kohtla-Järve and Ahtme will learn Estonian during the first half of 2016. Tests before and after the course have shown an improvement in language skills. However, with all these fine language courses in Ida-Virumaa, it is often the problem that language practice cannot be obtained in the area, i.e. you can acquire the language, but it does not land. That is why non-formal learning is also used in addition to auditory education. From 2015 there will be a language cafe in Narva, which offers support and practice in Estonian for those who want to supplement the vocabulary of the Estonian language and practice the language on their own. This has proven to be undisputed popular, so in 2016, MISA has planned its activities so that 60 language and culture clubs in Sillamäe, Jõhvi, Kohtla-Järve Ahtme district, Narva, as well as Tallinn, Tartu and Pärnu will be opened, allowing up to 960 people to participate. Estonian language and culture clubs are designed for those who speak Estonian at least B2 level and want to improve their language of communication. Membership of the club will be first registered for B2 level Estonian language courses through the MISA website this summer. Participation in language clubs is voluntary. Their aim is to help language learners to maintain the level of language they have achieved and to provide additional opportunities to learn more about Estonian culture. Cultural clubs also provide an opportunity to create wider social networks and people-to-people contacts for language training.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U15	One question was not answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U16	Yes, but I think the members of the Riigikogu are bravely helping the minister to answer this question, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U18	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you for your answers, and please answer this last question as well. But I wanted to raise the issue of the effectiveness of language courses. In fact, when the Committee on Economic Affairs was discussing this not very wise draft, which removed the language requirement for taxi drivers when they received the service card, the Head of the Language Inspectorate, Ilmar Tomusk, had been invited to do so once. He analysed the situation in such a way that the most effective are, in fact, those language courses where the learner also contributes his or her personal money, getting back part of the successful exam. There are probably other aspects involved here, after all, free language courses are also a guaranteed market for entrepreneurs. How do you see this thing that ensures that the courses are as effective as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U20	Thank you for your question. With your generous permission, I will first answer the fifth question: 'How, by what means and to what extent is the level of education of the Estonian language organised for employees in the public sector, including educational staff? How many teachers of Russian-language comprehensive schools and upper secondary schools (these upper secondary schools, where 60% of the subjects are in Estonian) have completed Estonian language courses in the last five years and has it been effective? ' The Ministry of Education and Research is responsible for the systematic and continuous free learning of Estonian language. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, he studied in 2015/16. in the academic year in Ida-Virumaa, 235 teachers from pre-school children's institutions, general education schools and vocational schools. The training volume was 160 academic hours and the training period from November 2015 to March 2016. Some of the teachers who attended the course passed the proficiency exam in February and some in May. Based on the results of the examination, follow-up activities are planned: courses, mentoring, development of some skills, etc. For this activity, a total of EUR 110000 per year has been allocated from the state budget. In cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research also plans to finance language training for public sector employees (e.g. doctors, nurses, nurses) and also provides professional Estonian language education for students of vocational and higher education. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Research prepares an open call for applications, where local authorities can submit applications to support non-formal and formal language learning for non-profit organisations, institutions and employees of companies. The costs of language training are also reimbursed to persons who cannot claim reimbursement under the Citizenship Act or the Language Act but who have passed a positive exam at level A2, B1, B2 or C1, as mentioned above. National budget resources are set at EUR 229911 per year. How can we ensure that language learning is effective? If there were a simple solution, we would probably have been doing exactly that a long time ago. As I said at the outset, forms of study must be flexible and take into account people's opportunities. A person who can handle himself better materially often has better learning skills. Thus, the link is not one-to-one: not only does he pay for these courses, but also that he has the opportunity to pay for them ensures that the results of language learning can be better. Unfortunately, not all people are able to go out of their savings for language courses at EUR 300.400, which is needed to improve their language skills by one level for their money. It is reasonable to provide these people with free education. I am of the opinion that this cost, compared to what society wins from people developing their language skills, is, however, very reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U21	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! This talk about language learning, although with minor variations, has been heard for decades. Have you thought about why language learning has not worked, why all of Estonia has not spoken in Estonian for a long time? Teaching the Russians to speak Estonian is still a problem. Have you analyzed what has been spent on the enormous money allocated to the immersion of the tongue? Where's the hole? The question is this: why did the Estonian people not speak the pure Estonian language five years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U23	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of Education and Research is involved in the immersion of the language and, in my opinion, has been working all along. The Ministry of Culture will not analyse what concerns the administration of another ministry. However, you must ask the Minister of Education and Research in particular. As I said earlier, in order to learn the language, it is often necessary to have an opportunity for language practice, not to mention motivation. We know very well that, especially in Ida-Virumaa, there are cities where language practice is minimal. That is why the least that we have been able to do at the moment in the so-called rapid response procedure is that we have used the resources of the European Social Fund to create language and cultural clubs of the highest possible quality as soon as possible to offer people who have participated in language learning and have already achieved some level of language learning the opportunity to develop their language skills independently or to maintain it. This is one of the actions that we can do on the ground in our area. How to motivate people with other mother tongues to learn Estonian is, of course, a much wider topic. As you have also pointed out, we have been talking about this for years and we have talked a lot. I guess we'll have to talk more then. One might say that there are certainly many schools here who believe in different means of motivating people to learn the language. But the least we can do is at least give everyone the chance to learn the language and, of course, to use it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U24	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U25	Good manager! Good minister! I'm gonna ask you one more question. I heard that the plan was to give 2000 people the opportunity to receive free courses a year, and I know the previous practice in 2011/2015 when there were nearly 4,000 people a year. Currently, the state of Estonia offers free courses only to half the people who would like them. Consequently, the free language learning machine is working half the force. Who is responsible for ensuring that this machine works with "half force," although according to Article 6 of the Estonian Constitution, the Estonian official language is Estonian and everyone could be able to learn it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U26	It is the responsibility of all those who have the power to make the state budget and who are responsible for the priorities set out in the state budget. Unfortunately, as I described to you in my answers, we are still used to the minimal provision of free language learning. It was planned that it would only be offered for the money of the European Social Fund. When language courses were announced in the summer of 2015, free language courses were planned for 560 people at first speed, while ten times more people registered. What could we do quickly? We moved the European Social Fund from later periods to earlier periods and took advantage of all the training market capacities we had. That is why the ceiling is in 2000 because the training market is simply not capable of providing more quality services at the moment. I've described the timetable for how we're going with it. This means that, from 2018, in order to keep the level the same, we need to provide for state resources for language learning, given that one person's language learning, in order to achieve any level, is currently costing EUR 330 to the circa. These are the resources that we are applying for from the Ministry of Finance in the planning of the state budget strategy. On the other hand, it became clear that there are still a number of people among these people who do not speak Estonian at the basic level. As I have already described, since this became clear only at the end of last year, the first chance to ask for money for them is when we ask for additional funds from next year's budget. In the meantime, we can advise people to make maximum use of the Language Click environment for individual learning and try to create an opportunity for students to be assisted. If a person has a problem with quite independent learning, MISA consultants try to help them use the Language Click.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U27	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There are nearly 150,000 people with disabilities in Estonia, which means that in view of the structure and linguistic division of our population, it can be assumed that very many of them have a Russian language. I know that in 2013 there was a flagship project that tried to teach the Estonian language to hearing people in Russian and visually impaired. What is your assessment of how language learning opportunities for hearing and visually impaired people are guaranteed, what are the conclusions of this project and what are the possible developments?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U29	Thank you for your question. I'm afraid I have to admit I've never been in contact with this particular, so I can't answer your question. With your permission, I will specify this and reply in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U30	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U31	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I was a little worried about your introduction. You tried to claim that someone was forcing someone to study. I think we should, of course, take it that in an Estonian country where Estonian is a national language, it is learned and taught, we must not be ashamed of it. Such small-country resident syndrome does not motivate immigrants to learn our language. Can you tell me how big this whole financial pot is, the amount of money that goes to language training? How much of this comes directly from Estonian taxpayers and how much money from European Union funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U32	However, I cannot say this amount, but I will also try to answer this question in writing. I tend to think that the vast majority of this is money coming from European funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U33	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister. Have you analyzed how intensively and how much electronic language learning is currently being used in Keeleklik? I also looked at the MISA website. The e-dictionary post-2010 has not been particularly advanced there. How do you see the development of an electronic environment at all and how intensive it can be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U35	Estonia is an e-state and we are used to getting almost everything off the Internet. The more the day goes on, the more we work with this all-encompassing gadget called the Internet. There are 40,000 language click users, a significant number. The question is, yes, how consciously and effectively it is used. I'm sure you can always do better. I referred to above, answering questions, that the Ministry of Education and Research is working on the development of a B1-level language learning option in the Language Click environment, so that those with sufficient independent learning capacity can only reach a level that allows them to take a language test on the citizenship exam based on the Language Click.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U36	Now we're going to do a little detour from language learning to home and working arrangements law. § 140 of this Act allows a member of the Riigikogu to submit an oral question to the addressee of an inquiry. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U37	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Did I understand your answers correctly that quite a number of ministries are currently dealing with this subject? Ministry of Education, isn't it, Innove, Home Office adaptation program and the Ministry of Culture Migration Foundation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U38	The Ministry of Social Affairs also through the unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U39	Yeah. But is that reasonable? This hasn't been much of a silo problem in the last year, has it? Maybe there's some way we should coordinate it under someone's joint leadership.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U40	As far as language learning is concerned, as long as not all ministries are included, it is not possible to do so in the field of only one ministry, because the specifics are somewhat different. As regards whether it seems to me that the division of responsibility for organising language learning is sufficiently clear, I think that there can be a few steps forward, perhaps even a rather big step forward. But let's try to act on the principle that where you see the error, come and help.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U41	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The issue is simple and concerns language training for public sector workers. Is there a greater focus on language learning for the public sector and is it possible for people working there to receive this education faster or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U43	Yeah, absolutely. My long and comprehensive response round was also intended to describe in as detailed a way as possible what was already being done. A very large part of the language learning offered is intended for the public sector, which is predominantly carried out through the programmes of the Ministry of Education and Research. Obviously, the area in which the Ministry of Justice is involved in language learning is not traditionally referred to as the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U44	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U45	Minister, thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'll ask the Minister. What is your forecast, how many more years will it take before all residents of Estonia start speaking one hundred percent in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U46	I can't imagine a time like this could ever come. I hope that we are a dynamic society enough to have people who do not have the Estonian language to come here. I very much hope that this day will not come, that its imagination will somehow be apocalyptic, or at least that it means that no one wants to come to this country anymore, and that it is only us who we have been here for decades who are sitting here. I therefore hope that this day will not be dawned. But, of course, the greater the majority of people and the faster the Estonian language can be acquired in this country, the better, as I said at the beginning, for it gives them the opportunity to participate in the most cultural life and in the life of the whole country. It is also better for the country, because the more coherent society is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U47	Thank you very much to the Minister of Culture. The members of the Riigikogu currently have no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U48	Mr. Chairman! Minister, thank you for your answers. Good people's representatives! In fact, it is a little embarrassing that 25 years after the Republic of Estonia regained independence, we are still talking with great concern about the fact that the knowledge of the Estonian language is not equally accessible to all the citizens of our country. Indeed, there are many reasons for this. Some of them are very human and some are very social, but I can assure you here that the faction of the Estonian Free Party has taken the issue of Estonian as one of its priorities. I thank the Minister for Culture very much because I understood from his answers that the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with other ministries and still taking the lead, is trying to widen the scope of the Estonian language in the best and most broadest sense. Knowledge of the language is not only a matter of the vitality of our Estonian language, but it is also important for people who have found their own home here in Estonia, so that they feel well here and as fully-fledged citizens. What cannot satisfy us is that in a year, only 2,000 people of all people will receive the language courses they want. We cannot be satisfied that many of the older people of Russian nationality or other nationalities whose native language is not Estonian and who, unfortunately, do not speak Estonian at A1, do not have the opportunity to learn the language, although they certainly would like to. There is a problem of values, attitudes and attitudes, which obviously cannot be resolved by a single clear decision, but which requires the work and proper attitude of all, but above all that we ourselves value and appreciate our Estonian language. I was really looking at the e-dictionary. I would also like to put to the heart of the Ministry of Culture that if there are electronic teaching materials, then, please, they must be constantly improved, organized and kept busy. Otherwise, we're the kind of e-state that's gonna hang something up on the network, and then it's gonna stand there waiting for someone to find him. First of all, everything starts with attitude in the case of language, first of all, the attitude in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu. So the power of the Ministry of Culture, the power of all the other speakers of the language, but above all the power of us in this Chamber of the Riigikogu! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U49	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U50	Dear President and colleagues of the Riigikogu! It was extremely interesting here to listen to this debate. But at the same time, I join the previous speaker that it was a little sad and embarrassing, too. § 6 of the Constitution says, yes, that Estonian is the official language, but 25 years go by and we still ask when the Estonians, at least most of them, will finally be able to learn the Estonian language so that they can communicate in that language. They say there's enough money for 2,000 people a year. Actually, it should be half as much. If we start dealing with the state budget here soon, maybe we can find these relatively lousy 600000 euros in terms of the budget, then the other side, the other 2,000, could go to these courses. I'm reminding you of a guy who got paid 33000 euros a month. It was Tero Taskila, remember? As I have heard, one course costs EUR 330, so 100 people would have received free language courses for Taskila's monthly salary and 1200 people for a year's salary. Such a little nuance. I was particularly thrilled that now, on the 25th anniversary of the Estonian state, an official has come up with such a brilliant idea that, if the courses are completed in an ambivalent environment, there is nowhere to communicate in Estonian, and now there are 60 language clubs or cafés created there. That's a brilliant idea! I would be very grateful to the Minister if I could hear who this official is. I'd be happy to present him as one of the candidates for the next president's awards. That's really great! That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U51	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to make any more speeches. Is there anything else the Minister would like to say? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U52	The next question is Erki Savisaar, Kadri Simson, Peeter Ernits, Toomas Vitsut, Märt Sults, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamm, Rein Ratas, Aadu Must and Siret Kotka. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The inquiry was handed over at a given time when the road conditions were icy and the weather conditions were difficult. In such beautiful, sunny weather as today, the subject no longer seems so critical. However, the Estonian old people's wisdom says that rege rauta in the summer. We hope that the problems that have been revealed in February will be resolved beautifully by the next slippery season. The inquiry was handed over at this time, when several serious road accidents occurred on Estonian roads, some of them with a passenger bus, which is extremely regrettable. It has become clear from the facts that the principles of road maintenance have been established years ago by the Road State Requirements Regulation, which divides roads into different modes depending on the traffic frequency. Three status levels are applied on national roads. Paragraph 27 of the Regulation states that on the 3rd and 4th level roads, preventive smoothing must have been carried out throughout the roadway if, on the basis of weather forecasts, road weather data or other such data, a reduction in the adhesion factor is likely to be required. The highest state level is required for only 2100 kilometres of 16,500 national road kilometres. These are the main roads of the state, such as Tallinna-Narva, Tallinna-Tartu, Tallinna-Pärnu and a few other main roads with larger traffic and a few separate side roads. These include the Jõhvi-Tartu highway, which was the main reason for the inquiry, because unfortunately it was on the 52 km of this highway that a passenger bus and a truck crashed into the village of Rannapungerja on 7 February. According to preliminary data, a Lithuanian truck travelling from Tartu to Jõhvi lost control due to slippery traffic and leaned to the opposite zone, where it collided with a travel bus travelling from Jõhvi to Tartu. A bus driver died in the crash. The police confirmed after the accident that the road was very slippery at the scene. That same night, another accident occurred near the beach pungerja when a truck drove a ditch truck about a mile away from the road. It is not a question of why drivers did not choose the speed appropriate to traffic conditions, but of why the Road Administration does not conclude road maintenance contracts in accordance with the procedure laid down by law and why such carelessness is justified. I know that the requirements have been relaxed now, but that is not the solution. This will not reduce the likelihood of accidents of this kind. There are a number of questions to the Minister in this regard. Firstly, on the Jõhvi-Tartu road there have been stricter road safety requirements for five years, but the contract between the Road Administration and the road maintenance company does not take them into account. Why do road maintenance contracts ignore a state regulation? Who's responsible for this? Secondly, in 2011, national road maintenance requirements were tightened, which meant reviewing the road maintenance contracts concluded. Road maintenance companies, of course, wanted extra money for additional work, but the Road Administration did not have the required funds to provide. Why did the government not provide the Road Administration with sufficient resources to ensure security on Estonian roads? Third, on the night of February 7th, according to data from the road crash station, it would probably be slippery around 9:00 p.m., but the maintenance machine for the anti-slip machine only arrived on the road after the accident, several hours later. Why was there no preventive anti-smoothing required by law on the road? In addition, we have three more questions. I hope the Minister reads them out and gives the right answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U54	Reply by Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U55	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As has been said, I will answer this question according to my abilities and knowledge. I'm going to read the questions, too, because I don't think I remember them. The first question: 'The road to Tartu has already been subject to the strictest road maintenance requirements for five years, but the contract between the Road Administration and the road maintenance company does not take them into account. Why do road maintenance contracts ignore a state regulation? ' The new road condition requirements introduced on 1 November 2011 consisted in clarifying the regulation of difficult weather conditions. The definition of the maintenance cycle time was clarified and the maintenance cycle time of the condition level 1 was shortened. The maximum time for cleaning by-pass was reduced from 36 hours to 24 hours. The requirements governing snow control during snowfall and snowfall were specified, and preventive slippage control was introduced on the 3rd and 4th level roads. However, no preventive anti-smoothing requirement was introduced by the new Regulation for the night-time period when lower status levels apply. Maintenance contracts in force at the time of entry into force of the amendment to the Road Conditioning Regulation were awarded through public procurement. Additional requirements could only be included in existing maintenance contracts by negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice. Based on market prices, the Public Road Administration estimated the total cost of adding additional requirements to all contracts in force at that time to be up to EUR 3 million, while road maintenance companies charged EUR 12,5 million. Although this amount decreased in the negotiations, it remained almost three times as much as planned. By comparison, in 2012 the total cost of maintenance of the Road Administration was EUR 15.7 million. According to the Road Administration, it was not considered appropriate at the time to accept unfairly high price offers from maintenance companies. According to the Road Administration, safety on national roads did not suffer because, if roads had not complied with the requirements of the current Regulation, the Road Administration would in any way have been obliged to order additional road maintenance in addition to those provided for in the maintenance contract. Further tenders confirmed, as explained by the Public Road Administration, their assessment that the additional offers for road maintenance exceeded the reasonable price level. There were also examples to the contrary: prices agreed with Rapla County and AS Eesti Teed proved realistic and cost-based. Question two: '2011. In 2008, national road maintenance requirements were tightened. This meant reviewing the road maintenance contracts concluded. For additional work, the road maintenance companies also requested additional funding. However, the Road Administration had no additional resources required. Why did the government not provide the Road Administration with sufficient resources to ensure safety on Estonian roads? 'The Public Road Administration had and has been allocated sufficient resources with the state budget to carry out all the tasks entrusted to the road owners, including the means for road maintenance, as required by the public contracts, are reflected in the Public Road Administration's budget classification. Why did the Road Administration leave the contracts unchanged? The answer is in their assessment at the time, as I explained in the previous point. The Road Administration estimated that changing maintenance contracts due to status requirements cost a total of EUR 3 million, while maintenance companies asked about three times more. Companies took a dominant position in the area covered by the contract and were able to charge a higher price than the market price to meet the additional requirements. The Road Administration, in turn, did not consider such an amount and so much spending of taxpayers' funds to be appropriate, since compliance with the status requirements by ordering additional work, if necessary, would have been significantly cheaper and therefore planned to amend the contracts gradually. The third question: 'Against Monday, the road crashes became slippery, according to data from road weather stations, expected around 9:00 p.m. A road maintenance machine for anti-slip treatment did not reach the highway until after the accident. Why was there no preventive anti-smoothing required by law on the road? ' According to the Road Conditioning Regulation, winter 3 status level applies on State Road No 3 (Jõhvi-Tartu-Valga), except 22.00-06.00, when status level 2 applies. During the night, no preventive anti-slip treatment is required and slippage must be eliminated within eight hours. Thus, the section of the road met the requirements of the Regulation and the maintenance contract. Nevertheless, in February, I asked the Road Administration to review existing contracts and winter care requirements and to act. At the same time, I am sure to point out, as mentioned earlier, that, apart from the use of common sense, the driver must, according to the traffic law, apply his vehicle to the speed situation. The driver shall take into account his driving experience, road conditions, road and vehicle condition, load characteristics, weather conditions, traffic density and other traffic conditions in order to be able to stop within the vehicle's forward visibility range and in front of any obstacle foreseeable on the road. This must always be remembered in order for all of us to be on our way home safely. Question 4: 'On the night of January 28, Jõhvi was also driven by a bus on the highway of Tartu. The accident happened again at one o'clock in the morning and the road was very slippery. After the accident, were any conclusions drawn that road maintenance did not meet the required level on the road? ' This traffic accident took place on State Road No 3 (Jõhvi-Tartu-Valga) on the eighth km in Puru village in Jõhvi rural municipality, Ida-Virumaa, on 29 January at 00.42 p.m. The requirements for the condition of the road were the same as those described in the previous paragraph and both the requirements of the current Regulation and the maintenance contract were met. As has been said, road safety is also the responsibility of the owner of the road. In order to fulfil its obligation, the Public Road Administration will monitor the state of the roads on an ongoing basis and the road conditions of all road accidents will be analysed and, if necessary, appropriate measures taken. As an additional measure, additional maintenance requirements have been introduced in maintenance contracts for level 3 roads, i.e. "level 3+', leading to an improvement in the winter status of major public roads. Level 3+ means that during the day, 5.00-23.00, the enhanced slippage protection requirements apply, the maintenance cycle has been reduced by two hours and the slippage is eliminated within two hours. In the case of level 3, four hours are provided for this. During the night, 23.00-05.00, mode level 3 is valid, which also requires preventive smoothing. As a result, the night's condition on these roads will be improved. This level is valid at 341 km in total on the different sections of Tallinna-Narva, Tallinna-Tartu-Võru-Luhamaa and Tallinna-Pärnu-Ikla road. By the autumn of this year, i.e. the next winter service season, it is planned to be extended to main highways No 1 (Tallinna-Narva), No 3 (Jõhvi-Tartu-Valga), No 4 (Tallinna-Pärnu-Ikla), No 8 (Tallinna-Paldiski) and No 11 (Tallinna ring road) in the entire length and on main highway No 2 (Tallinna-Tartu-Võru-Luhamaa) to the Võru ring road. The Public Road Administration organises a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice in order to enter new requirements into maintenance contracts. These activities will also update those contracts that do not take into account the changes made to the Status Requirements Regulation in 2011. If negotiations fail, alternatives such as the termination of existing maintenance contracts and the organisation of new procurement procedures will also be considered. Question 5: '2014. In 2008, the coalition passed a law amending the Tea Act in the Riigikogu, according to which the financing of the road network is not dependent on excise duties being collected, but the sums of money are set in the state budget strategy. How much is it planned to allocate over the next five years from the state budget to the financing of the road network? " 2017/2020. The public budget strategy for 2016 - the RES project - is planned to finance the road network: EUR 207,3 million in 2016, EUR 209,3 million in 2017, EUR 227,6 million in 2018, and so in the future, for the years 2019 to 2020. This will be complemented by EUR 200 million from the Cohesion Fund, which will build and reconstruct the main roads in the trans-European transport network for the period 2014 to 2019. In addition, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has submitted to the Ministry of Finance 2017. In the context of the preparation of the 2005 RES, an additional request for an increase in the financing of road services by an estimate of the revenue of excise duties on fuel and the amounts envisaged in the RES project, including an additional EUR 5 million for local roads. Question 6: "Which areas do you know that road maintenance contracts do not comply with the Tea Status Regulation? ' During the last five years, the Road Condition Regulation has been amended three times. For the first time, the amendments entered into force on 1 November 2011, it was a strengthening of the substantive changes and requirements. The second time the amendments entered into force on 30 January 2015, the requirements were clarified, the status requirements were essentially unchanged. The third amendment procedure was adopted on 14 July 2015, when the Road Act became invalid due to the entry into force of the Construction Code, the status requirements were not amended. The Act, which entered into force on 1 November 2011, does not comply with the Agreement between Põlva County, Kuusalu Region and Keila Region. As of 1 April 2016, the Ida-Viru County Agreement is in force, which corresponds to the last version of the State Requirements Regulation. In order to bring the Põlva County and Kuusalu and Keila regions into compliance with the current status requirements regulation and to add additional requirements, as mentioned above, for level 3+ to be established, the Public Road Administration organises negotiated procedures without prior publication of a contract. I hope that this time, care companies will charge a reasonable fee. If negotiations fail, alternatives such as the termination of existing maintenance contracts and the organisation of new procurement procedures will also be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U56	Questions for the Minister. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Last winter is clearly remembered by the fact that there were more accidents than ever before. At least they got to the media more. What do you think the reason is? Was it simply because we had a warm autumn and during that time winter driving techniques were forgotten, or has our road conditions really got worse over the last few years? Is there a problem here with road maintenance, or is the asphalt that has been laid down lately much smoother than, say, the asphalt used ten years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U58	Thank you. As I mentioned, when an accident occurs, the Road Administration and the police are always doing the analysis that caused it. Each accident has its own unique cause, although statistics tend to repeat these causes. I didn't give you the general statistics, but it's definitely in the Road Administration's annual report. If I remember correctly, so few people had died on Estonian roads since 1945. The number of deaths has decreased. However, the overall number of accidents and injuries are still at the same level as in previous years. Specialists in the Road Administration, as well as traffic experts in the Road Committee, say that there is a decrease in the number of deaths, but they do not dare to predict that this would be a fundamental change in trend, even though the goal should be fewer and fewer deaths. We will certainly be discussing the condition requirements of roads, including the quality of their construction and ways of making them safe, in the future road safety programmes. Once again, for each accident, it is necessary to determine what its particular cause was. It's really hard to say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U59	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The figures you gave me in response to your inquiry, the hours and volumes, they're all very correct. Very good. But unfortunately, this winter was truly extraordinary. Very much we heard-we saw messages in the media that buses drove off the road and so on. Maybe there was a problem with surveillance. Maybe the same roadkeepers did a little cheating and didn't do their job properly?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U61	Thank you. Monitoring shall be carried out at least to verify compliance with the current status requirements. As mentioned, there are individual sections where status requirements should become stricter for the next period. We have discussed supervision with traffic experts at the Road Administration and asked if there are any new ideas. In fact, there are a number of techniques here, because the measurement of road slippage is still taking place in such a way that it can be measured in certain places, these cars are few. Well, at least now we're testing new technology, but I can't tell you if it's going to work in the future. I know that Finns are experimenting with this possibility of placing a slippery and information-providing device on public transport vehicles so that they can continuously provide feedback and more operational supervision. You asked before your colleague the same question as how these events are becoming more and more accessible to the media. Maybe that's what shows that traffic has gotten safer, every accident gets more attention. In any case, it is better that fewer accidents occur, and that is what we all agree with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U62	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U63	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You said the Road Administration had been given enough money. That's great. This year, the roads were pretty slippery, not snowy. We remember five or six years ago when many cars were standing in the snow for two or three days on the Narva highway in Padaoru. As a minister, are you convinced that we will be ready when there will be great snow, and will we have enough resources? At all, what has changed in this area in these five or six years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U64	Thank you. In fact, you are absolutely right, because of this Padaoru case of 9 December 2010, this tightening of road maintenance requirements came in Estonia. On the other hand, Estonian Teed was formed from the merger of small road maintenance companies, so that the necessary capacity would be available and perhaps a better reference from this market would be made to make it clear how the road maintenance market works. Now there are capacities and resources, and I hope that lessons have been learned from this Padaoru case as well. Surely, as we have seen, there may always be natural events that humans cannot control, but we can be as prepared as possible for them. I expect the Estonian state to be ready for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U65	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U66	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I guess the media's attention was related to the accident involving buses and several foreign citizens. It always happened on one highway, Jõhvi-Tartu. There's gotta be something out of place in there. As a general rule, if an accident has occurred, the road will be salted very quickly and the situation will improve. Why is it always late? Why can't prevention be done, because we know when the temperature is falling, etc.? Why are you late for this first salting? It's not just on this highway. When we travel around Estonia, we see that this is the case in many places. Prevention could prevent an accident. Should we review the requirements? Unfortunately, this first salt will be delayed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U67	Thank you. This issue, prevention of slippage and the ability to predict changes in traffic conditions has been discussed with road maintenance companies and the Road Administration. If, at the beginning, it was perhaps even worried that it might become more expensive, then now some of the feedback from entrepreneurs and the Road Administration will say that it may even be more cost-effective if you correctly predict and do your job first. I am just talking about road maintenance, not about possible accidents, which is undoubtedly a very important aspect. This mechanism is being improved, but, as you know, the weather station does not get weather forecasting with the precision that we can produce ex post statistics, and it is old black humor that winter usually comes in the city as the biggest surprise for road maintenance companies. I hope that the situation will improve and prevention will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U68	Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There will be no negotiation. I don't think the Minister's gonna say anything about that either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U69	Next is the inquiry submitted by Mikhail Korbi, Tarmo Tamme, Rein Ratas, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Viktor Vassilyev and Oudekki Loone. On behalf of the heirs, Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I would like to make an inquiry into the taxi service. When it comes to history, taxi service has always been a painful topic for Tallinn. For years, Tallinn has been fighting a notorious taxi mafia, a pirate taxi. Tallinn was also one of the leaders, thanks to whom the Public Transport Act was made quite harsh. According to this law, taxi drivers have been given a number of requirements that they need to know and what equipment they need to have. Our request for information relates to the fact that from 2015 there is a very well-known taxi company, Uber, operating in Estonia. Following him, other companies offering taxi calling or mediation services, such as Taxify, have changed their working concept and allow ordinary people who do not meet the legal requirements for a taxi driver to provide taxi transport services. They're doing it in public, they're already doing it. It has happened that the Estonian police have also hit such service providers. In the course of the procedure, however, it is concluded that this is a pirate service and that a fine has been imposed for it. This could be considered the official position of the Estonian authorities. Despite all of this, the provision of such a service continues and it is now known that a bill has been initiated in the Riigikogu with the aim of legitimising the so-called collaborative economy. Of course, there is talk of a good and great goal that if you drive from Mustamäe, Lasnamäe or Viimsi in the morning to work downtown, why don't you have a chance to pick up your neighbor's car and get some money for it? It's all beautiful and nice, but it usually happens that some people work like this for eight to ten hours a day and make hundreds of euros. Sorry, but there is no way to call this a collaborative economy; this is specifically a pirate service, which is very precisely regulated in the Public Transport Act. In the light of these events, we asked the Minister four questions. We want to understand what direction we are going in, whether the taxi service is no longer regulated at all, and whether anyone can offer this service, or whether some rules or restrictions remain in this area. We hope to have meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U71	I would ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U72	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I answer the question and I still read the questions, as usual. The first question: 'Section 3 (2) of the Public Transport Act states that taxi transport is the carriage of passengers in road traffic to the desired destination of the customer or to the place ordered by the passenger by means of a public car adapted to the taxi, as well as waiting for the passenger in a taxi stop or in a place agreed with the passenger. Do you think Uber offers taxi or driving-sharing services? Doesn't yesterday's Estonian police decision give a clear indication that Uber's service is a taxi service? ' The rapid development of technology changes the patterns of consumption of people, users of services. In many areas, from accommodation to the provision of services, the collaborative economy is changing in principle. Estonia's choice has been to support innovation. This is also in the interests of Estonian consumers. The fundamental course is not to ban, but to allow and create an environment that is in the interests of the consumer and the entrepreneurial person. For each service, you need to look at the content. The name of the company providing the service alone does not yet determine the nature of the service. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is of the opinion that driving distribution is legal in nature and, if a more precise framework is needed, we will help it to happen. The draft itself uses the term "routine carriage' for the purpose of driving distribution, which has not yet been subject to any requirements. Only paid passenger transport registered in the relevant electronic system shall be considered to be an agreed service. This system, in turn, must meet certain requirements. For example, it must keep records of the journeys carried out, while ensuring the confidentiality of passenger data, display the driver's name and vehicle registration plate when ordering the journey, all service charges, etc. The service must also be clearly distinguishable from the taxi service and the vehicle carrying out the carriage must not bear the identification marks of the taxi. While in the case of taxi services, the Public Transport Act regulates the protection of the rights of the customer separately, the law on the law of obligations must be the basis for the resolution of disputes. There must certainly not be over-regulating driving distribution so that drivers providing services retain the possibility of providing this service as an attractive additional source of income. Practice shows that each customer's assessment of the driver is an effective and permanent control of the quality of service. If the driver's average rating falls below a certain level, the account will be blocked and the service operator will continue to deal with the driver in working order. The second question: "Do you think that today there is unfair competition between the taxi service provided under the Classical and Public Transport Act and the service provided by Uber, because drivers providing the latter service are not required to comply with the requirements of the Public Transport Act? " As has already been said, the rapid development of technology results in a change in people's consumption patterns and expectations. In the case of taxi services, when the consumer's rights are governed by the Public Transport Act, the dispute in the distribution of transport is settled in accordance with the Law of Obligations Act. In the case of a driving-sharing service, taxi identifiers are not used, so Uber, Taxify or any such service is a driving-sharing service, not a taxi service. More broadly, we will certainly be able to discuss developments in economic models due to changes in technology and consumption patterns in a number of areas. Personally, I assume that this is an advantage and opportunity rather than a problem in a fast innovative Estonia. Question 3: 'Is the draft to be launched next week coordinated with the Estonian Taxi Drivers' Association and what is the Union's position on the draft? Why is the draft initiated by Riigikogu ambassadors rather than by the government? ' The initiation of the bill is a legal right of members of the Riigikogu, which the Government of the Republic certainly does not have the right to comment or criticise. According to the explanatory memorandum of the 26 members of the Riigikogu, the draft has been drawn up in cooperation with representatives of interest groups. Whether one of the interest groups was the Estonian Taxi Leaders' Association, this should be asked from the initiators of the draft. However, the initiators of the draft have clearly stated that all interested parties will be involved in the proceedings in the Riigikogu. Last week, the government put forward a number of ideas on how the draft could be improved and, for its part, also recommended involving all stakeholders. We are also ready to help ourselves, as we have already done in practice. Question 4: "Why is such a legislative amendment being initiated in the interests of one of the interest groups? How is it certain that the members of the Riigikogu who initiate the draft work of this lobbyist will comply with the good practice of lobbying? Wouldn't it be safer for the government to initiate the bill? ' As I referred to earlier, the initiation of drafts is a right granted to members of the Riigikogu by law, so as not to say even the work for which the taxpayer pays them their remuneration. The issue of driving distribution has been of great public interest, and a quick response and discussion deserve my recognition rather than my reprehensibility. The largest category of service is probably forgotten. It is here, by the way, everyday service users who have the opportunity to choose between alternative services and thus have a positive impact on the price/quality ratio. Every person and consumer in Estonia has a better quality service and a cheaper price than the competition and free market. The requirements set out in the draft act have a direct impact on carriers, taxi drivers, persons wishing to offer an arrangement and the operator of the arrangement system, apart from consumers. I repeat what has already been said: this bill must be discussed with all of them in order to find the best solution. Finally. I have also said several times in public that it is in the interests of Estonian consumers to use all new solutions. At the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, at the very beginning, we took the view that we would keep the market open, take consumer benefits and aim for a reasonable solution. Very quickly, the tax administration, which has a very innovative reputation in Estonia and, as you can see, not just like that, came along with the same attitude. The Tax Administration immediately started to consider solutions to ensure the correct tax behaviour of such services, by the way, together with the companies organising the provision of these services. This cooperation is ongoing. The joint venture between the Tax Administration and the Riigikogu has caused a slight wave across Europe and more widely. In a situation where many countries have taken new opportunities as a problem, there is one country that can find solutions and sees opportunities. Therefore, from a broader perspective, this is a question of the principle of which Estonia we want, whether or not to renew and become ever smarter. The decision-makers, by the way, are still sitting in this room, not elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U73	Questions for the Minister. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U74	Good manager! Good minister! I was surprised to hear it was a driving-sharing service, but not a taxi service. That means flying isn't flying and crawling isn't crawling. My question is this: does this draft by Mr Palling also have an intention to develop, together with impact analyses? The current Minister of Justice loves to repeat that it is not worth coming out of the bill at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U75	Thank you. I need to clarify a number of things now. Firstly, this is a draft initiated by 26 members of the Riigikogu. Secondly, the principles of good lawmaking have been in force for years. When I was the Minister of Justice myself, I stood up for them. At that time, the principles on the basis of which the drafts were drawn up were actually born. The decision of the Riigikogu has so far been that these principles do not apply to the Riigikogu in this form. If you wish, you can take the lead in amending this decision, I certainly support it. However, members of the Riigikogu do not have to draw up plans for drafting. If you want, you can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U76	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Your position on inhibiting innovation is understandable, but it is not about this, nobody is trying to stop innovation or new technology. What we're talking about is that the rules have to be the same for everyone. If someone offers a taxi service, it must be covered by Chapter 8 of the Public Transport Act, which sets out the conditions to be met in a taxi service. But I want to ask you another question. I'll give you an example right now, but there could be any company here. For example, Uber collects money from customers and then transfers it to the service provider. Who has to pay VAT, Uber or taxi driver?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U78	Tax solutions will be developed in cooperation with the tax administration. If you want to know more, you can definitely describe in detail how far they have come. You are concerned about tax behaviour and you mentioned this problem that there has been a lot of black taxis. In the case of Uber, a positive example is that all models of the collaborative economy are structured in such a way that cash is almost not settled there. I am not saying that cash flow and the use of cash to pay for services are wrong, but new collaborative economic models, including Uber, are still such that the customer uses a card payment to pay. This means that the tax administration will be able to monitor all of this and, in fact, the managers will be able to keep track of it very well. In this key, this new economy is fiscally, I would say, as an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U79	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U80	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You've been serving as a minister for one year in such a position of honor. But a year ago, there was no word spoken of taxiing, neither in the government nor in the press. And now all of a sudden! Well, maybe that's what I'd like to question. When did they start talking to you about Uber wanting to come to our taxi market?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U81	Thank you. Before, as you said, I came to an honorable position as a minister, I guess I haven't had a year yet, I suspect that a few days have left, I was your colleague in the Committee on Economic Affairs in this very house, dealing, by the way, with public transport law, taxi transport and all the cabs' mathematics. There was a long debate on this at the time. It discussed how the market could actually be organised, and there were a number of solutions, including the fixing of different prices and everything else that belonged to it. At the time, the idea was that if regulation were to be much stricter, it would be an opportunity for our common shame stains, tourists to peel, perhaps people's coming out of the party and anything else to use, illegal or, at least, walking on the edge of legality, to call them taxi drivers, awkward to get out of the market. But at one point, technological progress led to a change in people's habits. That's what I'm referring to. The same thing happens in the whole collaborative economy, this whole technological change. Accommodation uses a wide range of services, and different options are used to provide services. This could be a much better way to fix this market. The exact date when it was discussed, I do not remember, but when new services come, in fact, they are much better monitored electronically, such as e-elections, etc., many things that we may have different opinions about, then I am rather in favour of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U82	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Taxi is a very strictly regulated area, and there were reasons for creating these regulations. Are these requirements and restrictions being over-exploited, and should we also take a step back in the Public Transport Act if we now place on the market service providers that do not absolutely have to comply with this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U84	Thank you. That is the question that the legislator must discuss, perhaps, in this Chamber, in the Committee on Economic Affairs and everywhere else. You guys can be a part of it the same way. I used to describe this genesis. In Tallinn, especially, there have been problems with taxis for a long time and they have not been overcome. The idea used to be that when specific prices were set, how high the price can be when driving anywhere, it kind of helps. It turns out that, in the meantime, technological progress has led to the fact that when a person orders a car with this app, the driver, the end point and the cost of the car are all very clearly known, which in itself precludes black business in the taxi market. The effect that cleans up the taxi market is sure to be there. Should we review the taxi market? I think it's inevitable to watch. I know that the draft has made proposals in this area. This must now be discussed, including with those involved, what the perception of taxi drivers is. But more generally, even the new players in the collaborative economy do not have this carriage without proper rules, it is not worth creating such an impression. I dare say that our daily feedback is much more effective than the formal review of this permit once in a few years. If you get in a car that is not okay, if the driver is unable to drive or if there are other problems, you will give, as mentioned, bad feedback and at some point this driver will leave this company. So this is perhaps even a faster and more effective measure. In addition, the age of the car, the punishment of the driver, and all that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U85	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U86	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. There is no added value for the state of this collaborative economy in taxicabing. I'm afraid the state is losing quite a bit in taxes. I am concerned that, as far as I know, this Uber is not particularly welcome anywhere in Europe and there is probably no country in Europe where it would have been legalised. Interestingly, the Prime Minister met with Uber's representatives on a state visit to America. Is there no conflict of interest here? But if a taxi service is provided through Uber, how will it be ensured that the car is clean and clean and that the driver, for example, complies with the Employment Contracts Act? How is it checked that if a person who's been behind an eight-hour trailer goes to Uber tonight, he'll meet the work and rest requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U87	Thank you. Theoretically, the legislator might also work 12 hours in a row and then go for a drive after that. There is also this theoretical possibility. As I mentioned, the company itself has standards, including that the driver must not be penalised, the requirements are also imposed on cars, and ultimately the customer will assess. I think it's urgent to exchange feedback, we're all able to decide whether we were served properly, whether the driver was on the level or whether the car was in order. There's everything else coming from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U88	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You will also have an overview of the assessments and positions of the Estonian Taxi Drivers' Association. What do you think is most noteworthy and perhaps worth considering about these assessments and views of Uber coming here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U90	Thank you. In general terms, perhaps the most important question, which has also been mentioned here in the course of the inquiry, is that the market is as simple and transparent as possible, taxes are paid and uniform treatment is, of course, different. I think that in the future, it will be a question of what is a trade deal. This is what you will be discussing here in Parliament in what way it will be referred to, what is the volume, when it comes to the transport of agreements, and from which it will become something else. This is actually the subject of this bill. That is why I think it is very positive that this debate was launched in Parliament and that all the parties here are summed up for this purpose. One major event has already taken place on this subject and there will probably be more. But I think, yes, just the same, that it is important that it be understood by who and what it points to.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U91	There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U92	The following question is submitted by Tarmo Tamm, Märt Sults, Erki Savisaar, Dmitri Dmitriev, Kadri Simson, Jaanus Karilaid, Valeri Korb and Viktor Vassilyev. Tarmo Tamm, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U93	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Our question is about the mass burning of wood. The Auvere power plant cost the State EUR 638 million, and in order to ensure that the value of the plant in the current economic situation does not fall very sharply and to save the investments made, the government has promised to use large quantities of wood as a raw material for the plant. Buying timber in large quantities inevitably increases the price of timber across Estonia, especially in Eastern and Lääne-Virumaa. Both wood hunters and traders who use wood as raw materials are victims. The situation of companies is not made easier by the restrictions imposed by Russia on the export of its timber and which prevent the importation of timber from Russia. Mass burning of wood a few years ago increased the price of timber over Estonia by 15% on average and by 40% in Ida-Viru County. Today, there is talk of the burning of wood on a ten-fold scale, which has already led some companies to stop their investments. For example, here are the producers of granules. Currently, the Auvere plant has been speculated on burning 3 to 5 million cubic metres of wood per year. It should be noted that the current cutting volume across Estonia is 10 million cubic metres of circa. The increase in Estonian forests is approximately 12 million cubic metres of timber per year. The part of this used (including logging) is only 8.4 million cubic metres, which means that logging may start to exceed the growth of the forest. To clarify this, we have six questions to ask the Minister. It would be good if the Minister read them and then answered them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U94	Answers Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, who will also read the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U95	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear members of the Riigikogu, honored heirs! As promised, I will read the questions. The first question: 'How much timber will Eesti Energia burn at the Auvere power plant? What is the efficiency of the plant in case of wood burning? ' On 14 January this year, the government gave its principal consent to allow Narva Power Plants to participate in the statistical transmission of renewable energy when the statistics required by another Member State exceed the quantity of free statistics in Estonia. The Government considered that before the entry into force of such a statistical transfer agreement, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, had to carry out an analysis of the impact of the use of wood for statistical trade on the timber market. To sum up, the amount of wood used depends on how much the other Member State wants to buy renewable energy statistics from Estonia and what the impact of this transaction on the Estonian timber market would be. In Narva Power Plants, the efficiency of electricity generation is 35% to 40%. There is Estonia's most efficient electricity production equipment. In comparison, the efficiency of electricity generation in cogeneration plants is 15 to 35%. The Narva Power Plants of Eesti Energia are able to use up to 3 million cubic metres of low-value timber per year; you had been a bit wrong about this speculation. Wood is currently not used in this volume, as it is not economically viable or the cost price of oil shale-produced electricity is currently cheaper. At the same time, the situation may change if the costs of using oil shale are increased, such as the price of the CO2 quota, compared to the costs of using wood. At the same time, it is quite likely that, in the long term, the switch to the use of wood in oil shale power plants can also take place regardless of the decisions of the Government of the Republic. Using a million cubic metres of forest waste would create over 2,300 new jobs in forestry, starting in Virumaa. Wood burning creates jobs and brings tens of millions of euros to Estonia. Estonia could generate 20 million euros in revenue from one razor. The second question: 'How much of the wood waste to be burned is it? Given that five cubic metres of forest must be cut for a million low-value wooden cubic metres, what about the rest of the wood? " So far, forest owners have not been interested in increasing the value of low-value timber, and the buying-in price has been too low and has not covered the costs of transporting low-value timber from the bar. This means that low-value timber is left on the lang. As a result, the increase in the use of low-value wood does not lead to an increase in the volume of felling in the same volume. Support for renewable electricity produced for statistical trade purposes shall be granted only to the extent that another Member State is willing to pay. Estonian consumers do not pay a renewable energy fee for electricity produced for statistical trade. Support for the production of renewable electricity from wood develops in competition with other technologies: wind, solar, etc. This will ensure that there is no overcompensation. Given the price per cubic metre of the log and the potential income from the trade in statistics, it is unlikely that valuable wood will be used to produce electricity. The third question: 'The companies exporting fruit products are concerned about the approaching price increase, because, as raw materials become more expensive, their production will not be able to compete on foreign markets under today's economic conditions. To what extent are you prepared that, as a result of a government decision, a certain proportion of timber-worthy companies who have worked hard to do so and invested in it will cease their activities or transfer their activities to another country? 'In order to prevent local anomalies in the timber market, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, will prepare an analysis of the impact of wood used on the timber market and the impact of the transaction on other wood-using companies before the entry into force of the statistical transfer agreement. At the same time, the price of timber is formed in the regional market, i.e. the price of energy wood is affected by the development of the entire region, not by the addition of just one consumer. Estonia has sufficient resources to meet the needs of both the energy sector and other sectors. Only logging waste is used for the production of electricity. The increased demand for logging waste represents a more favourable opportunity to harvest valuable timber. So far, low-value timber has largely remained in the forest, and the loss of revenue was not added to the price of valuable timber. According to the Ministry of the Environment, the unused potential of energy wood in Estonia is up to 3.6 million cubic metres per year in view of the cutting volumes of recent years. The biomass market, be it said, extends beyond the borders of the country. We export timber waste from Estonia to Scandinavian countries, in compressed form to Great Britain, Italy, etc. For example, Scandinavia buys wood chips from African countries and Canada. Lithuania has a fully functioning biomass market. Question 4: "Is the government's decision to allow the mass burning of wood on Eesti Energia compatible with the state aid authorised by the European Commission? State aid authorisation No SA of the European Commission in support of renewable energy production. 36023 makes it possible to pay for co-incineration depending on the market price of CO2 quotas. The European Commission has therefore agreed to pay support for the burning of wood used in Narva Power Plants. We will certainly keep the European Commission's draft up to date. Question 5: 'The Prime Minister of today's government has at least supported smart solutions in words. In the wood sector, smarter solutions mean deserving wood, not heating the furnace. Why does the government not support smart solutions in its activities? " Production of low-quality wood energy is a clever use, leaving wood to rot under the forest is unwise use. The timber that will be used in power plants in the event of a successful trade in statistics is currently largely forested. Any solution that helps to exploit this resource for the benefit of the economy is smarter than leaving a usable resource in the forest. The use of wood in the framework of statistics trade increases the resource efficiency of the Estonian forest industry as a whole. Question 6: "Does and how does the government intend to compensate the population for the rise in heating prices following the rise in the price of timber? " As I explained in the previous responses, trade in statistics has little impact on the price of district heating. The Government of the Republic has also provided safeguards to rule out this threat. In addition, measures to support people in energy-efficient renovation of apartment buildings are open. The positive impact of energy saving measures on public utility costs is long-term and sustainable. However, it is clear that contributing to the export of Estonian companies, which is essentially the trade in statistics, will help to improve the general state of the Estonian economy and give the assumption that the people of Estonia's lives will be improved. Moreover, trade in statistics can bring savings to the consumer as an opportunity. The revenue from sales may reduce consumer tariffs. Finally, I repeat, this is an export and job creation that will not burden Estonian consumers. Using one million cubic metres of forest waste would be a start that would create more than 2,300 jobs in forestry, starting in Virumaa. One sharp hour means circa 20 million euros for Estonia in total. This is undoubtedly an important decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U96	Questions for the Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U97	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I want to clarify the efficiency thing that you once briefly stopped on. However, on many sides of the media, I have noticed the claims that the efficiency of burning wood in Auvere could be, yes, 35 to 40%, as you said, but in small CHP plants it is up to 90%. You mentioned the generation of electricity in these small plants, but if you add heat, what's going to come together?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U98	Yeah, you probably asked for a different bill. The efficiency ranges for electricity generation were what I called them. Indeed, there are stations that are even more beneficial than what you have said, they are cogeneration plants. As far as trade in statistics is concerned, it is actually based on this possibility. What we can trade at least in the first phase is the same statistics that result from these benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U99	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U100	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Minister! Euro Directive 2009/28/EC states: 'In the case of biomass, Member States shall favour conversion technologies that achieve a conversion efficiency of at least 70% for industrial use. ' At Auvere Station, this efficiency is 40%, more than twice as high in cogeneration plants. To what extent is the financial support for the burning of wood in Narva Power Plants in line with this Euro Directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U101	Thank you. Once again, it is not the burning of wood that the Estonian consumer should pay for. The countries that buy the statistics pay for it. That's the statistics trade. We have also discussed in the government the possibility that effective cogeneration in Narva, which Andres Ammas asked about and which is more efficient, and the part where heat is lost, as you probably know, but could both be exploited and, let's say, brought to the national mechanism. Today, however, we are still discussing only the part of what goes outside, the trade in statistics, we are not competing with it in the internal market.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U102	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U103	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. How sure are you that Eesti Energia will manage to sell electricity as part of the statistics trade? What is your fortress based on? What are the first examples on which you can claim that we are able to sell it at all? If we fail to sell it, will it still be burned?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U104	Thank you. There can't be 100% certainty if the deal hasn't been made. I'm interested. As you have probably seen and heard from the press, there are many countries that have met renewable energy targets and are interested in them. Such a discussion is ongoing in the European Union. Will we be able to take advantage of this? We can recall different success stories that did not seem possible at first. Tallinn became new trams and many other things have been purchased for this money. Is this gonna work? I really hope it works. The Estonian state is actually the maker of these transactions. Since Estonia has met these objectives, this market could also be larger in the future. If these transactions fail, then statistical trade is still an outward-looking mechanism, as I said in reply to the previous question, and if we want to use the internal mechanism, it would be cheaper for the consumer, but perhaps it would compete with those 'offers' coming from cogeneration plants. This requires a separate decision. This has not been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U105	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Here is the fundamental question of how wood burning in Auvere contributes to the construction of new renewable energy production capacities, which should be the primary objective of supporting renewable energy. What we are seeing now is that Granul Invest is opening its plant in Latvia, because the business environment there is more favourable than ours. Is it really the right thing for us to pay off the support for renewable energy, essentially, an oil shale power plant?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U107	Thank you. You had a number of assumptions. First, a comparison of the business environment in Estonia and Latvia. I would be interested in what you consider the business environment in Latvia to be more favourable, but we can discuss this later. That's one. Secondly, with regard to the construction of new production capacities, new production capacities have come and probably will come in the future, but of course the market will restrict it. Speaking of statistics trade, as I said, it is not a national measure, but it is, let's say, a good that is paid for by a consumer in a country where these objectives have not been met, and that money comes to Estonia. This means that it is an export. As a bonus, we can create new jobs. Like I said, a million cubic metres means over 2,300 new jobs. In Narva, as mentioned earlier, the power could be up to 3 million cubic metres.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U108	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I'm not guessing, I'm asking a very simple question. The Auvere power plant cost €638 million. Please tell me why we still need this station.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U110	Thank you. It has been discussed in public for a long time, but since you asked briefly, I will also answer briefly. The government made this decision on the basis of the principles of energy security and security of supply and energy independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U111	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. As regards the burning of wood, you said that we are also talking about exports and job creation, especially in the case of Virumaa. However, we are talking about the network charges of Eesti Energia, where we have already actually lost a competitive advantage compared to our neighbouring countries. This is crucial for the industrial parks in Virumaa and the jobs they create. Are there any changes to the question of network charges to be expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U113	Thank you. Yes, I've also been in close contact with industrial parks in Ida-Virumaa. As you probably know, we found extra money for them. It's gotten really busy there, though. As they say, it's been a long time since we've had such an interest in coming to industrial parks. This is undoubtedly a very serious success story in the industrial parks of Ida-Viru County. With regard to network charges, differentiation of renewable energy charges and so on, all this issue has been discussed. My colleague Liisa Oviir has made various proposals on this subject. The energy side of our ministry is going to take it up for review, and the excise duties are probably being reviewed by the Ministry of Finance, so we can describe it. I guess there's two components, like I said before. In fact, if any advantage is granted, it must be seen that they do not give rise to any difficulty for other stakeholders, smaller companies, etc. So all of this needs to be reviewed as to whether incentives should be granted to new entrants, specifically to whom, etc. I believe that this may be a matter for the coming months or, I do not know, it can be discussed at length in Parliament during the autumn season.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned various figures here. Please repeat how much wood it takes to produce electricity for 1 terawatt-hours! How much electricity can be produced for this 3.5 million cubic metres?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U115	Maybe I'll go over it, then it'll be easier for everyone to watch. A million cubic metres is estimated to be the amount we'd start with. The power Narva could use is actually 3 million cubic metres. A million cubic metres, as has been said before, is estimated to create over 2,300 jobs in forestry. Depending on the price we can negotiate, it would bring about EUR 20 million in export earnings throughout this chain.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U116	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U117	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have been a member of the Committee on the Environment for many years. Interestingly, in this decade, the figures are how much we can take the forest out of Estonia, say, 10 and 11 million, the last time I heard economic people sitting at the table talking about 16 million. So I don't know what to believe. But sometimes I feel sorry for you when I listen to you. By the way, thank you very much, you've been to Ida-Virumaa most of the ministers! When I listen to what's going on in Ida-Viru County, sometimes I wonder if you believe in the numbers you're talking about. When we're talking about burning wood pulp, we're talking about Ida-Virumaa again. Economically, it is useful to bring timber from a maximum distance of 50 kilometres. This means that the forest will first be cut down to burn wood again in Ida-Virumaa. I do not believe that timber will be delivered from Latvia or somewhere in Africa. Why Ida-Virumaa again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U118	The answer is very simple. The fact that jobs are created in Ida-Virumaa, in Viru County as a whole, as I have mentioned, is the point. As I mentioned earlier, however, the biomass market and the market for forest waste are larger today, these regions being larger. It is still a market that is no longer local in many respects, but is traded more widely. Of course, the economic effect is greater by bringing closer wood. But if you ask why to do this in Virumaa, I will say that all of this would create jobs in Virumaa, as we have said, and on the side of forestry it has been said that there are these capacities. It is rather a good result, that is what we would like to get from an economic point of view. This is the same as when jobs are created in industrial parks. You're asking me if I believe these figures are true. The example of industrial parks has shown that they are on schedule with additional investments and activities and are able to create jobs. Once again, if we succeed in making these transactions, the creation of jobs in forestry is completely real. On our economic side, indeed, as you mentioned, these figures do not come up with themselves, we are asking the forestry side, the Ministry of the Environment, for their assessment. Here it has been discussed whether this way is correct, maybe we should rather create new capacities and use these grants elsewhere. Once again, there is nothing to confuse here with national energy subsidies, which are for one purpose and to which the trade in statistics does not claim. Statistics trade still means the remuneration paid by other countries, which does not burden the Estonian consumer, but creates jobs and generates export income. If anyone objects, let them know.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U119	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U120	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Personally, I am very concerned about this plan, because today it is not clear that anyone will buy electricity from Estonia as part of the statistics trade. After all, it is not bad in itself to think about how our forests and forest floors can be fixed, we could burn the brush, etc. But this is definitely not the solution we should be moving towards. First of all, a tax change would be needed in order for the farmer to have any incentive to work up the forest, whether it be a tax exemption or something else, and, in fact, this unworthy timber should be disposed of in these same areas. This would require cogeneration plants, as Eesti Energia has built in Valka, Latvia. The efficiency of these plants is 80 to 90%. Just drive the wood into the oven with a 35 to 40% efficiency, I don't think it's smart. Rather, this step seeks to save the failed construction of the Auvere station, which cost a total of EUR 634 million, I think that was the amount. When we are always told that this means Estonia's energy security, I ask how one station can mean the state's energy security. It's very easy for the enemy to eliminate this one station, but what about the rest of Estonia? I think that someday these investments have taken very foolish steps. These investments should have been distributed across Estonia on the basis of these same cogeneration plants, even with a total capacity of 200 megawatt-hours. Now we're out of investment money and there's no good solution. We are faced with the question of how to clean up the forests and how to clean up the forest floors, because there is actually enough material there, but we could also reflect on how to handle this material wisely. The minister said there's gonna be more jobs. I'm saying the opposite. Estonia will lose jobs, and jobs will disappear from the mines first and foremost. If the wood is to be burned, the oil shale is not needed in its original volume. Pellet producers are in trouble, as has already been said here, and pellet production is already being taken to Latvia. The producers of particle board are concerned, as are the producers of wood briquettes. However, this means all jobs. On the one hand, we are trying to solve a problem, but on the other, we are actually reducing jobs. Does the Estonian peasant's mind just allow primitive wood to be turned into a furnace? The result is unknown today, and it is also unknown whether anyone is going to buy electricity from us as part of this so-called renewable energy trade in statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U121	Honourable manager! Honourable Riigikogu! Estonia is known to be one of Europe's most forest-rich countries, and we are extremely rich in terms of forest size per person. In this sense, the use of wood as a renewable resource in energy production is also welcome and in its place. The question, however, is first of all how we burn this wood and how we use it. As far as I know, good colleagues, our country's last resort to smoke-stars went to the breeze almost 40 years ago, and I don't think there are any more. The chimney that once appeared on our homes was an innovative phenomenon in burning wood. The efficiency of the Auvere plant is not more than 40%, and in cogeneration plants it is more than twice as high. So how do we use this wood anyway? I can't agree with you, Minister. You said that wood left to rot or rot in the forest, right, is a very bad thing and it is very foolish to leave it there. No, it's not. This decaying wood also has its own econiche for the benefit of our people, nature and the environment, if of course it is in reasonable quantities. 50 years ago there was such a picture in Estonia that one ruble and 50 kopiks were paid to a felling worker in the forest. But when Aunt Maali went to the woods to buy a stick tree, she had to pay 75 kopiks, i.e. half as much for that cubic metre. It was precisely so that this wood would not remain lying around. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, I did not get an answer from you to the question of how then the burning of wood in Narva Power Plants, including Auvere, will, in view of this very low efficiency, come together with European Directive 2009/28/EC, which says that Member States should encourage at least 70% of the energy conversion efficiency in industrial use. We're not talking about electricity or heat, we're talking about energy. We don't have it. So we still have to look at how we use this very positive goal of producing energy. Of course, we must also look at what came out of the question of what extent we are doing so, so that we remain within the limits of the natural growth of forests. 10 million cubic metres were mentioned here, but the Ministry of the Environment has the work of researchers in Tartu, which says that the ceiling for logging is 7.4 million cubic metres per year. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U122	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U123	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to start with this number that's run through it several times in 634 million. EUR 634 million has been costing this power plant. It is said to provide us with security, allegedly creating jobs for us. I'm going to ask a rhetorical question because I don't have any calculations for the sleeve. How many cogeneration plants could we have built across Estonia with this money? I imagine that, more or less in all county centres and major centres, we could have built a cogeneration plant with this money, and that would be a much more security-harder word than what is now. That would also be a stronger word for jobs than what is now. This would probably also be favourable from the point of view of energy prices. For what is one of the key issues of economic competitiveness? As cheap as possible. Again, I don't have a ministry behind me, so I'm not able to throw calculations like I'm busy, but a peasant's mind, which we don't have anymore, because we have peasants as well as we don't have, says it probably would've been smarter that way. But that is not the case, because essentially the same coalition that has now decided to turn the forest into an oven is also responsible for making such a huge and pointless investment in its time. Now I come to another subject, and it's wood. I own several large houses and use wood for heating, fire in fireplaces, etc. I know you can burn anything, you don't have to be a thick broken log package, maybe a stick tree, which my generation's partner, Mr. Ratas, just mentioned. My father was forced to do forest work in the 1920s, by the way, because of unemployment. He once described how all the twigs were then removed, including the stick trees that came, as he said, from one side to the other, so that they would not be nibbled. I think those words are disappearing from the Estonian language. All of this was collected because it had both energy and economic value. Now, not only are we putting waste wood into a boiler, but we are also putting solid wood in it. But why am I even saying this? I've been talking to several scientists about this. They hold their heads with two hands and say that it is a resource of wood chemistry, among other things. They sometimes remind me generously that I don't exactly join the Soviet era when the chemical industry was quite prosperous in Estonia, wood and wood chemistry were used to make all kinds of glues and I don't know what else (I am not a chemist or scientist, I am a silly historian). The question arises here: we may say that we have a forest to the sky and back, but that does not mean that we can go out of our way with this resource. We should still think that the problem of the Estonian economy as a whole is a small added value. How we can get as much added value as possible from this resource, which we have much, is a question. I think that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications could and should be more active in this particular aspect. I do not want to point the finger at you because, indeed, Mr Michal did not have a minister at the time. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U124	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U125	He is not personally responsible for his own decisions, and he is, to some extent, a hostage to these decisions. But that doesn't mean that once a ski trail has been laid down, you have to drive past it, no matter how deep the finish is in the abyss. I think we should still try to do everything we can to change this path, so that the finish is not in the gorge and simply does not go into the chimney with our resource, which we actually use to some extent at the expense of future generations, because a properly mature forest is a question of 80 to 100 years. From my experience, it's very good and easy to have some table parts and a stove. Table brains can be used for the construction of the outdoor chamber in a repeated way, but only Mongolian-type toilets can be made of such woods, with two sticks, so that you hold on to one and with the other you scare the wolves away, as the old joke sounded, maybe a failed joke. Our view is that this is an uneconomic, unreasonable situation caused by wrong decisions made in the past, which must be changed, but not justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U126	Thank you. There's no more calls. Does the Minister have a wish to speak? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U127	Do I have a time limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U128	5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U129	Thank God! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm gonna fix some things. There's a saying that my ignorance is as good as yours. Actually, that's not the case in real life, maybe you don't have to joke about it either, because I feel like we haven't done some work. When this bill gets here, we will certainly share more information on this issue so that you can understand what we are talking about. Mr. Ammas said he didn't know exactly, but he's read that there are different estimates. There are certainly different assessments, because the subject is large and large. But we share this information. Maybe the first thing we should do is specify what the cogeneration plants are talking about. In Estonia, cogeneration plants have been created for district heating networks, if that makes any sense. That's one. Secondly, we are dealing with statistics trade from 2020. You will probably be able to put together 1 + 1 yourself and see that no one will create a new cogeneration plant in such a time. That makes perfect sense. If the existing plant receives support for renewable energy, it will not be able to participate in this process, otherwise it would be overcompensated and would run counter to the rules. That's the rule you should understand about all this activity. Renewable energy support is currently not just a Narva power plant and a Sillamäe power plant, so we can only talk about them within this time zone. I'm sure it needed fixing. With regard to Mr Tamm's remark, it is not going to be timber before it is going to be wood waste, not valuable wood, carrying, collecting or putting it in place, if this transaction is possible and there is an analysis of the timber market. That safeguard clause is in there. Once again, if we come here with this bill, we'll be able to get a closer look at it. It would be very easy for me, too, to make propaganda and to say that it really is the difference here that some pellet producers are interested in the low price of timber, because for them, every euro is actually boosted to perhaps a million, and on the other hand, export revenues and potential jobs in a rather problematic region are at issue, almost the only region with high unemployment. That would perhaps be a very superficial claim. We will specify all of this, and the bill will explain it. Anyone who is interested is certainly welcome to join in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U130	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finished answering the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U131	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Without being a specialist on the issue we are discussing, however, in recent months I have been following with interest from the media the claims of experts in favour of and against wood heating. They've been diverse. Yes, of course, the government has found supporters of its plan, such as forest owners who win the rise in the price of timber, or Eesti Energia, which maintains a more polite position and does not have to write down hundreds of millions of euros because of the Auvere station. But it seems that Mr Tammel is right and those who say that behind the government's position is really nothing more than a desire to help Estonia out of trouble. In fact, both Eesti Energia and other state companies now received a signal that no matter what the trouble is, no matter what bad investments are made, the state will come to the rescue. But even the Estonian Forest and Wood Industries Association, which supports the government's plan, has pointed out that we should not go too far; this issue must be gradually developed and prices monitored, otherwise the timber industry will quickly get its throat slammed. In my opinion, however, the government should also listen to the experts of the pessimists on this matter. Of course, district heating companies and wood pellet producers are suffering. It is difficult to argue with their argument that only 35 to 40% of wood is burned at Narva station, but that new cogeneration plants would use two or two and a half times less wood to produce the same amount of energy. The faction of the Free Party also met one visit to the company Graanul Invest with one of the stations to be built and what to deny there was impressed. There was a question today in this Chamber about why Auvere was still being built. There hasn't been any other answer today or before as energy security considerations. But are not small plants also bearing strategic value in terms of defence, as pointed out by Mr Tamm? Or is burning wood in Auvere really just an intermediate phase in designing a network of more efficient, small, dispersed, combined heat and power plants, as has optimisticly been written in Postimees by university scientist Marko Kohv? Forest scientist Raul Rosenvald has raised the question of whether only poor quality wood and wood waste are going to burn, because the need for wood at Auvere Station is huge. From his article, I realized that it is not quite clear to us how much timber of poor quality there is. However, it is clear that, in relation to the rapidly developing pellet industry, this resource is largely already being used. Pellet producers are even forecasting a shortage of wood and the resulting increase in timber prices for the coming years. The discussion about the reasonableness of the mass burning of wood, which started in the media at the beginning of the year, has, in my opinion, pointed perhaps even to an unexpected, at least in my opinion, unexpected bottleneck that we do not have the full clarity of what is the sustainable volume of felling in Estonia. Today, an interviewer's representative used a different bill than the one who answered the inquiry. According to Marku Lamb, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment, the potential volume is 12 to 15 million cubic metres; according to researcher Raul Rosenvaldi, no more than 10 million cubic metres can be realized. However, it seems that these plans to burn wood are rather based on short-term political and economic interests and not all aspects are likely to be taken into account. So, in my opinion, the concerns that have been raised in the question are fully justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U132	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U133	Thank you. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U134	Thank you. Mr Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U135	Let's keep going. Today's fifth item on the agenda is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Mart Helme, Raivo Põldaru, Henn Põljaasa, Jaak Madison, Uno Kaskpeit and Arno Silla about the provision of school health services in general education schools. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for Health and Labour. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U136	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, as of January 2016, 25 schools, or 2119 students, had been exposed to the school health service. The aim of the school health service is to monitor the health status of students, to shape a healthy lifestyle, to prevent the disease of students and the development of chronic diseases, to ensure that the educational load is medically justified and that the environment is healthy, and to provide first aid if necessary. In this context, we have the following questions for the Minister on the basis of § 139 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. Firstly, what is being done to ensure that these 25 schools and their students are covered by health care services? Who could handle the provision of school health care? Where can I find money to provide this service? Fourthly, and finally, how can I ensure a disease prevention service for students who study in schools where school health care is not provided? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U137	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs, thank you for your questions. I'd be happy to answer them. First of all, a little explanation. Indeed, the school health service is a separate service described by law and financed separately from the budget of the sickness fund. At the same time, it should be noted that all children who receive school health care at the same time are on the list of family doctors. The school health service is essentially a nursing service. All children also receive health care at their family doctor's, which concerns medical examinations, vaccinations and everything else. But now specific answers to your questions. The first question: "What is it going to do to get 2119 students from 25 schools covered by health care? " For all schools, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund has been trying to find a school health service provider since the beginning of the contract period, 1 September 2015. The directors of the regional departments of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund have been in contact with family doctors, former and new potential service providers and representatives of local governments, i.e. school managers, on this topic. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund informed us of the situation on 9 February 2016 by forwarding lists of schools with school health services contracts. Previously, the Health Insurance Fund, through the Ministry of Education and Research, had received lists of pupils from schools not covered by school health services. The Health Insurance Fund linked the names of children studying in schools without school health care to the lists of family doctors to which the children belong, based on information received from the Ministry. In order to inform children's family doctors about the temporary interruption of preventive activities at school, regional health fund managers began to send information notes to family doctors, together with the names of children on the list of doctors who are studying in schools where there is currently no school health care provider. We specified the current situation with the schoolteachers as well as with the health insurance fund. As of 1 April 2016, some schools had already been found to have a school health service provider, some of them being contracted. If the school has not yet found the service provider, according to school holders, the children's health is monitored by their family doctors and the school continues to look for the service provider. Question 2: "Who can deal with the provision of school health care? 'The School Health Service is the provision of independent nursing care in accordance with § 25 of the Health Services Management Act, which requires authorisation, with the requirement for authorisation being valid regardless of the place where the service is provided, for example, the service may be provided on the premises of the School or in the premises of the general medical practice. The provision of school health services shall be governed by the annexes to the contract for financing general medical care or to the contract for the financing of medical treatment, which shall lay down special conditions relating to school health care. According to § 43 (2) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, the school manager organises the availability of school health care services. The conclusion of school health care contracts with the Health Insurance Fund is subject to a proposal by the school manager concerning the provider, the consent of the school health care provider, a valid licence and other legal conditions for the provision of health care, such as the right to process sensitive personal data. The role of primary health care, including nursing care, is important in view of the development of a health system where there is an increasing expectation that the quality of services will improve and be more accessible. School health care is considered to be one of the primary health care services, so we can see that health centres with a wide range of services have an important role to play in the sustainable provision of the service, with a larger team alongside the family doctor. Question 3: "Where can I find the money to provide this service? " You don't need to find money, money has already been found. The health insurance fund pays for the school health care service. In the health insurance budget, the funds are required according to the number of students planned, based on the official statistics of September of the respective academic year of the Estonian education information system. The Health Insurance Fund assumes the obligation to pay for school health care services during 11 calendar months of the year, i.e. from 1 September to 31 July. The limit for school health care per student per calendar month is 2.64 euros for regular school pupils and 12.37 euros for special needs students. When paying for the service, a coefficient of 0,97 shall be applied if as part of the service the guidance or work advice service of a school nurse is not guaranteed. In 2015, EUR 4337569 was paid for the school health service. For 2016, EUR 4604000 has been earmarked for financing school health care services. According to § 43 (2) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, the school keeper organises the availability of school health care services and cooperates with the school health service provider in order to ensure continuity, ensures the availability of premises and non-medical facilities in the school in accordance with the requirements laid down in § 25 (2) of the Health Services Management Act, and covers the costs thereof, and organises and finances the place where the student transport is provided if there is an unavoidable need to do so and the parent of the student does not have the opportunity to arrange transport in this situation. The last question: "How can I provide disease prevention services for students who are studying in schools where school health care is not currently provided? ' In the event that the previous service provider has given up school health care activities or that the school manager has not found a service provider for the pupils, the schoolkeepers have agreed with the family doctors that the children's health will then be monitored by the children's family doctors. Treatment of student diseases is the competence of a family doctor. General medical care for a student is based on being included in the family doctor's list. Pursuant to Decree No 2 of the Minister of Social Affairs of 6 January 2010, the "Working Guide for Family Doctors and Health Workers working with them', the family doctor and the family nurse will carry out preventive health checks according to the schedule set out in the Annex to the regulation. The family doctor and the family nurse also carry out vaccinations and preventive examinations. In summing up, it can be said that there has indeed been a situation where, according to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the school manager, or usually the local government, must provide school health care services, the funding of which is taken over by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. Unfortunately, in some cases, schools have not reached an agreement with the service providers, mostly with family nurses working with family doctors, and in some cities with independent nursing staff, on the provision of this service. I have already talked about this, but maybe in a little simpler language, we have put together in these cases the names of children who are studying in schools where school health services have not yet been able to provide basic school and upper secondary school law, with lists of family doctors for these children. We have informed family doctors that these children are not currently provided with school health care. Since continuous medical surveillance, vaccinations etc. must be guaranteed, they must be carried out by general practitioners in such cases. In agreement with the family doctors of these children, the problem has been resolved in the sense that children's health is under control. However, as I said, in recent months the volume of school health services has been further increased in several schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U139	Thank you. You have questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U140	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned several times that the service was paid for by the Health Insurance Fund. It seems to me that this should be explained more, because, yes, this medical service may be compensated by the Health Insurance Fund, but in fact, the school has to hire medical staff, which is the main problem. Whether the local government or anyone who owns this school may also be a private school, there is no money to hire a person, or there is no money to hire a person full-time, which is why the person is on the ground there for a very short period of time, i.e. essentially this service is not available. Hence our question of who will pay or where will the money come from. Are we getting this right? We all understand that the medical service is paid by the health insurance fund, but that person's salary doesn't come from the health insurance fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U141	Unfortunately, you haven't got it right. The Health Insurance Fund pays a bounty of 2.64 euros for school health care for ordinary school pupils and 12.37 euros for students with special needs. This bounty is divided into certain cost components. These include the cost of human resources, which is the majority of this money, the cost of medical supplies, as well as the cost of management. The point of the question is, I suppose, a little bit different. It is basically that, of course, the bounty gives a sister a month's pay in case there are a certain number of students at school. If, for example, there are 50 students in school, it is clear that the sister does not meet the full load at that school. In such a case, the full burden will not come out of the bounty that the sickness fund allocates. These are the majority of cases where, to date, no agreement has been reached with the service provider, as medical workers are not interested in the small burden that the school manager, or the school, is able to provide for the funding of the health insurance fund. In these cases, as I said, one option is that children receive exactly the same service from their family doctor. Another option is that it works in many municipalities that the nurse who provides school health care is a school nurse in several schools at the same time and thus gets her load. A very similar system exists, for example, for support specialists who work in smaller schools, such as social psychologists and social pedagogues, who work in several schools at the same time, one day accept one school and the other day accept another school. So I assume that the point of the question is rather that. As I said, in the future, we will see greater support for local smaller schools, precisely from health centre teams, which should become bigger and stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U142	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U143	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr Minister, first of all, thank you for your very good explaining answers. The question is this. We're in the middle of a state gymnasium. When planning state secondary schools, do they take into account that there are medical offices and medical staff in schools, as well as funding for them, or is this a later phase that is already up to the school board to decide and resolve?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U144	Thank you. I owe an exact answer to how state secondary schools have organised the provision of school health services. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act states that school health care should be provided. However, as I said, school health services can be provided locally at school and can in principle be provided in other ways. How has it been organised by state secondary schools? I honestly admit that I do not have this piece of information from the previous office, the current state of affairs should be asked by the Minister of Education and Science in office. I'm afraid I can't give you an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U145	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In order to provide school health care, a number of conditions need to be met: authorisation, qualified personnel, who are also trained, qualified spaces, etc. My question is just about the licenses. In particular, in order to provide a service, each service provider needs to be authorised. For example, if a family doctor practice provides school health care services in four schools, he must also have four licences. According to my information, one licence costs 86.28 euros. This means that if there are small schools, such as schools with 10 or 20 students in Saaremaa, it is no longer economically meaningful to obtain four licences. This is also one reason why these services are no longer provided. Do you think that's reasonable? How about a single licence for one of the service providers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U147	Thank you. I don't think there's a lot of schools in Saaremaa with 10 to 20 children. There are 14 students in Ruhnu Elementary School, as the mayor recently assured me, but others are likely to have more children. Should each establishment be authorised? I will be honest with you that I do not know exactly why there should be a separate licence for each place of business. Your idea of having one permit seems reasonable, but I'll find out what circumstances make the system different.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U148	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U149	Thank you, good manager. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Authorisations are such that a separate licence is required for each place of service. That is the requirement. But the health services are quite precisely written out by the Minister's regulations, for example, home care has been written out in very detail, but there are only a few words in the school health regulations that it is provided at school and that is all, it is like being left in the orphan's section. It's probably one of the reasons that no one knows exactly what to do there. You said there was a family doctor, a family nurse, etc. Do you see any perspective in school health care as such, or do you think that in the future the family doctor will take over this service?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U150	Thank you. First of all, I will say the answer about state secondary schools. I have overlooked one regulation, which was also quoted by Mr Vassiliev, which says that school health services must be provided at school premises if more than 200 students are studying there. So if there are less than 200 students in school, this service can also be provided outside the school if the place where the school health service is provided is located at a reasonable distance on foot. In this I am sure that the state, as a school manager, has guaranteed school health care in state secondary schools in any case. As far as the content of the school health service is concerned, most of the functions performed by the school health care professional are essentially at the level of the independent reception of the family nurse. This is also one of the reasons why in many places family nurses provide school health care. At some point, children's health checks will be carried out in accordance with the second guide. Whether they're made at school or at a family doctor's, there's no difference in substance. Similarly, children are vaccinated under a certain vaccination scheme that can be carried out by trained healthcare professionals. Whether they do it at school or at a family doctor's centre, it doesn't really make a big difference. They put together a student health card, but whether they put it together at school or by family nurses at a family doctor doesn't make much difference. In my opinion, it is important that children are in school and in other parts of the world, after all, they are monitored and controlled at school, and that their possible health and development problems are brought to the attention in due time. Basically, in the Estonian health care system, family doctors should monitor it continuously, but I understand the logic of why historically we have developed this system in a certain way. It is not easy to get schoolchildren out of school because they are, according to the law, there until the end of the ninth grade or basic education, in principle, there every day and it is good to do all the activities with them. It has been an ambition that a school health professional should provide healthcare in a wider spectrum, for example, should treat traumas. I generally think that, in these situations, we have moved in a more sensible direction, and it is not practical to maintain this capacity in every school. However, if the students are suffering from more serious medical problems, you must contact your family doctor, get specialist care in the hospital or the ER, but if there is an emergency case, you should call an ambulance clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U151	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Any requests? Yes, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U152	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, School health care. The problem is not so much in the 25 schools where there is no school nurse, but the problem is that this service has not been given enough attention at all. First of all, the Minister's regulation, which should regulate school health care, contains almost nothing but the fact that this service is provided at school and that is it. The Health Insurance Fund has the money to hire school nurses, which means paying them, but nobody dares to go to that job because nobody knows what they really have to do. Yeah, the money that's paid is small, but you'd still be interested. However, if this service is deemed necessary, it does exist in law, then it should first be regulated more precisely. They should be service criteria, standards, descriptions, etc. Yes, there is a guide drawn up by the Ministry of Social Affairs, but it is also very, very general. Now there is a situation where some schools have a sister who has worked for a dentist in the past, and somewhere a sister who may have worked for an operation nurse in the past. They're all very different in preparation. Somewhere in school, a doctor with higher education is working, but she's not a nurse. He needs to be able to do nursing, but he doesn't know them because he's never done them. The level is extremely uneven. First of all, all those fine sisters who dare to provide this service, which is so loosely regulated, should be trained. The Sisters' Association, by the way, has been asked. They think it's an important and necessary service. It is the association of nurses who should organise the training programme and provide training in cooperation with healthcare providers or higher education institutions. But the association of sisters has not got anywhere with this training, because they once again claim that there are no demands or criteria. The requirements for health care shall be laid down in a ministerial regulation. So this is not such a complicated thing that should be discussed here in the Riigikogu with the participation of the coalition and opposition, it is just a matter of ministerial regulation. I mean, there are specialists in the ministry. So if the Ministry and the Minister think that the service that exists in the law must exist and it must be provided, then a little effort should be made and the regulation clarified. The most important thing, of course, is that courses must be organised, and the association of sisters must be called upon to say how long they will wait. The ministry might remind them to deal with it, because it's in the course that this thing is closed. Doctors and nurses in all other specialties are constantly training themselves, all must attend courses and receive credits in order to receive funding from the Health Insurance Fund, because the funding goes on the basis of competitions that also take credit into account. Only school health care is the area where the Health Insurance Fund will be happy even if anyone in a schoolhouse is bothering to sit on the ground, even though he has not attended any courses or anything for 15 years and only on the basis of his old memory, he does or moves. It is still not a modern-day health care service. So this thing needs to be fixed. Yeah, it's a cheap service, and as always, the cheap stuff's got it dragged. You can't do this any longer. If it is said that there is no interest in providing this service, I can assure you that there is an interest. But really, many healthcare providers are just afraid to go to work where there are no rules or frameworks and where no one requires further training or paper. There are still children there, and a proper health care professional is just afraid to go to this job. So it has to be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U153	Thank you. There's no more calls. We're done answering the fifth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U154	Let's keep going. The sixth question is the question submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Külliki Kübarsep, Ain Lutsep, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel and Krista Aru about the HIV epidemic in Estonia. This has been submitted to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U155	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. The HIV issue has become a permanent and profound problem in Estonia, which we are all aware of, but at the same time, no such steps have been taken to decisively limit the epidemic so that we can say that the epidemic has been halted. A total of just under 10,000 HIV and AIDS cases have been registered in Estonia since 1988. According to the Ministry's authorities, however, this figure is certainly higher. It is estimated that there are approximately 13,000 HIV positives, 60% of whom are aware of their infection. The number of new HIV cases in Estonia is one of the largest among the European Union countries: 23.5 cases per 100000 inhabitants. For example, 325 new cases were discovered in Estonia in 2013, compared to 157 in Finland. Given the size of the population of the countries in Estonia, the incidence of HIV is 8.5 times higher than in Finland, and this can be called an epidemic. Yes, luckily, in 2015, the number of first cases decreased to 270. In addition, we are concerned that every HIV infected person needs lifelong treatment, which costs the Estonian state nearly 5000 euros per infected person per year. We have 270 new cases a year, we multiply it by 5,000, and we get an annual cost of 1.35 million euros. In addition, attention must be paid to the fact that the average HIV infected person in Estonia is a 30+ heterosexual person. It is also a concern that nearly a third of the HI virus carriers do not know that they are carrying the virus. These are facts that show the negative side of our public health. It makes you wonder if we have done everything we can to improve the situation. Unfortunately, we must say that we do not have a comprehensive vision and plan to stop the further spread of the infection. We're still willing to pay for the cure. This year, the financial needs would already amount to EUR 45 million if all diagnosed HIV carriers were to treat themselves. Fortunately, or unfortunately, not everyone is treating themselves. Many people don't even know they're infected because they don't do HIV tests on routine medical examinations. Others, however, stop the treatment. Why? It is an informed choice to continue to receive disability pension. Our inquiry was prompted by the World Health Organisation WHO report 'HIV/AIDS treatment and care in Estonia' in 2014, the main conclusion of which was that the country lacks important indicators for monitoring HIV epidemics, the available data are not sufficiently analysed and the priorities of the national HIV strategy are not taken into account in political decision-making. Today we know that the national strategy has actually ended and that there has not been a new one. On this basis, we have asked the Minister seven questions, which we kindly ask to answer in order to obtain further information on what we have already heard in September 2015, when the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu held an open session on the same subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U156	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U157	Thank you very much for bringing this extremely important subject to this hall! I agree with almost one hundred percent of everything the previous speaker said. The problem is serious and long-term. We must admit that we have not done enough to find a solution to this problem. This is shameful for the thousands of people who are now carriers of the HIV virus, it is certainly irresponsible for the hundreds of people who get infected each year, and it is also clearly a disgrace to Estonia internationally, because in terms of HIV prevalence, we are not, according to memory, about which two African countries we are clearly among the world's countries, Europe's leaders in the worst sense. It is therefore an extremely priority for me, as a minister, and I can assure you that in the coming years, the Ministry of Social Affairs will pay more attention to this. How? That is clear from my answers to your questions. The first question: 'Indicate how much money has been spent on prevention and treatment of HIV from the state's own resources and how much of the European Union funds have been spent in the years 2007 to 2015 (by year). Do you think the funding in this area is sufficient? If not, how and if so, are there plans to increase funding? ' State expenditure on HIV prevention and treatment has increased over the years. I can also transmit the relevant table electronically to the heirs by year. But in essence, we can see that a total of 10.3 million euros was spent in 2007, of which 3 million euros were ARV medicines. Almost 14 million euros were spent in 2015, of which 10 million were spent on medicines. ESF funding in 2015 was a pretty marginal amount of EUR 40000, at peak, for example EUR 308000 for ESF funding in 2011, EUR 5.5 million for ARV medicines and EUR 12.5 million in total. However, a number of aspects need to be noted here. For example, since 2013, part of the HIV treatment expenditure has moved to the Health Insurance Fund's budget and is no longer reflected in the overall prevention strategy budget. But we can say that as of last year, expenditure on HIV medicines had increased considerably, let's say three or four times, compared to 2007, and most of the expenditure on HIV treatment has been on medicines. Between 2011 and 2015, the Social Fund funded counselling services for people who are infected with HIV or who are HIV positive, as well as information campaigns such as 'Gum is sex' and 'Security talk! '. Due to the end of the support period, all activities financed so far by the ESF have been taken over to the state budget since 2016, so that the budget for prevention activities at the Institute for Health Development has increased by more than EUR 1 million this year, i.e. the so-called 'exit strategy' from the euro instruments, we have done beautifully well in the context of prevention activities. However, funding in this area is certainly not sufficient, the geographical availability of services needs to be improved, their quality improved and their volume increased. In the coming years, additional funding will require, for example, the following services: Outpatient opioid substitution treatment or so-called methadone replacement therapy, integrated opioid substitution therapy and antiretroviral treatment (currently only available at West Tallinn Central Hospital, this year the National Institute for Health Development will start providing this service at Ida-Viru Central Hospital, but it is absolutely necessary to extend the provision of this service geographically, including by providing it in Narva and Tartu), harm reduction services, syringe exchange and counselling services (this geographical availability and the package of services should be extended) and case management services for HIV-positive persons. These services include HIV testing, which should be extended in this context. This has so far been done more on a project-based basis and has also produced good results in some areas, for example, 90% of Narva's injecting drug users have tested HIV, but coverage is lower in many other target groups. We have tried experimenting here in cooperation with the first level. The first test, one must admit, did not work too well, but this year we will try again and with a slightly updated guide, because we must finally integrate HIV prevention and the monitoring and referral of HIV patients into the first-level service. It's not something other people do on a project basis somewhere, it's part of normal health. Of course, the provision of ARV medicines to HIV-positive persons also needs additional money, because for the EUR 10 to 12 million we are currently spending on ARV medicines from the state budget, we are actually only able to guarantee nearly a third of the treatment of HIV-positive people. The rest, however, are not always just budgetary constraints, but also broader social issues, how to find these people, how to get them to treatment and how to ensure continuity in their treatment, because continuity is a key issue for ARV treatment. In fact, if treatment is interrupted, all available ARV medicines will run out of resistance at one point, or all of them will be resistant, and then there will be little more to do. This is where there is a screaming need for health and social integration. HIV-positives are often, although the number of such people is not increasing, but currently HIV-positive are generally opioid injecting addicts, which is a social problem. Keeping these people in constant care is a beautiful challenge. The second question: 'Specialists (e.g. the Estonian Infective Disease Society) have indicated that HIV epidemics can be managed with 90:90:90 strategies, i.e. a result must be achieved where 90% of HIV-positive people know their status, 90% of them are in antiretroviral therapy, and 90% of them are suppressed. Furthermore, it has been pointed out that a clear chain of command, a responsible institution and a leader are needed to deal with the situation. Question: How and whether Estonia has used and financed the approved programme in the world? How many are currently infected with antiretroviral therapy? ' 90: 90 90 The UN AIDS, or UN Anti-AIDS Programme, is the target for 2020, which was decided in 2014. Due to the preparation of a new implementation plan for the population health development plan, we are reviewing the national targets and indicators in the field of HIV in Estonia. New targets will also be set in line with UNAIDS and other international organisations such as the World Health Organisation. At the end of 2015, 3494 HIV-positive patients were present in ARV treatment, accounting for approximately 38% of all HIV-positive patients diagnosed. So there's plenty and more to go towards that goal. The third question: 'Estonia's national HIV and AIDS strategy for 2006-2015 has ended and there is no new national action plan, but it is said that it is under preparation. The objective of the completed development plan was to achieve a sustained downward trend in the spread of HIV infection, which unfortunately remained unfulfilled. Question: How do you assess the results of the 2015 development plan, which has been the main obstacles/causes that the situation has deteriorated rather than improved? Why does the government refuse to admit that there is an HIV epidemic in Estonia? ' I can't speak on behalf of the government, but I can't argue with the argument that there is an HIV epidemic in Estonia. Of course it is. The situation is, as has been said, worrying. A little bit of statistics here, which shows that things have not gotten any worse, but the improvement has been very persistent. In 2000 there were new cases of HIV in Estonia 390, it was the year before the epidemic, one could say, or the year of the epidemic. In 2001, there were 1474 new cases. It was an alarm year. Some improvements were made in the following years: 899 new cases in 2002, 840 in 2003 and 743. Now we can say that all this activity was certainly not enough, but the work done under the roof of many good people, including good enthusiasts, also the non-state sector, or NGOs, did bear fruit. In 2015, the number of new infections was 270, so much less, almost five times less than in 2001. If we look at more statistics, there is a huge increase in awareness in schools compared to 2001. In 2011, there was a pretty high percentage of the number of young, schoolchildren who were infected, I am not going to tell you by heart. In recent years, this figure has been essentially zero. So awareness has clearly grown and the average age of HIV infection with it. Similarly, the age of the initial injection of injecting drug users has increased, so awareness has improved here too. These things are definitely connected. At the same time, there are also certain concerns. One of the biggest concerns as to why this issue is of growing public health importance is as follows: This is also a good example that if adequate measures are not taken in time, the consequences will be worse later. While, in 2001-2005, virtually all infections occurred in the lines of injecting drug users, i.e. basically opioid addicts and HIV-positive groups almost overlapd, today's indication says that in 2015, the most new HIV infections were detected among the 30- to 39-year-olds. There is no confirmed number, but the indication says that at least 30% of all new infected people were infected heterosexually. So the epidemic is breaking out of the ring of injectable drug addicts, and it is a real threat to public health. The following question: 'Do you think that the HIV problem committee proposed by the Riigikogu in the letter of ambassadors will help the Ministry you manage to fight the HIV epidemic? At what level should such a Commission act? ' The Ministry of Social Affairs supports the establishment of a problem committee and the letter of support on this matter was also sent to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on 9 February 2016. A broad political focus on these issues would certainly stimulate public debate on HIV and contribute to finding solutions. The Parliament's Trouble Committee would help bring together the Ministry, specialists, interest groups and other important parties, whose cooperation will enable the state to combat HIV epidemics and drug addiction more effectively than before. I think it is important that there is greater political support and political attention, because what is denied there is still not considered to be popular enough about injecting drug users and HIV-positive issues to deal with them more seriously. Now I'm out of time, and I don't know what the chair is telling me to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U158	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U159	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! This is an area where millions of euros are moving one way or the other. Last summer, the court convicted a woman who personally cashed in 58000 euros under AIDS prevention. What are your conclusions, how and to whom are you now distributing these funds? If you go around a little bit, it turns out that there are doubts about one or another person at the "hearing" level, whose main task is to help those in need, but the money does not reach those in need. What are your measures and how attentive are you after this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U160	Thank you. One part of this same HIV treatment guide and the action plan referred to at the point of improvement of monitoring and evaluation is the establishment of a service quality standard, i.e. harmonisation of quality of service. As has been said, a very large number of tasks in this area have been delegated to non-state or non-governmental sectors. Several NGOs are working in this area. As has been said, thanks to them and largely to their enthusiasm, we were able to prevent even worse in the early 2000s. Now, 15 years later, we have undoubtedly come so far that we know very clearly which things are working well and which things are even better, also national expectations have changed. It is true that the level of service providers has been uneven and the Institute for Health Development has been struggling with the quality of services provided by a number of service providers, so it is planned to revise and harmonise the content of services more rigorously this year. As far as medicinal products are concerned, there is, of course, a risk of misuse of medicinal products that the state pays for, not only ARV medicines, but also all other medicinal products that the health insurance fund compensates for, because one of the risks is that the doctor basically uses these medicines for his financial benefit. With this risk, we have dealt with the whole health system in the view, and this has been one of the reasons why we have been following very strictly who has the right to issue medicines. ARV medicines should also only be prescribed by a very small group of healthcare providers. We have rather avoided this possibility for all service providers, precisely to prevent misuse. It certainly has its own price in terms of access to medicines, so the balance between potential misuse and service availability must be sought. One of the things we are doing now specifically for ARV medicines is that we are trying to integrate the ARV system into the general logic of obtaining and distributing medicines in the country. If we generally get medicines into the documents of either the Health Insurance Fund or the Ministry, through the Committee on Medicinal Products working at the Ministry of Social Affairs, and receive a certain benefit, then ARV medicines have a separate body from which they are obtained. This system would, in my view, require harmonisation, including harmonisation, on the question of how supervision is carried out to prevent misuse. Finally, of course, when expensive assets are distributed, there is still a risk that someone might think that they could steal it. In order to avoid this, the Ministry can set up preventative obstacle mechanisms, but in the end we have law enforcement bodies and a court that will have to deal with these cases if, despite everything, such things have happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U161	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U162	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is clear that the spread of HIV requires cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of the Interior as well as general cooperation between municipalities and the state. How do you assess the creation of a single research, treatment and prevention centre on this issue and why not the idea of creating a research centre, given that HIV requires a complex medical approach? Was my question understandable?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U163	Thank you. The first thing in the country's view, as I said, is that we have, from the head, 15 to 20 concrete actions, where we do not need any analysis, research or any other centre, because we know what should be done. So far, the question has been, in certain cases, the ability to find the people who would provide this service, and on the other hand, the question is that it needs to be financed further. I think we are moving closer to solutions, and next year we will be able to test or start most of the new services. As has been said, this will increase the quality of these services to a whole new level. It is now a bit off the ground, but it is an important and interesting topic, which has also been pointed out by several experts from the World Health Organisation, that Estonia, I would say, tragedy, or HIV epidemic, on the other hand, is certainly of great interest to international science, because our HIV population is very compact and rather homogeneous in nature. At least one Estonian scientist I know has discovered that in Ida-Virumaa, for example, the HIV virus has a completely unique modification that is not available in the rest of the world, and several WHO specialists have thought that Estonia should think that a scientific base could be created in Estonia and in the framework of international cooperation in research and business. If we could get a thorough analysis of our population, proper data in our databases, along with some other genetic knowledge and connection to other data in the health information system, it would be a very valuable asset, of which very many international scientists and also pharmaceutical companies would probably be interested, and perhaps to thank us for helping us in this difficult fight. So I have expressed my opinion to the Ministry of Education and Research that they could think about this issue in the context of an international cooperation project. If anyone in the Riigikogu has any other thoughts on this subject, I am happy to think along.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You argued here several times that the prevention programme ended in 2015 and that a new programme is still being carried out. I would like to make it clear how this inconsistency has arisen. Is it because of the sloppyness of the workers, that no one simply bothered to do it because of the lack of a frame? What made this happen? If we have such an important problem to solve, as we are talking about now, that eight times our prevention is worse than in Finland, how can we explain why this is so inconsistently dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U165	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. We're done answering the sixth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U166	Minister, if there are any questions for you, you can also answer the last two questions nicely in response to the questions. By chance, there are questions for you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, we thank you for your answers. The Riigikogu can certainly step up this activity, but to a large extent it is the work of the Ministry and very difficult work. I looked at the WHO report from 2014. It contains a great deal of data and sometimes more drastic statistics than our own is about both the total number of HIV positives and the related measures. I raise the issue of stopping treatment. You briefly pointed out that certain people are very difficult to keep in therapy. It has even been said that only one in four diagnoses remains in treatment. This means that it costs society a lot more. Have the reasons for this been analysed? What can we do to make this activity, the retrovirus, probably the name of this thing, more effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U168	Thank you. One concrete example concerns the same provision of integrated methadone replacement therapy and ARV treatment. The social problems of people who are infected by HIV on heterosexual routes and are not injectable drug users are assumed to be significantly less severe, i.e. certain behavioural situations, and the motivation, desire and ability of these people to stay in treatment are beautiful, and there are no problems with their treatment. However, if we look at opioid addicts, injecting drug addicts, their persistence in any national structure or system is problematic. These are people who often have very high levels of debt, which means that their participation in official employment is questionable or difficult. They have psychological problems and other health problems other than social problems. Ultimately, those people who have a very strong dependence, for which they need to get drugs every day, are drugs that they often don't have the money to get, and that's why this money is obtained by criminal means. This means that the exposure of these people to social and health systems is very sporadic. For example, if this person develops tuberculosis, he will be treated, but it will be difficult to keep him on treatment. Even after he's got the treatment, he tends to disappear. So this is where we have two things to deal with in parallel. This is the integrated service when a person receives both HIV treatment and drug addiction treatment at the same time. That, as I said, has been done outpatiently at West Tallinn Central Hospital, people have gone there and received ARV treatment at the same time, as well as methadone. Methadone is essentially subject to ARV treatment. So we keep a person in ARV by allowing him to receive methadone replacement treatment there. Or we can take a longer social rehabilitation, inpatient rehabilitation service provided by opioid addicts at Viljandi Hospital. There's 20 seats. These people are being treated there for several months, half through nine months, and a very large number of them receive parallel drug rehabilitation and ARV therapy because they are HIV-positive. Later, the same people who are "re-enhanced" after this treatment will be provided social advice for a longer period of time. This allows them to be kept in the system in the same way. But we're talking about 20 places here. There are 10,000 injecting drug users and HIV-positive people in Estonia, a little more. So how to integrate drug treatment and ARV treatment, how to integrate social services and health services, how to involve local authorities and family doctors is extremely difficult. If I could offer a solution today, I'd certainly do it. I don't have a solution, but we're working on finding it. Now I will answer two unanswered questions, because the law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu so provides or does not see it, but allows it. Question 5: "What activities are your managed ministry planning to limit the spread of HIV epidemics in Estonia and what are your numerical targets for the next four years? ' As you pointed out in your earlier question, since this is a priority issue, a more precise action plan for the coming years is currently being drawn up. Is it a development plan, a colour book or whatever, I am less interested in, but I have given this task, and the Ministry of Social Affairs will have an anti-HIV action plan for the coming years with numerical objectives and concrete measures. It's under development right now. Drug and HIV treatment, which must be looked at together, and appropriate prevention activities are certainly one of the main priorities of the Ministry. Additional requests made to the Ministry of Finance in the context of the state budget strategy, which were also negotiated last week at the Ministry of Finance, request some EUR 1.5 million per year of additional funds to extend this package of services. Of course, we are guided by the epidemiological situation, international recommendations and, what we are denying there, also by budgetary opportunities. But the positive thing is, of course, that in treating and preventing both drug addiction and HIV, there is a great deal that can be done with little money. For example, an increase in methadone substitution treatment costs some tens of thousands of euros a year. In fact, these amounts are not colossal. Longer-term treatment options are, of course, more expensive, but here, as I said, the aim is to integrate different services into the general funding logic of the health fund or the health sector, in which case some services must be transferred to the financing of the health fund, which is actually quite normal health services. When we are talking about addiction treatment, it is basically a psychiatrist's appointment, which is clearly described as a health fund service and which should also be provided by addicts. The following activities will certainly be planned in the coming years. First, ARV medicines should be given to all HIV patients. We are in a situation, as has been said, where treatment has 38% of them, which means that this volume must be nearly tripled. In terms of the state budget, we have used this logic this year that ARV medicines are an estimated cost, which means that they will be procured as many as they are needed. So basically, as of today, the problem is how we get HIV-positive to systemic treatment. On the money side, the issue has been resolved because these costs are imputable: those who need them will also receive treatment. Secondly, the Health Insurance Fund prepares HIV treatment guidelines on the basis of a handbook on the preparation of treatment guidelines in Estonia. In February of this year, so a few months ago, the Ministry of Social Affairs initiated this subject by communicating with the Health Insurance Fund. This idea has been accepted by the Medical Guidance Board so that it will be developed this year. The purpose of the treatment guide is to contribute to the earliest possible diagnosis of HIV infection, initiation of treatment and continuity of treatment. This is precisely the guide to behaviour with the patient, which states what a family doctor or specialist should do, who at some stage diagnoses HIV, how the patient moves between different levels of health care, how to integrate social service providers, etc. Thirdly, HIV testing must be extended, in particular by involving primary health care. The lion's share of HIV tests is performed in anonymous HIV offices or rapid testing events. A total of 187500 HIV tests were carried out in 2014, but only 4.8% of them were carried out by family doctors. In 2016, a so-called mass test project is planned at certain family medicine centres in Narva and elsewhere in Ida-Virumaa. We are trying to make the situation more clear on a population basis. Fourthly, it is undoubtedly a priority to improve access to addiction treatment, both in-patient rehab and methadone replacement therapy. Since HIV-positive people still have many addiction problems, integrated ARV and methadone substitution treatment services are planned to be extended to Ida-Viru County, as has already been said, and the volume of substitution treatment for opioid dependence needs to be increased and regional availability improved. A solution needs to be developed to ensure that substitution treatment for opioid dependence in small places is available, either with the help of family doctors or pharmacists, because this service cannot be provided in any other way anywhere, but should also be available in smaller places. In addition, there is a need to develop the inpatient care service in Ida-Virumaa, as this service is currently available only in Tallinn. Fifthly, there is a need to improve access to harm reduction services, syringe exchange and counselling services. There is a need to increase the volume of harm reduction services and to improve their regional availability. The greatest need is in Tartu, Pärnu and Rakvere. In smaller places, consideration should be given to including pharmacies in the distribution of clean syringes, of which, unfortunately, the latter are not too interested. Sixthly, improving monitoring and evaluation. Currently, data on the actual number of HIV infected patients are estimated because it is not known how many people who have been diagnosed so far are still alive and living in Estonia. Since HIV testing was previously anonymous, double diagnosis may also be reflected in the available data. It is therefore necessary to model the actual number of surviving HIV infected patients. In addition, a more accurate analysis of the reasons for discontinuation should be performed. As Mr Herkel pointed out, the situation is sad, and we do not systematically know all the reasons. The last question: 'How do you assess cooperation with the Institute for Health Development and other organisations and bodies dealing with the HIV problem? Have prevention projects in this area been successful? ' Cooperation with the Institute for Health Development and other relevant organisations and bodies in the field has been very close. However, the role of the health care system in the provision of services needs to be further enhanced. Over the years, there have been different prevention activities for different target groups, which can be considered relatively effective. For example, according to a survey carried out in 2015 by young people aged 14 to 29 years, the awareness of HIV testing opportunities among young people has significantly improved and the number of young people tested for HIV has increased significantly, especially in the 19 to 29-year-old group. Thus, 2015 data show a nearly double increase in HIV testing levels among young people compared to 2010. As has been said, in some target groups, this work has been more effective. For example, 87% of people injecting drugs in Narva were tested for HIV in their lifetime and 93% of those who turned out to be HIV positive in the study were already aware of their infection. Some studies have been carried out in Tallinn, the results of which have been slightly worse, but I am not going to read everything to you here. Cooperation has been good, the situation has certainly improved significantly in terms of raising awareness, but there is still, and indeed, as has already been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U169	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U170	Thank you. Firstly, I would like to confirm that, despite the end of the HIV strategy, all the activities that were carried out last year, when the HIV strategy was in place, will also be pursued this year. So the lack of a strategy has certainly not prevented these activities. However, in answer to the question why this has not been done, I would say that the opinion of previous ministers has been that the HIV strategy could be integrated into the Public Health Development Plan, i.e. the same tasks and activities could be formulated in the broader Health Development Plan, which is the Public Health Development Plan. It has its advantages, because the fragmentation of development plans at national level is a problem, there are ten in every ministry and none of them have a final overview. So the general direction has been to have more complete blocks. My decision has been that the issue of HIV is particularly problematic and therefore a priority for the Ministry of Social Affairs. It tends to dissolve slightly in the larger development plan, which is why I have given the Ministry of Social Affairs the task of developing a separate action plan in this area. Whether it is a development plan, a strategy or a green, white or any book, as I have said, does not, in my view, matter at all. Objectives and activities shall be clearly analysed, identified and validated. This process is going on, but, as I said, the fact that we do not have a separate action plan this year does not mean that we do not have any action. The activities are still ongoing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U171	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In 2009, the Estonian Society for Infection Diseases decided to establish a database of HIV-positive patients in order to achieve continuous monitoring of patients' disease costs by constantly supplementing it. How successful are you to maintain and complete this database and how necessary do you think it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U173	Thank you. Part of this HIV treatment guide or, more generally, this action plan certainly applies directly to this database. In order for us to be able to plan activities and monitor how people are being treated, we need to have a clear picture of what is happening and who these people are. In fact, of course, the aim of our view could be to connect this database to the health information system, so that the HIV issue is combined with other health data and doctors can provide more effective treatment. Of course, this database clearly has its own specificity, it's a little different. Let's just say that, in the coming years, we want to harmonise both this standard and several standards for maintaining other databases, so that these data are also widely used, in the sense that they are interoperable for other healthcare professionals and can be used to treat patients more effectively. For example, the register for the registration of drug users is another register where the availability of data is, let's say, rather problematic because some service providers have entered the data, others are not there and there are no proper statistics. I already mentioned the problem that we are not quite sure whether everyone we consider to be HIV positive is alive or not at all. Cross-checking this register with another register would be a problem that would be easy to solve, but at the moment these registers are not compatible. We will definitely continue to work on this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U174	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U175	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! If I understood you correctly, you have said a few times today that the success of combating HIV is not just about money. However, how much additional money do you think the Ministry of Social Affairs would need to be significantly more efficient and successful than it would be, and if there were a miracle and you would receive this extra money, where would you start spending it, where would you primarily contribute?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U176	Thank you. As has been said, we are applying for an additional EUR 1.5 million from the national budget strategy for the years 2017 to 2020; half of these are intended to provide long-term rehabilitation services, i.e. the same type of treatment provided in Viljandi, which is the most expensive service, and with the rest of the money, which amounts to EUR 600000, a very large number of the activities that have been mentioned today can be carried out. The Ministry has a detailed financial analysis of how much each new methadone treatment point or site costs. As has been said, a very large number of these services are not very expensive; they are actually beautifully cheap. With EUR 100000, there is also a great deal to be done in this area in terms of access to services. For the purposes of these indicas concerning the expansion of services such as needle exchange, medathon replacement therapy and various forms of addiction treatment, I am moderately optimistic that we will also be able to obtain additional resources in the context of the country's budgetary strategy. That's one side of it. The other side, which we have not put enough pressure on, say, so far, is that some of these services are inherently funded by the Health Insurance Fund. So far, they have been funded as a national task from the Institute for Health Development through a state budget allocation, but in fact, if we take addictive treatment for example, it basically means receiving a psychiatrist. The psychiatrist's reception is a normal healthcare service, which should be financed on the basis of the general principle, as health care services have been funded. So when we talk about this one and a half million euros, I say that with a million and a half a year it is possible to make a qualitative leap in the prevention and treatment of HIV and drug addiction, and there is certainly some part of it that can also be transferred to the health fund. In creating the action plan, we have been guided by measures that can in principle be launched next year. These are the things that science says they need to be done, where there are no substantive obstacles to why they should not be done, for example, by extending methadone replacement therapy to other cities. These things could be done right from next year, and we would already achieve a qualitative leap. Then there will be some more expensive services, which in itself will certainly be worth discussing in the next stages of the process, such as safe injection rooms and other things that have been pointed out by the various parties. But it is such a simple, very quick package, with a price cap of about EUR 1 and a half million today, but, as I said, a little bit more needs to be worked out on how much of these costs are, by nature, the cost of the health insurance fund. The Health Insurance Fund should pay more attention to prevention in the longer term, because if the same HIV-positive person without health insurance finally comes to the ER with tuberculosis, then there we will treat him anyway and pay a lot of money for it. It would be much more reasonable, both socially and cost-wise, to keep a person in ARV treatment so that he does not encounter these problems. This requires a change in the way many parties think. It has to be said that apart from a few enthusiasts, no psychiatrists want to work hard with addicts. As has been said, drug addiction and HIV are still very closely linked.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U177	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns case management services and psychosocial counselling for HIV-positive women, especially HIV-positive women in ARV treatment, as well as HIV-positive pregnant women. It is a very important service in which the social and health system should operate hand in hand. Why is this important? This is one of the places where the so-called treatment discontinuations are also pursued and even go home for them if necessary. In how many regions is such a specific case management service currently available and what steps are envisaged to extend the provision of this service?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U179	I owe you an answer, because if I said something, I might hurt someone. But in general two things need to be borne in mind. Firstly, this case management is certainly part of the broader integration of the social and health system, the harmonisation of the national social and health system, the national and local authorities system, and the national and local authorities systems, as well as the NGO. Well, we're not good with that. Some say it's not our job, let someone else handle it. Family doctors often say that they are not social workers and why they should be concerned that no one gets to them, that if they don't, they won't. I am more convinced that, like a basic school teacher, he cannot say that he is only teaching at school and whether or not a child reaches school and whether or not he is socially well or not is not a matter for him or her, so a family doctor must certainly take care that a person gets the services he or she needs if his or her supply falls outside the competence of a family doctor. I don't think it's necessary to talk very long about how this ball is bounced, whether it's the local government or the state that has to give money to where and to what extent the services are provided. Honestly, it's sad. The Ministry of Social Affairs is trying to create such a new model on certain issues so that we can still try to test new options for certain services and look for a new financing model that would encourage proper cooperation at different levels, so that all parties would be interested in resolving a person's problem rather than constantly trying to prove where one or the other competence goes. It's natural that people try to pin problems on someone else to let others deal with them. But in a person's view, it doesn't make any sense or make any sense. I know some positive examples of HIV and drug patients. For example, the same Viljandi long-term rehabilitation service, after which the hospital itself finances social counselling. In fact, they are practically dealing with case management, or helping people with debt counselling, directing them to the local government and unemployment fund to find a job, etc. They do it because they know no one else would. But, of course, this problem needs a systemic solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U180	The seventh question is a question submitted by Anneli Oti, Toomas Vitsut, Mikhail Korbi, Aadu Musta, Jaanus Karilaidi, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Esmaa, Andrei Novikov, Oudekki Loone, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu and Märt Sultsi, members of the Riigikogu. It is also presented to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. I ask Anneli Oti to speak on behalf of the inquisitors!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Our questioning concerns problems with paternity leave. Since 2013, paternity leave was restored in Estonia, for which the fee is paid from the state budget. The paternity allowance is calculated on the basis of the father's average salary, but is not paid more than three times the average gross wage in Estonia in the previous quarter. Paternity leave can be taken by fathers during the period immediately preceding and following the birth of the child. A total of 10 working days can be taken. Fathers have been able to use ten working days' paternity leave since 2002. Paternity leave is regulated by the Employment Contracts Act. This law provides that only fathers who work under an employment contract can take paternity leave. This is where the problem arises, for example, that this provision excludes self-employed persons. According to Statistics Estonia, there were 27000 self-employed persons in Estonia in 2014. I think the number of self-employed people in Estonia is large enough to talk about this problem more widely here, although for obvious reasons not all of them are the target group for the 27000 problems. Paternity leave for self-employed persons is a problem because there are occupations that can be regarded as no other than self-employed persons, such as bailiffs and notaries. Since 2001, the post of bailiff has been a freelancer, following the example of notaries. A bailiff, like a notary, holds a public office in his own name and responsibility as a liberal profession, in other words, an independent person holding a public office. The bailiff's activities are governed by public law rules and acts in public relations, using the powers conferred on it by the State. However, in terms of accounting and taxation, he and the notary are treated as self-employed. This restriction shows that self-employed people are in an unequal position compared to those working under a contract of employment. The self-employed cannot use the free time provided by the state to fathers, which is crucial after the birth of the child. If self-employed persons were to remain at home after the child was born, it would mean a direct financial loss because they would not be able to earn remuneration at the same time. In this regard, we have put three questions to the Minister for Health and Labour. Why has this situation arisen, and how is it justified that self-employed persons are excluded from receiving paternity leave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U182	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U183	Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer your three questions. The first question: 'Why is the possibility of paternity leave granted only to fathers working under a contract of employment? ' The right of leave in general applies to a person working under a contract of employment in the relationship between the employer and the employee. Holiday is one of the legal grounds which, according to § 19 of the Employment Contracts Act, entitles an employee to refuse to work. There is no right of leave for a self-employed person or a person working under a contract of command or employment, who has greater autonomy in terms of the logic of these forms of employment to decide on the time and scope of their work. Therefore, rather than asking why self-employed persons do not have paternity leave, you should rather ask why self-employed persons do not have a contract of employment holiday regulation. As has been said, there are differences between employees on the basis of employment contracts and on other grounds, i.e. contracts concluded under the FIEs and the Law of Obligations Act, i.e. those working under a contract of command or employment. Presumably, people enter into a contract of employment, which includes a specific period of work that is clearly regulated, we also have an upper limit in the law, usually 40 hours a week, and the employee cannot choose on his own initiative when he or she works. This is decided in cooperation with the employer, and there are certain general rules and rules. It is expected that the working hours of those who work either as a self-employed person or under a contract of command or employment will be more flexible and this is probably one of the reasons why they have chosen such a form of employment. Now the common answer to the second and third questions. The second question: 'Do you think it is fair that self-employed people are not guaranteed paternity leave? ' The third question: 'Notaries and bailiffs are obliged to register as self-employed persons. However, because of this form of entrepreneurship, they are unable to get paternity leave. How do you comment on this situation? ' As far as this general issue is concerned, I believe that today's regulation has its own clear logic and does not need to be changed in this respect. The logic of the whole mechanism of self-employment, its taxation and other matters are fundamentally different from those of a contract staff member and, as a result, it is justified to have a completely different holiday regime. Paternity leave, as has been said, is part of the broader holiday regulation. As I understand it, the core of the question is that certain persons must be mandatory self-employed under the law. Here mention was made of notaries and bailiffs who have opted for a certain free invitation and who do not have the option of deciding which legal form of work they are operating in, nor are they subject to a corresponding holiday regulation. The problem is self-evident, but the implementing body of the Notariat Act and the Law on bailiffs is the Ministry of Justice, who knows the internal functioning of these professions better than the Ministry of Social Affairs. I dare not take any position on the organisation of the work of notaries and bailiffs, how much flexibility they have to regulate themselves, when they take one holiday or another, including paternity leave. In our opinion, there is no substantive mandatory reason why bailiffs and notaries should act precisely and exclusively in a legal form such as the self-employed. But on these issues, the Minister of Justice will no doubt be able to answer you more meaningfully than I can answer here as Minister of Health and Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U184	Thank you. There are no questions. Do you want to negotiate? There's no call. We're done answering the seventh question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U185	Let's keep going. Today's eighth question has been submitted by Riigikogu members Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm, Ain Lutsepp and Jüri Adams. The inquiry is about buying out the border countries of South-East Estonia and is presented to the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. In the name of the heirs, please speak to Küllik's Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U186	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I hope the Minister arrives sometime. [[Intermediate note from the floor.]] Oh, it's a pleasure. Members of the Free Party Group have indeed submitted an inquiry into buying out the border countries of South-East Estonia. This problem was once again very clearly acknowledged even more than a month ago during our visit to Põlva County. Namely, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board discovered in 2015 that they should start building the border. For this purpose, land valuation began and then private owners started to buy out the border areas of South-East Estonia that are necessary for the construction of the state border. As of February this year, negotiations had started with 108 landowners whose land the country wished to acquire. According to our data, 82 of them agreed to sell their land and 26 owners did not quickly reach an agreement with the country. It is claimed that the government does not take into account the real value of the land or its characteristics when determining the price, such as when the land grows in good condition and determines the price too low, makes it frustrating for the inhabitants of the state's border areas. Some owners feel that this is not fair and seriously undermines their ownership. The average price per square metre of land is 5.8 cents. Certainly, building a state border is an important national necessity that landowners understand mostly. At the same time, people's concerns must also be understood. It is important for the country that people in border regions do not feel disappointed as if they had been treated unfairly. The emotional value of the land of the ancestors must also be taken into account. We also fail to understand why ownership of this country is considered to be the only possible solution. We have five questions. But I'll bring up what we're waiting for. We expect the government to see the whole picture after this question. Indeed, the same issue of land acquisition is not only linked to the border, but also to nature conservation countries and will soon be very seriously connected with the construction of Rail Baltic. We must consider that people understand when it is necessary to give up their land for the benefit of the country, but the proportions must be in place. This raises the question of what has been repeatedly raised in this Chamber, whether this proportionality is achieved by paying a specific amount or by some other possible transactions, such as land exchange. We look forward to the Minister's views and the clear overall picture of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U187	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U188	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I am happy to discuss this burning issue, which is certainly very important for many people living along the border. Now the questions. The first question: "Which decisions, starting points and methodology have Domus Kinnisvara carried out the valuation of the land, and how has price formation taken into account the specific characteristics of the land under assessment? ' Let's start with how we got to Domus Kinnisvara in the first place. In particular, we announced public procurement and last year, on 25 May, the Commission set up by the Police and Border Guard Board for the organisation of public procurement declared Domus Kinnisvara the winner of the public procurement. Maid was assessed on the basis of the valuation standard EVS 875-12:2010 "Assessment for compensation' and the forest valuation was carried out on the basis of the methodology used for the regular valuation of the land by the Government of the Republic in the 2011 Order of the Government of the Republic. elik Domus Kinnisvara was based on valuation standards. If you come to the size of the cut so that there is an overview of it, 54 properties have a cut size of less than 0.1 ha, 46 properties have less than 0.9 ha and 21 properties have a cut size greater than 1 hectare. It is worth pointing out that the cut-off is an elongated narrow strip located right along the border of the state. Of course, Domus Kinnisvara was based on the specific characteristics of the land and that is why these prices are so. In very many cases, there is nothing to be done on those parcels that were cut off. But what a real estate expert couldn't judge is an emotional side. This cannot be assessed by a real estate expert and we may come back to this in the course of questions and answers. The second question: 'How exactly has negotiations been held with landowners, who are responsible for this at the Ministry of the Interior and at the PBGB, and what is the total amount of the state budget intended to buy out the border area? " We took as a principle the assumption that when we transfer lands, we need to talk to each individual individually. There are not many of them, as you said in your inquiry, so we can talk to everyone. True, the starting point was a letter with my signature, from there the people of the Police and Border Guard Board were already communicating. Direct contacts have been established with all landowners, and most of them have also been directly met, depending on their time and place of choice, these meetings have taken place at work and also at home during off-work periods. The majority of landowners have been met more than once, among other things. People have been given time to discuss the subject. The total amount we have planned for the acquisition of these countries is up to EUR 700000. But there must also be the costs of labelling, surveying, setting servitudes, cuttings at the notary, etc. That's the amount we have to use. The third question: 'Why is the price offered per square metre mostly very low and seems unfair to landowners? " As I said in answer to the first question, the price per square metre comes first and foremost from the nature of the property. Domus Kinnisvara's expert assessment is based on the land's intended purpose and, of course, they must assess the land according to the valuation methodology and standard already mentioned. Nevertheless, the evaluator was instructed in the evaluation order that it could be based on the assumption that there would be no restriction on use under the State Border Law. This means that the assessment of the land provided a presumption that the landowner could hypothetically use the border area, i.e. it was not based on the existence of a state border law that would not allow humans to use the land anyway. So that's the limit we even took away when we assessed the land. The valuation was also asked to take as a basis the transactions of low-value land at a higher price in the vicinity and the forest valuation based on the intermediate warehouse prices of the State Forest Management Centre, which are usually higher than the normal buying-in prices. However, most of the cuts, as I said, cannot, unfortunately, be seen as an asset that the owner could freely trade on the market. These areas are elongated narrow strips, overwhelms of ditches and river basins, which are certainly not a "classical" marketable asset. 'How have the arguments against landowners been heard and appreciated, and how have they been taken into account? ' Of course, it has to be said that there have been no direct arguments against it; rather, the comparative offers have revealed that the price offered is realistic and, as you yourself mentioned, the landowner has accepted the value of compensation in most cases. We have tried to be very flexible, giving landowners the opportunity to choose whether to dispose of the land where the forest is growing on top, to the country with the forest, or to keep the forest. In the latter case, the forest has been moved by agreement to a reasonable place suitable for them, which is at a reasonable distance. For example, we have also taken the cut - off forest to the man's home yard. The purpose of the negotiations is not to get a 'quick signature', but to reach an agreement with people, given their wishes and, of course, what the expert opinion is. Question 4: 'Why have other possible settlement agreements (building right, servitude) not been discussed alongside the purchase and expropriation of land to the state? ' In parallel with the disposal process, it is planned that the setting of servitude will be applied to the access routes to the border strip. In order to obtain agreements with landowners, it is also considered to offer a price for the land to meet the parties' expectations and cover the costs of the disposal. We are now considering whether, as a 'one-sided offer', we can agree to pay an equal sum for everyone. At the moment, we are waiting for an answer from the Ministry of Finance as to whether they too think it is correct under the Treasury Act. If we get a final estimate from the Ministry of Finance that it is correct, we will be ready for all landowners to pay evenly and quite noticeably to those whose compensation value was, for example, some ten euros. I now ask, of course, not to lock it down and not to assume that all people will definitely receive this money, because the prerequisite is the evaluation of the Ministry of Finance and a rapid legal analysis. What this exact amount is, it may be clear in the coming days, but we have now considered that we are offering an extra EUR 1 000 for each of us, even if this piece of land cost EUR 20 by expert opinion. So in some cases, we're going to pay 100 times that. Question 5: How likely do you consider it to be to use expropriation and how does this affect the timetable for the completion of the border? Has anyone been subject to expropriation proceedings or started? ' No, no expropriation process has been initiated at this time. As I said, our interest is to reach an agreement with everyone. If we were to start the expropriation process, it would certainly also affect the construction of a state border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U189	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. Speaking in a position. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U190	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U191	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U192	Thank you, manager. Good Minister, thank you for your answers. But I'm still asking you to check my answer! We were in contact with the landowners this morning and it turned out that the letters sent at the end of last year had not been answered and, if the owners had sent their own answers, they had not received a reply and, unfortunately, some admitted that communication was still through the media. I'm sure you should take a look at this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U193	Thank you, manager. I want to make a remark. I would argue that in the event of an exchange of lands, there would be some emotional connection, because a person could then continue to manage the land. That's all that matters to him. Since the country has quite a lot of land, this problem is not that new estates can be very far from the owner. I still suggest you consider the land change option. I know its biggest opponent is the Ministry of Finance, but hopefully there will be a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U194	Prayer is this emotional value to calculate, because the people of the periphery are a little bit more sensitive to mentality and need more care, because our country is a little bit distant from them. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U195	I'd love to. Please state the specific address...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U196	Please, let's move on to the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U197	Thank you. As I said, we are now at the end of this and hopefully we will receive a response from the Ministry of Finance this week. Then we can offer equal compensation to everyone. This amount would in any event be "outside the market price'. If you know a particular landowner who has not received a reply to his letter, please let me know who that person is. I have a table here with the names of all the landowners and the compensation values of the land, so we can see who it was specifically and what the problem is, and if he has not been answered, I will ask you to contact this person as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U198	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U199	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I'm coming back to the service. I wasn't in the room when it was mentioned, but I listened to you through the speakers. I didn't understand, which still prevents us from adopting a law that would create a chance to make a servitude to the control line. Then all these needs, both the need to negotiate and the need to spend money, would disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U200	Thank you. When building a state border, in order to avoid any disputes, it makes perfect sense for the entire land under state borders to belong to the state. That is why, of course, we have preferred a clear ownership relationship, which also means that the state is the owner of land under state borders. Given that, to a large extent, landowners have already given their consent by now, I am quite optimistic that we will also be able to conclude the last agreements and people will understand that the servitude will not change anything in their lives. Servicing rights also need to be negotiated, namely whether or not the service is remunerated and what other conditions are. In any case, it is more reasonable and clear if the country is the owner of these countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U201	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, First of all, your public answers have probably been waiting for a lot of landowners, but the questions remain. The emotional side that real estate experts cannot judge must not be underestimated. That was also the point of our question as to why the other settlement agreements referred to above have not been considered. It would probably be cheaper, if it was a servitude or a building right, whatever, and that would solve this emotional problem. You said it was better to buy out these land. We can accept that, but, excuse me, we had this border area up until the Eston Kohver case, for a long time. However, perhaps it would be better to reach agreements that would clearly keep people at the border on the "state side."
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U203	Thank you. We will certainly achieve the agreements that keep people on the side of the country. I believe these people are also on the side of the country today. It is important to us that all the relations we have with our owners, not only on the border, but also in close proximity to the border and a little further away, are very friendly. The people living along the border are certainly very important to Estonia. We have no interest in repressing anyone there; our interest is that we can make agreements. If anyone wants to discuss building rights, we'll discuss it. But first of all, as I said, we have proposed to people that relations be settled, both in their opinion and in our view, to move forward through the purchasing process. Now we want to offer everyone, as I said, an additional compensation that takes into account precisely the emotional side that the real estate evaluator cannot count on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U204	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U205	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Many landowners have an emotional relationship with their country, it is the land of their ancestors, and they do not want to give it up. Why has the option of giving them a replacement land not been considered? After all, the country does not have a shortage of land or a lack of forest. In my opinion, this would have been the easiest option, and I think that these tensions would not have arisen. Why hasn't it been considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U206	Thank you. Once again, I say that we have tried to find a clear solution. There's no way we can put the emotional value of the replacement land into dimension. If the value of a parcel is estimated at EUR 20, then it is very difficult to obtain equal conditions here. Hectare-by-Hectare comparisons can be made, but then you have to start looking for the same number of hectares of land and it is not known whether it is suitable for humans or not. We certainly cannot assume that we will take a hectare of land for land use from the border where there is no construction right and replace it with some land of the same size, for example, in Värska municipality or in some centre. The area can, of course, be the same, Värska municipality. We are trying to conclude these negotiations nicely with everyone, and we are, in any case, interested in achieving these agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U207	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U208	Good manager! Good minister! Are Saatse's boots and surrounding landowners also among the 108 landowners with whom negotiations have been or are ongoing and who can count on this €1000 allowance?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U209	Thank you. We have built on today's baseline and, of course, we have also looked at the border agreement to be ratified. If the country has had to make a cut somewhere on the border and the cut we have proposed is on somebody's property, then this property will go into this calculation. We are talking about the Saatse boot currently owned by the Russian Federation, and we will certainly not pay any compensation to the Russian Federation. So these things are still going through solitary. We can offer compensation and bid only for those whose country is at the border of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U210	We are going to the ninth inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Uno Kaskpeit, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild on the 8th day of March 2016. An inquiry shall be made in respect of the early promotion of a police officer's rank and shall bear the number 172. Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. I ask Uno Kaskpeiti, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to introduce his inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U211	Mr. President! Mr. Minister! The subject of our inquiry is, yes, an early upgrade of the status of a police officer. According to the Police and Border Guard Act, the service level of a police officer must be at the age of three years from the junior constable to the level of service of the police captain and four years from the level of service of the police major to the level of service of the police general. The Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board (PPA) has obtained the status of a police officer as follows: by order of the Minister of the Interior of 30 December 2009, he became a police colonel lieutenant, by order of the Minister of the Interior of 10 May 2013 as police colonel and by order of the Minister of the Interior of 22 February 2016 as police general inspector. We ask you to answer the following questions on the basis of § 139 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Firstly, on what basis was Mr. Vaher given the status of the police colonel six months before the deadline? Secondly, what led to Mr. Vaher's early appointment as a police general? This rank was awarded more than a year before the law. Thirdly, had the Minister forgotten the scandal that took place in January 2016 around the boots and headphones of the Director-General of the PBA, or was it a positive fact when the ranking of the police general was considered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U212	Thank you. I ask the Minister of the Interior of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Hanno Pevkuri, to answer an inquiry, which bears number 172.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U213	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'm going to the questions right now. The first question is about the level of service of the police colonel given to Mr Vaher. The Order of the Government of the Republic of 18 April 2013 whereby Elmar Vaher was appointed as Director General from 2 May 2013 to 1 May 2018 assumed, in principle, that the Director General must be at least a police colonel. Paragraph 50 (5) of the Police and Border Guard Act provides for this, which states that the ranks of the post of Director-General of the PBGB are a police colonial, a police general inspector or a police general. Since, at the time Elmar Vaher was appointed Director General, he was a police colonial lieutenant, the Minister of the Interior promoted Elmar Vaher retroactively on 10 May 2013, since he was appointed a police colonel. That right has been given to the Minister of the Interior. The second question: 'What was the reason for Mr. Vaher's appointment to serve as a police general on an early date? " First, a clarification. Elmar Vaher is not a police general, Elmar Vaher is a police general inspector. One thing that should be borne in mind, of course, is that the levels of service of police officers are traditionally reviewed before the anniversary of the Republic, but with this upgrade, I think it was most important that the entire human service be reviewed before the level of service of the police general inspector is granted. Elmar Vaher's 20-year service as a whole has certainly been such that he deserves the rank of police general inspector. The third question concerned what happened a few months earlier. I'm sure the Minister of the Interior hadn't forgotten what happened then. But as I said, we review our grades once a year, usually before the anniversary of the Republic. Of course, if you look at the two months that preceded the increase in service, there will be one feeling, but if you look at all these 20 years, there will certainly be other emotions when you look at Elmar Vaher's career. That's why I thought it was right to advance Elmar Vaher's rank this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U214	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U215	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. How many police officers have been upgraded before the deadline during your term of ministering? Who have they been, and in what positions, and for what reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U216	Thank you. I don't have that kind of information on me. I'm gonna have to take my order and see if there were any of those people. I can tell you that, together with Elmar Vaher, the rank of police general inspector in Afghanistan is now Tarmo Milit, representing Estonia and the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U217	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U218	Good President! Good minister! I remember the glorious yellow card you gave to Elmar Vaher. I come back to this question, which I may have once asked, that what this yellow map really is. Is this some kind of new method of punishment for infringements? Let's just say, wouldn't it have been tactically wiser to come to this promotion a year later?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U219	Thank you. It is certainly possible to make different decisions and come out with them at different times. But as soon as it went to discuss such athletic terms, I say that football has a yellow card with a well-known warning measure that still does not remove the player from the field. It signals that human behavior has given rise to a warning, but he can continue to play, and if he scores after that, then all football fans in euphoria are that they scored a goal, even though a minute earlier this player received a yellow card. If you put this game into real life, I guess it was a little bit like that. On the eve of the Republic's anniversary, when we review the ranks of police officers, I had to appreciate all this. I took as a basis for the evaluation the 20-year service of Elmar Vaher for the Republic of Estonia and the Estonian people and considered it right that the two men in police service, Tarmo Miilits and Elmar Vaher, both deserve the rank of police general inspector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U220	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U221	Good manager! Good Minister of the Interior! As we know, the first police general was our good colleague, Raivo Aeg, who became a general on 12 November 2010. How many police generals have a place in the P.P.A. system, and when could you elevate the next person to a general?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U222	Thank you. Time will tell if it's me or someone else, but I'm convinced that one day the next person will come to get the rank of police general. First of all, it's not a police general, it's the rank of a police general, it's the previous step, so there's gonna be more police general inspectors. When exactly will it happen, time and not Raivo Time will show it. That's what life shows.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U223	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U224	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I recall that we have already spoken once before about the mentality of a culture of corruption in the context of your ministry. You're telling us here how you thought it was necessary, right and justified, but all these words apply to the fact that you actually broke the rules by raising the Mediar. You thought it was necessary to break the rules, but I don't know what it was for. I didn't understand what you were saying. Can you explain it again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U225	Thank you. I don't know how you know I broke the rules. The law provides for an opportunity for the Minister of the Interior to decide whether or not the Director-General of the Police has the rank of police general inspector. This decision-making power has been given to the Minister of the Interior. There has certainly not been any violation of the rules here. Under the Police and Border Guard Act, the Minister of the Interior has the right to advance the level of service even before the deadline expires.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U226	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U227	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! The law also says that such a person must have integrity in his service. At the same time, you gave yourself a yellow card that precludes impeccable service. It was just a remark about the previous question and its answer. Instead, I ask how much Mr Vaher's monthly income increased because of the higher rank you gave before the deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U228	Thank you. Elmar Vaher's salary, total salary, didn't change. The police, as we know, have different wage components. The total salary of Elmar Vaher did not change by changing this level of service.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U229	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U230	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You may have the right to raise your grade at your discretion, but if there are rules that say that a certain number of years of service must have been fulfilled, you must still have a little tact when exercising this right, as I say. You could have acted to appoint this man to act, let him be a performer for six months, and then raise his rank. My question is this: do we have rules for meeting ministers, or do we have a voluntaristic country where ministers do what they want?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U231	Thank you. Ministers follow the law in the Republic of Estonia. The law provides opportunities for making one decision or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U232	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U233	Thank you. This assignment was a very interesting situation. It was actually completely silenced in the media. There was no mention of this in the PBA, and when it finally came out in the media, the minister took the floor in the inland waterway and began to justify and explain. What's with all this cover-up and some really weird behavior? I think it devalues rank or, alright, rank. At least they didn't make that kind of joke in the Defence Forces back in the day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U234	Thank you for your question. It must be said in retrospect that it could certainly have been given more attention. When I had made that decision, I read the decision to upgrade this level of service at the ceremony of the police and border guards, there was also a picture, and I did not really think that it would get any attention. As a hindsight, I say that in making the next decisions, no matter what they will be for the grades of service, but if they are related to higher levels of service, we will certainly try to get more attention in the media as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U235	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U236	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm going to be more specific about this football thing. I mean, if a player gets a yellow card on the field and almost deliberately hits his own gate, then the coach usually takes him off the field after a while. Okay. I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U237	Maybe there was no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U238	Mr Minister, as you wish, answer or do not answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U239	Let it go.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U240	Okay, no more questions. Thank you! Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. No negotiations will be opened. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U241	We are going to the tenth inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Toomas Vitsut, Peeter Ernits, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassiliev, Aadu Must, Anneli Ott, Jaanus Karilaid, Erki Savisaar, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Eesmaa, Dmitri Dmitriev, Oudekki Loone, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu and Mailis Reps on the 10th day of March 2016. The inquiry is about the restructuring of the Rescue Board. Reply by Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Please ask Toomas Vitsut, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, to introduce him to the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U242	Mr. President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The trust of the Estonian people in the workers of the Rescue Board and their work is quite high, as has been demonstrated by public opinion studies. That kind of trust doesn't just happen, but you still have to do a good job. I think the Rescue Board has done a pretty good job in Estonia. At the same time, the Rescue Board has been very much reformed over the years, for example, the number of employees of the Rescue Board decreased by 115 in the years 2010-2015. These reforms often or most often mean that they are tightened: the number of people working in this institution is tightened, resources are often reduced, and the number of commandos he has across Estonia is also reduced in the Rescue Board. It has also sounded quite many times and long ago that such reforms, or this tightening, have exhausted themselves, the police and the Rescue Board should not be pulled together again, as this could lead to changes in the quality of their work. As a result, the interviewers have asked the honourable Minister for Home Affairs a number of questions to find out where the border is and exactly what it means when it comes to another reform. A thought structure such as the possible home security of the rescuers has been introduced. What does that mean? In fact, we are interested in the problem regionally. The arrival of rescuers in Tallinn is not likely to be delayed after this tightening, but if a rescue team is assembled in a remote corner of Estonia, the firefighters can only arrive by the time they can erase the guns. In some of these cases, the question has arisen that, if the rescuers had arrived earlier, would it have been possible to put the fire out more effectively? If we now take a step further or, rather, back again, there will be more questions as to whether the rescuers will be able to arrive anywhere in Estonia by the time they are expected. I'm not going to read the questions separately. 18 Members of the Central Party Group and I have submitted them and we expect answers from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U243	Thank you. I ask the Minister of the Interior of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Hanno Pevkuri, who will answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U244	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! The subject is very exciting and intriguing; a debate on a very important national issue could be held on this subject. But I'd take it in a while, then maybe there's a little bit more analysis. Let's get to the questions. The first question: 'Please introduce and explain further action plans related to the activities of the Rescue and Rescue Board on the desk of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Rescue Board! " This answer alone could be spent several hours. But let's go over some of the most important things. I would like to draw the attention of the inquisitors to the fact that the main orientations are set out in the Internal Security Development Plan (IDP), which has been established for the years 2015 to 2020. There are also good examples of general trends affecting internal security, including the field of rescue. But now some of the keywords we need to follow in our long-term planning when we look at the Rescue Board's activities. It should be taken into account that the number of fire accidents and the number of deaths and injuries suffered by them has been decreasing for the last ten years in a row. If you look at our rescue service in terms of both location and response rate alone, I dare say that we are perfectly comparable to our northern neighbours, if not to say that in some areas even better. If you look at the wallet again, I have said in the past that in the area of internal security as a whole we no longer have much room for grinding. I said this here in the debate on the main lines of security policy, and I also agree with that now. However, I am also aware that the state's purse is not likely to grow at such a rate in the coming years as it may have increased in 2005, 2006 and 2007, that we are certainly in a position to look at real circumstances, where we need to analyse whether and to what extent the provision of rescue services to the people of Estonia is sustainable. When we are done with this analysis, we will be happy to introduce it to the members of the Riigikogu. We have also asked for help from external evaluators to get an objective look at the Estonian rescue service, the location of the commandos and whether we are sustainable or not. On the second question, you are asking how many rescue workers are being laid off. I assume you're talking about 14 job redundancies this year, that's what we're talking about. Let it be said, as a preliminary point, that in 2016, we do not intend to bring together rescuers, at least we have not heard it on the side of the Ministry of the Interior. There's no plan. Well, yes, the government has decided to keep up with certain trends in the labour market, and this also concerns the Rescue Board. The Rescue Board has decided that this decision applies in particular to the restructuring of the Rescue Board and the administration of the Rescue Centres' headquarters. The restructuring will result in the creation of funds that can also be used in the Salvation Board's payroll fund. You asked how many people it concerns. You yourself have said in your inquiry that this concerns 14 jobs. As far as I know, the Rescue Board is actually talking about 12 people. During the restructuring of the rescue system, some people will certainly also receive an offer to transfer to another post. But in fact, as far as I know, this affects 12 people today. The fourth question is about home security. In this regard, we are known to have on-call time in the sense of the law. It's pretty well written in the rescue law, and we're still using it right now. We use it primarily in helping rescue teams, such as Kihnus, Ruhnu and Vormsi. As far as extending it is concerned, we do not intend to do so at the moment. Coming back to the first question for a moment, then, as I said, we look at sustainability as a whole and then we can start to see whether or not we have to make any decisions as a result. You're asking how many rescue commandos are left and how many of them are going to be shut down. I brought the statistics just in case. The number of commandos, 72, has remained this way for the last four years, and from 2013, we have 72 commandos. However, I would like to point out that we also have contracts with volunteer commandos, there are 116 of them in the Rescue Board today, in addition to the four reserve rescue teams, who will certainly help to ensure Estonia's ability to save. The so-called fact piece that was given to me by the Rescue Board is that since regaining independence there have not been as many rescuers as there have been in the Estonian rescue system as a whole this year when we bring together professional and voluntary rescuers. You will ask when it is planned to ensure that the rescuers are adequately equipped and that all command buildings are repaired. It will certainly take a long time to get all the command buildings in such a position that we can be satisfied ourselves. But looking at the last few years, it can be said that progress has actually been quite rapid. We have received a new commando for Lasnamäe, a new house for Võru, a new house for Vormsi, a new house for Häädemeeste, a new house for Tartu, as well as Narva, Kuressaare, Jõhvi. There are currently nine objects in different phases, including the development phase. We have set ourselves the goal of ordering 14 additional command buildings in the coming years, but the most accurate and realistic plans for which buildings could be operational in the coming years are such that they could be the Vastselina and Vändra Command Buildings, where preparations have quite reached the final stage. The country's central real estate capacity depends very much on the future. We will certainly make these decisions in the government with the whole country in mind. Speaking of equipment, this year we also made an additional investment injection to the Rescue Board so that we could acquire personal protection equipment. I also note the investment in technology coming from the European Union. We are planning to acquire over 80 new primary, tank and container cars. At the end of last year, the rescuers received six new ladder cars across Estonia. So we're also working on upgrading equipment, and no extra money going to the wrong place in the rescue service, everything going to the right place. If the Riigikogu finds that it is necessary to give additional money to the rescuers, we will accept it and spend it efficiently and in the right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U245	Thank you. You have questions. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U246	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said the Rescue Board wasn't planning on bringing down the rescuers. But doesn't that just mean that their work is being reorganized and the rescuers are going to be working on home security? You also pointed out the number of rescuers, the number of professional and volunteer rescuers. Perhaps there will be more volunteer rescuers and fewer professional rescuers? Usually, the devil is in the details. Can you confirm that the number of professional rescuers and the nature of their work will not change significantly?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U247	I can assure you that this year neither the head of the Rescue Board nor anyone else has come to me with a story that could reduce the number of professional rescuers working in commandos. It's knowing what I have today. If someone comes to me with a different story, I can consider it. I do not see this need until we have a clear picture of the sustainability of the rescue system. I'll talk to you about volunteers for one more time. We have an agreement with Mr Talvik that we will talk tomorrow about the development of volunteering a little longer. If you have any interest, come here, Mr. Talvik will definitely tell you the time and the place. I think tomorrow at 12:00, yes, we are discussing the development of volunteer rescuers with an internal security volunteer support group. But I dare say that Estonian volunteers are very effective aid to the Estonian rescue system. In Central Europe, in fact, the rescue system is largely built on volunteers. But do not read here that we are moving in the same direction in Estonia. Our life-saving capabilities are better after the changes made in 2013, and there are more life-saving commandos today than in 2012, for example. So we're moving forward step by step. Today, I see no reason for us to reduce the number of professional rescuers without, for example, knowing the Riigikogu, saying that, given the change in the number of working-age population, the number of rescuers still needs to be reduced. But I don't see a way. I have also said that I do not consider it possible to reduce the number of people in internal security as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U248	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U249	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I remember that when this year's state budget was drawn up, the principle was that there were four areas where there were no cuts, and one of them was internal security. What happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U250	Thank you. Sorry, you remember a little wrong! I also said here on the remote that the clippers don't touch the PBA. As regards internal security and the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior as a whole, our task is to bring together 55 people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U251	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U252	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Mr Tammearu visited us in the group. In his honour, despite the very difficult financial situation, he was not complaining but looking to the future. But I want to raise a completely different question that is directly related to the Rescue Board. We had a meeting last week with rural tourism companies, owners of accommodation facilities. The conditions of competition are starting to get worse than the neighbouring countries because of the VAT amendment, but they also said that fire safety requirements and controls are certainly stricter than in neighbouring countries, and at times there is the impression that officials are producing jobs for themselves in order not to remain in work. These are quite a lot of investments that a small business needs to make for security doors and the installation of all these things. Do you think there might be a problem here that it's a little overstretched?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U253	Thank you. I believe that no requirement in security has been overstretched. Someone thinks the smoke detector is annoying and cumbersome, it's the easiest investment in security. As far as accommodation providers are concerned, they are responsible for the life and health of people. Despite strict requirements, we saw that Otepää burned down a hotel. Whether it was caused by arson or not, the investigation shows. Accommodation facilities are certainly of great interest and attention. We all use accommodation services when we're on vacation. There must certainly not be any discounts on security requirements. What exactly these requirements are, it is above all experts say. Whether the door must be in one place or another, whether it must be fire-resistant or not, what other requirements are there, which colours or wall materials may be used, what curtains must be, etc. It is already an expert say. I very much hope that experts will appreciate not only what is extremely important for fire safety, but also what is reasonable and what is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U254	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U255	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! At the end of your reply, you pointed out a very interesting nuance that if the Riigikogu found some sums, you would be happy to accept them. But the fact is that only the coalition participates in the discussion of the country's budget strategy and the assembly of the state budget, the opposition is not involved. Would you propose that, in order to come to the Rescue Board's aid, for example, these same heirs could participate in the discussions on the state budget strategy and in putting together the budget so that we can start from scratch? Unfortunately, it is no longer possible to retrieve funds from the final phase of the line because it is somehow classified information.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U256	Thank you. The procedure of the state budget is not secret, in the sense that if the state budget is approved at the third reading in the Riigikogu, it will still be possible for all the amendments that have come from this Chamber and all the members of the Riigikogu to propose amendments. If you want to know more about the budget for internal security management, then I am always ready for your group to come and show off the line of solitude for which our budget resources are planned, what we can offer people for them, and what our theoretical vision is that if there were no budgetary constraints, what we could do better then.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U257	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U258	Good manager! Good minister! As I understand it, there is such a reality for the rescuers that they have to be on home security for 10 euros a day and 300 euros in a month. If there is a notice that there is a departure, the exceptional overtime fee shall apply. How big is it? As I understand it, the rescuers will rely on the fire to last longer because it is so much better for them, and the tighter the red rooster is waving its wings, the better because the higher the pay. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U259	Thank you. I think you've lost something. As far as on-call time is concerned, we already have it in use in the commandos I mentioned, especially in the small islands. But you may have read one of the news buttons. This concerned, in particular, the handling and preparedness of fire events. Daily response to events is ensured during working hours, but outside processing and on-call time, primary data are collected by rescue teams and, if necessary, further on-call monitors. Maybe there's been some confusion. I hope I understand the point of your question correctly. As I said, no one has come to me with such talk that tomorrow we are going to apply permanent on-call time to those in command. No, there's no plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U260	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U261	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned that this year the redundancies at the Rescue Board will lose 12 posts. What are these positions, and what does this mean in terms of restructuring work? The wave of redundancies in the public sector is known to continue. Do you even see the possibility that in the company of the Rescue Board, it will be possible to gather people from the central administration and possibly from the commandos? The redundancies in the public sector are known to continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U262	Thank you. How this will continue, this is what we are discussing in the Government of the Republic when discussing the country's budgetary strategy, and we will discuss staff issues more specifically in the autumn when it comes to putting the budget together. Which path we're going to take, I don't know what to say today. The Ministry of Finance will come to the government with proposals, and then we may be able to look more closely. As I said, it is very difficult for me to support or even discuss the position that the membership of the PB or the Rescue Board should be reduced further. In any case, this would mean going to the main function, it is certainly no longer room for the Rescue Board to cut down on the level of leadership or middle management. This change, which is currently underway in the Rescue Board, concerns a change in the level of middle-level management so that the drivers below can be given a little more opportunities, i.e. the leaders of the rescue centre. Today, the structure is such that the Head of the Emergency Response Centre is under the authority of the Crisis Management Office, the Prevention Office and two deputies, who are in turn under the authority of the Processors, the Engineering Office, the Fire Safety Office and the Rescue Areas. In the future, the so-called one interlayer will disappear and this scheme will be slightly similar to the PBS elik of the Director-General of the Rescue Board until there are three levels of command, so we'll take one level of management from there. This is what is happening now, but it is really very, very difficult to talk about contractions from now on, because then you have to go to the main function, you have to start reducing the number of rescuers working in commandos. On the board of the Rescue Board, if I remember correctly, I don't have that number at hand right now, in the last four to five years, there have been fewer than 100 middle- or top-level managers. There's a line somewhere on the level of leaders that can't go any further.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U263	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I want to ask you what really interests me. I'm interested in your opinion. The question concerns the issue of the rescuers, but not in this context, as we are currently discussing. I want to ask your opinion on a case that didn't take place very long ago. Namely, a few months ago, an experienced Rescue Board employee filmed a parade and added comments to that film. They were ironic, and at times they were probably not very pleasant, but it was still his opinion. Later he was released, although his career in this institution was very long, he was a very favorable savior. I want to know if this punishment was fair or overreacted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U265	Thank you for your question. If the person serving the country and the people of Estonia is in the performance of their duties, then of course he must follow all the ethical standards that apply to us. These comments were not only ironic. To be honest, I was rather sad to hear them. A savior who is at work must keep his eyes and ears open, and there will be no rescue event; he must assist and support people when necessary, but he will pick up his cell phone and start filming. In my opinion, these comments were inappropriate. Despite the fact that this person has been a savior for very long years, even though he has also received lifesaver medals, his behaviour was inappropriate and his comments on the Estonian state and our allies were not what we would like to hear from one of the commanders in the service of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U266	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There are 72 National Rescue Commands and 115 Voluntary Commands in Estonia with about 1,700 rescuers. As you yourself have said, and we must agree, voluntary rescuers are very important and do a very good job. But we're always reforming the Rescue Board, connecting structures, and increasing numbers of volunteer assignments. Where do you think there is such a reasonable or rational limit, or what is the reasonable relationship between volunteers and non-volunteers? Not all things can be done by volunteers in the same way as publicly paid rescuers. How far can we go and where can this border be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U268	Thank you for your question. You know, it's a very good question, it can be discussed for a long time. Arthur, I see he's gonna be here in a minute, and he's gonna be able to make his assessment. I know volunteers who want more rights because they can do more. Certainly, if we could better equip the voluntary rescuers nationally, and since we already have the first volunteers, who also have life-saving capabilities, why not? They give first aid on the ground, they get there first. If they have the skills, the knowledge and the sufficient team to go into the fire, for example, why not? The question is, in particular, that each rescuer, whether he is a professional or a voluntary rescuer, must consider two things: his own safety and safety to be rescued. I'm always ready to hold this debate. Last week, along with the volunteers' rescuers, we had some thoughts on how we could move forward with funding. For example, a voluntary sea rescue is clearly in a much worse position than rescue officers with a contractual relationship with the Rescue Board. If we have the capacity and the opportunity to give more support to volunteers, we could do so because I think they actually say inside that they can offer more. It is not a question of whether or not we are handing over some responsibilities to them. They do all of this out of their free will and for the good of the community. If the state or the municipality can support them, even if there are very many volunteers with spaces, there is a big problem that there is a car, but it is not possible to use it all year round, because it is not possible to renovate the hot space where the water is not frozen, then these opportunities must be used. For the first time in this year, the Leader measure has the idea that it is possible to apply for money for volunteering, although this has already been asked in the past. Similarly, we have agreed this year that we will provide the Rescue Board with additional funding to give volunteers who are going to ask for money from the Leader measure the opportunity to receive partial compensation to cover their own contribution, for example at least 50%. These measures are all designed to actually support volunteers. I believe Arthur supports me in the fact that volunteers themselves can do more. I wouldn't even like to say whether or not we are professionally handing over something to the volunteers, what one does and what the other does. No, it's cooperation. In some of the commandos, the volunteers are on duty with the professional staff. There they will have new experiences to pass on to their comrades, with whom they will develop volunteering somewhere small. We are looking for good opportunities, using our knowledge and skills to involve and motivate volunteers more. Volunteers certainly deserve it so that they can help their communities better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U269	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U270	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You know, if you look at the Riigikogu verbatim, let's say in recent years, it turns out that there aren't nearly any years when there have been no enquiries about the Rescue Board. It's like the Ministry of the Interior is a poor child who gets whipped every year. But in your first answers, you talked about the future of the Rescue Board being linked to long-term planning. You started talking about it still happening when the government sets up the budget for next year. Will this future still be two or three years for the Rescue Board, or will there be changes again when the next year, the 2017 budget comes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U271	Thank you. We're looking at both processes in parallel. One thing is, of course, next year, the possibilities of our budget and the so-called specific wallet that this hall will confirm. But the other side is that regardless of what the state budget is saying or what Parliament is finally proposing to us in the state budget, we are also looking at long-term sustainability. We can't get over it or around it. We have asked external experts to help us in trying to look further ahead, even to the point where the price of fuel will be in the coming years, how we can count on car depreciation and what the so-called wage pressure will be. We will also look at a more distant perspective to be a good partner, for example, in preparing a country's budget strategy to plan and provide the Ministry of Finance with adequate input on what needs will be in the rescue system in the coming years as well as elsewhere in internal security.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U272	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U273	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question concerns two aspects. First of all, what is the cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence in ensuring the safety of the population in view of crisis situations? Secondly, how does restructuring ensure that the ability of the Rescue Board to function is improved even in exceptional situations such as natural disasters, major fires and such things?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U274	Thank you for your question. First of all, working with the Defence Forces. Cooperation with the Defence Forces is, I'd say, very good. The last time we really needed to use defence forces was when a Polish plane couldn't stop in time and Ülemiste was driving. Only the armed forces had the ability to pull this plane out in the form of winch force. Thanks to the fact that the Estonian state is so small and that all leaders know each other, the defence forces managed to get a winch there very quickly and there were no disputes about who would bill them to. Came in and got the job done. The same way, of course, if necessary, we will cooperate. In the forest fires, we have been able to use the Defence Forces in addition to the Defence League. In this sense, cooperation and getting along are good, I dare say. In responding to crises, what is most important is our professional rescue system. As I said, we do not see the need now for us to reduce our commandos. We've increased certain capabilities. I'm going to expand your question a little bit. What could be the bottlenecks in crisis management? I would rather say that we will soon arrive at a stage where we must start to replace the bomb robots, because the time of the robots received as humanitarian aid is over, their lives are running out. In the same way, we could certainly increase our chemical capabilities. In order to monitor crisis preparedness, we organised a very large exercise last year, called Conex. We have played through a number of crisis situations in this exercise, and we have also identified which areas of cooperation in different areas of government are necessary to build capacity, so that we are prepared for all kinds of crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U275	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Artur Talvik, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U276	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! This autumn, 15 years will pass since such an event as 9/11 in New York. One thing that has been memorized by this unpleasant event is that the rescuers in America became true national heroes. It was the Saviors who, by sacrificing their lives, went into these decaying, burning houses, and quite a few were killed there. If we recall the last events that took place in Brussels and we recall the television picture, what did we see there, who was in it? The main bustlers in the middle of these riffles, this dust and all this horror were the saviors. The Saviors were the ones in it all. Today's world is, mildly put, relatively sick and part of this disease is the so-called hybrid war. The hybrid war means that the blast can come at any moment, unexpectedly, and we don't know where it comes from. The first to respond to such bangs are still rescuers, internal security. If, when we talk about external security or the military, we can say that we are a member of NATO and NATO is coming to our aid, then there is no one coming to our aid in terms of rescue and internal security, we must manage on our own. This is why I want to place Estonia in a special place, especially in terms of internal security. I dare make such a comparison that, when it comes to security as a whole, internal security is in comparison with the Defence Forces in relation to the orphan child. It is up to all of us that, when it comes to the balance between external security and internal security, the system should, in a word, be more inclined towards internal security than it is today. If we start thinking about a new budget, including the Defence Forces budget, then we could deal with the security budget as a whole, both in terms of internal security and external security. This is where we can also talk about increasing funding for the rescue system. I am talking specifically about increasing funding, because the calculations show that more EUR 10 million would be needed for a professional and voluntary rescue to operate in a sustainable manner and EUR 2 million for a voluntary rescue. When we talk about volunteers, these EUR 2 million do not mean that a volunteer should pay a salary, but that voluntary commitments should also be made to contribute as much as possible to a voluntary rescue, i.e. he must now spend his money on equipment, machinery and car storage facilities. This would be very necessary in order for the comprehensive rescue system to work in Estonia at all. Mr Vitsut said that we are taking on more volunteers, but it is not the case that we keep getting more and more. It's not very easy to do that. Today is rather a question of how we can maintain the motivation of volunteers, the motivation of those who are already busy in the system. I know, indeed, the Minister has the right to have volunteers ready to take on additional responsibilities, but not financial commitments, i.e. they are not ready to put more money in. I call on everyone to look together at security as a whole and at the rescue system as a very important part of it, precisely in today's world, and I call on you to think about its funding as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U277	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The tenth question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-04_U278	Good fellows! Now is the moment when we can all register for a free microphone after the hammer hit. So please! No calls, no free microphone. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 20:25 a.m.
