ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U2	Good afternoon, President of the Republic, President Arnold Rüütel, Riigikogu, Prime Minister, members of the government, constitutional officials, Excellencys and guests! I will open the IVth session of the XIII Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U3	Eiki Nestori, President of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of the Republic of Estonia! Mr President Rüütel! Respectable government of the Republic! Honourable ambassadors! All good people! Beautiful are the moments when the vast majority of people in society are concentrated behind one big and clear goal. But unfortunately, it happens very rarely. We haven't had that since 25 years ago when we were inquiring about freedom and being ourselves. Today's Europe, including Estonia, lives in very different times. And not only Europe, we see the same in the great powers of other continents. People are clearly divided into two. Some feel confident about this knowledge - filled globalisation. They understand what's happening, see what's happening, see what's going on, see what's going on, see what's going on, enjoy new experiences and opportunities. It can be said that an open and tolerant world is their natural home. But at the same time, there are many who feel uncomfortable in this new life. For example, because somewhere in the vastness of the earth, their jobs have been lost. Or someone dresses quite differently when we are accustomed, believes in another god, worships him in a completely incomprehensible way. It's all strange, unknown, and therefore dangerous and terrifying. And that's how you want to close and close again and believe that life can be turned back to where we came from. Social inequalities, together with feelings of exclusion, create uncertainty and blind anger. In a democratic society, of course, such fear will not remain without political expression. And if the forces that profit from it also create their own media space, where it is possible to listen only to the news that pleases us, we have divided society into two. But let us think for a moment whether we can close down in today's world and actually stop the movement of knowledge, cultures or investment. Do we really want to say to a friendly person or to an escaper to save our lives and the lives of our loved ones: no, you must not come here? After all, we know that people on this earth are still falling in love and having children, and they are not disturbed by their different skin color. One part of Europeans thinks that what is happening in the world is natural and takes life forward. The second part believes that all of this can be combated. So how do we find this compounding middleway here? To begin with, one could admit that these changes are inevitable and there is a common concern about how it would be more reasonable for all to get used to and cope with what is happening together. And no one must feel left behind in this new world, for abandonment and exclusion create defiance, unwarranted hatred for those who have succeeded in coping. Social inclusion is as important as fire safety in the fuel warehouse. We need to create a society where everyone has the opportunity to live a dignified life and earn a decent salary. Nor is it strange that these differences between European countries also reach the European Union as a community. This is not just a question of the British referendum. We also see this in the pessimistic attitude of many other Member States when it comes to cooperation. It is as if there were two movements in order to solve the conflict: 'More Brussels! ' and 'Less Brussels! ' '. Today, however, those who are in favour of close cooperation cannot deny the fact that the implementation of these ideas can ultimately lead to the opposite effect in the form of the departure of some Member States. On the contrary, even now, the Eurosceptic countries cannot deny the fact that membership of the Union and cooperation there have actually benefited these peoples. But is living with that knowledge enough to avoid the next exits? The British referendum is, in fact, a wake-up call for all of us, signaling that cooperation should be better. But the debate on the future must be open and understandable. Only in this way can it be avoided that the European Union is a conspiracy common to the European elite of some Member States. Against whom, it is beyond the understanding of one Democrat, but such a belief is very much present. The constitutions of the Member States do not state as a fundamental basis that the highest authority belongs to the people. True, in the old democracies, it is understandable to most people and not so much in the younger ones yet, but in the case of the European Union, its Highness, the same highest authority, wants to know how to influence and touch this Union. Does he know that today? I daresay. Honourable Riigikogu! The Berlin Wall as such is no longer real in this city. However, if you look at the security policy situation in the world, it is as if a new symbol is being sought to mark the contradiction between open and closed worlds. We have no reason to rejoice about this, but we do not have any opportunity to ignore it. We must not forget here for a moment that part of the territory of an independent Ukrainian state is still occupied by the armed forces of a neighbouring country. But perhaps 15 years after the attack of September 11, we were reminded once again that terrorism against an open world has not only come to us in the last two years. Not only in our constitution, but also in our soul, our desire for the perpetuity of Estonian nation, language and culture will be fulfilled if we have friends and allies. If this cooperation is torn away, it is not in Estonia's interest. If this cooperation can be improved, then it is our interest to do so and not to stand by in silence. Prime Minister! The Riigikogu looks forward to draft laws that are part of the plans for administrative reform. We want this reform to lead to greater opportunities for public authorities at local level. There is not much time left, but the Riigikogu needs time for both discussion and decision-making. Good luck! Honourable Riigikogu! Is it reasonable for judicial authorities to signal the need to adopt one law or another? If we know this in advance, why are we waiting? In my family life, the validity of the Cohabitation Act over the last nine months has not brought about any change. I believe a hundred comms can confirm the same. If we're still afraid of something, then what? After all, it is in our power to resolve a situation where, in the interests of children, the court has ruled, but the population register cannot comply with the judgment, because they do not, figuratively speaking, have such boxes. Once again, I call upon you to have a broader understanding of a happy person! On the hottest subject in Estonia, the Riigikogu wishes the electoral body success in the election of the new President of the Republic of Estonia. Unfortunately, this time too, one of the most controversial issues was the question of whether the current procedure for electing the President is the right one. My personal deep conviction is that this is the most inappropriate time for such a debate. Because if someone thinks the procedure for electing the President is wrong, and at the same time his candidate is elected, then the President will be not exactly the right person. Isn't that right? I would urge you that, from tomorrow's 12 days until the presidential election, this issue should be out of the question. But after that, everything can be discussed again, from direct selection to loss of office. Mr Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of the Republic of Estonia! Since the second term of office of President Lennart Meri, the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Riigikogu, became the custom that, according to the constitutional concepts of the parliamentary state, the President should express his thoughts to the Riigikogu at least once a year. This practice has now been maintained, and today you have this opportunity, as expected, for the last time. Thank you by the Riigikogu for these years! During these years, we have never had any doubt that the President really understands that he is balancing a parliament elected by the people. I understand it may have been difficult a few times. But you have been the president of our Constitutional provision and thought. We wish you luck, personal happiness, or simply in Estonian: thank you, Toomas! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U5	Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Allow me to correct you because I have another performance here in four weeks. So you haven't gotten rid of me yet. Respectable members of the Riigikogu! When I open your new year of work, I will start from where I arrived in this very honorable Chamber in April 2009 at the session dedicated to the 90th anniversary of the Constituent Assembly, calling for our parliamentaryism to be strengthened every day, because there is never too much responsibility and countrymanship. I recalled then that when Estonia has acted as a country and a nation in view of the ideals of representative democracy, we have done quite well. However, if Estonia has deviated from this path, we have done quite badly. This has been the case in the rest of the world. Democracy is a very bad story where Montesquieu's idea of separation of powers does not work, where there is a pseudo-parlament of the rubber stamp of executive power, where the judicial authority is the extension of the executive power and decides which historical events have taken place and which are not. Parliamentaryism, a pretty parliamentary order, albeit cumbersome, costly and slow for many, is the fairest and most reliable way for me to make laws and form a government that takes account of as many interests as possible. Of course, not all representatives of the people can and will not have to like them. Of course, for criticism, some of them themselves also give cause, be it promills, cost benefits or child support in general. But I still do not understand those who complain to the President of the Republic every year that he invites all members of the Riigikogu to the reception of our country's birthday. The Estonian Heads of State who restored independence have just invited visitors on 24 February, and I hope that the next president will continue this practice of emphasising parliamentary democracy and agree with me when I replaced the Royal Protocol, where the unelected foreign diplomats came to welcome the elected representatives of our country, instead of the Free State Protocol. We are a parliamentary state. While recognising Parliament as an institution and parliamentaryity as a principle, I am not reducing my well-founded insistence on the Riigikogu elected by the highest authority, because it is not the government that decides for Parliament, but the legislator that stands over the executive power. This is the content and nature of parliamentaryism. Just as we want the executive to explain its decisions and the independent judicial decisions to ordinary citizens, voters want to understand the choices made in Parliament. This is particularly important at the moment when, not only in Estonia, but also elsewhere in Europe and across the Atlantic, facts often do not count, are ignored or are used as arguments for lying. For me, this is part of the personal responsibility of a member of the Riigikogu. On the one hand, every push of your button in this Chamber, regardless of the color of the button, affects at least 1.3 million people outside the Chamber. On the other hand, your word, the explanation, should have the same role. You know what awaits the Riigikogu in the new year of work. The situation of the Health Insurance Fund and the sustainable provision of health care for our ageing society, the competitiveness of Estonian agriculture also during difficult times, economic recovery, coping with people, dispersal of the public sector into counties and leaving life in county centres, disputes around only four points of attraction, the future of administrative reform, the future of state reform in general, possible changes in tax policy and the design of excise rates to be taken into account in Estonia's immediate vicinity, integration of refugees, the integration of e-Estonia and fast internet connections to more people. It's a very long list of problems that we read every day in the paper. And in addition to all this, I believe that the most important issues are the foreign and security policy: the impact of Brexit and the future of the European Union, the continuing complex security picture of Europe, the ongoing migration crisis, the spread of populism. The list, of course, is not final. The parliament of Estonia, which belongs to the European Union and NATO, deals with everything that surrounds us and affects us both here at home and beyond. Figuratively speaking, everything on your desks is from the topics of the Presidency of the European Union to the limitations of the driving test opportunities in the county centres. This is the role of the parliamentary parliament, which is also characterised by reasonable cooperation between the government union and the opposition, as well as daily relations with the civil society. A strong and vocal civil society, where necessary, which pays attention to bottlenecks, will not replace Parliament, of course, but will be a support and a necessity in a functioning democracy for Parliament. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Two weeks ago, according to the Constitution, the next three rounds of election of the President of the Republic took place in Parliament, unfortunately without success. In less than two weeks, the electoral body will meet, and politicians and journalists are already discussing that the new president may not be elected there, and that everything will come back to the Riigikogu. I doubt that there would be a constitutional crisis in Estonia, but it would go against the meaning of the Constitution. The credibility of this concept, in its broadest sense, would also be weakened by the strength of the new Head of State's offer of start-up, as this move would give impetus to those who see dim matches and dark secret agreements everywhere in politics. However, I do not agree that the procedure for electing the President should fundamentally change. The mandate of the President of the Parliamentary State does not support his direct election. Then, without executive power, the President would have a direct mandate, but the executive power of the government would only have an indirect mandate. This almost always leads to unstable governance or, at least, serious competence problems. A person unknown to the public will not be elected President of Estonia. So it's also irrelevant to talk about when someone's candidacy is officially registered. The passionate debates of the candidates over the past few months merely confirm this. However, I invite you to consider whether the second round of the electoral council should not end in any event with the election of the Head of State, which would mean winning the candidate who received the most votes, rather than the current requirement that the candidate for whom the majority of the votes are cast be elected. This cannot be done without amending the Constitution, with the aim of significantly reducing possible games with blank or corrupt ballot papers. So far, four times in 1996, 2001, 2006 and 2011 the President of the Republic has been elected as provided for by the Constitution and by the thought. Those who have tried to use presidential elections as their own party or somebody's beauty contest have failed. The idea of the Estonian Constitution does not view presidential elections as a beauty contest or entertainment show with drawing competitions, but as a public agreement between political parties to choose the Head of State. I did not hide that I thought it was right to elect the next President of the Republic in the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, the necessary political agreement between the parties did not arise here. An agreement would be indispensable to the electoral body. We need an agreement in order to elect a president who has appropriate political support for the parliamentary state, who knows his own code of conduct under the Constitution and stands up for Estonia, both at home and in foreign relations, with his experience and understanding. The presidential candidates are generally known. I very much hope that we will see in the electoral body not to combine and overcomply, not to do so and to seek additional points for someone's rating, but to make a statesman's decision, we will see the responsible agreement of voters to choose the next President of the Republic on 24 September. And this choice is definitely the right one. Thank you for your attention. Unfortunately, or from your point of view, this is the last time I will be present at Parliament's opening session. All these times I have been very pleasant, thought-provoking, and I am grateful for this opportunity. Good luck! [[Let's hear it in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U7	Thank you, President of the Republic of Estonia Toomas Hendrik Ilves!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U9	Andres Lemba and Anli Eha's song "The Story of My Roots" was presented to you by the subsequent growth of the male singers of the Estonian National Opera. Thank you, Estonian Boy Choir and Hirvo Surva! [[Let's hear it.]] It didn't take long for you to hand over any drafts or inquiries. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U10	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching ten draft laws today. First, the Act on Insurance Activities and related amendments to other laws. Secondly, the draft law amending the VAT Act. Thirdly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion and related protocol. In the Riigikogu, Sven Sester, the Minister of Finance, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above three draft laws. Fourthly, the draft law amending the law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs and state fees. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski represents the Government of the Republic when dealing with the bill. Fifthly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. Sixth, the draft law amending the law on bailiffs and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with these two draft laws. Seventhly, the draft law amending the Traffic Act, the State Tax Act and the Product Compliance Act. Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu. Eightth, the draft law amending the organic farming law. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Ninthly, the draft Act approving the Protocol on the Accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty. 10th draft Act ratifying the Treaty on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the proceedings of the two draft laws mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U11	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U12	Good Riigikogu, successful new season! XIII cannot be satisfied with the adoption and content of the Administrative Reform Act. That is why we are submitting an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas regarding difficulties in implementing the Administrative Reform Act. In fact, the National Reform Radar College gave the current government a 'two' grade. The biggest problem was that there is no governance of state reform. The Minister of Administration has achieved his level, but we do not have comprehensive political decisions to take us forward. There is also a slight disappointment among the local government leaders that we have remained in place. The Riigikogu has agreed to only shift the boundaries of the local government, not to have reached discussions on the revenue base and tasks. That is why we are proposing again to the Prime Minister to consider and consider whether the Prime Minister should not play a greater role in the implementation of administrative reform, including state reform. The Free Party proposed this at the coalition negotiating table in 2015, but it did not find support at that time. Of course, we would also like to know why there have been sudden differences in funding. One example is Saaremaa and Hiiumaa if they formed one large county-based municipality. Where did this difference come from, why the same approach is not applied in other counties and, at all, what happens to our administrative reform and state reform, according to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U13	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Centre Party initiates the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which proposes to the Government of the Republic to grant transitional support to farmers from the state budget in the years 2017 to 2020 at the maximum rate allowed by the European Union. As you know, in recent years, our farmers have been struck by one blow after another. African swine fever in Estonia has been spreading for a long time and the plague cannot be contained in any way. On the contrary, the plague continues to take on new lands and the third zone is growing, which is why pig farmers have to give up pig meat almost otherwise. The price of milk has also been at a very low level for a long time, and the farms are no longer able to make ends meet. You saw that there are 10,000 bottles of milk in front of the Riigikogu today, which proves the state of crazy things. We are already very close to bringing 30,000 dairy cows to the slaughterhouse instead of 10,000 cows. You remember, ten years and a little bit more ago there was a situation like this. I believe that we do not want this to happen again in agriculture. All of this has, to a large extent, called into question Estonia's food security. The Estonian farmer must be treated in the same way as other farmers in the European Union, and we should pay all the subsidies that can be paid from the Estonian state budget. It is our duty, as members of the Riigikogu, to ensure that the Government of the Republic complies with the law and pays farmers transitional support and that domestic food is available. Let us support Estonian farmers, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U15	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, everyone. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I will hand over a draft amending the Riigikogu's decision to set up a special committee for the supervision of security authorities. Indeed, our group wants Peep Aru Martin Kuk to be appointed as a member of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U17	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U18	Honourable Chairman! Against the background of the great confusion that has hit foreign policy, we are in the meantime proposing one such amendment to the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, in the following form: Article 18 (1) (1) of the Act replaces the words 'Commission for European Union Affairs' with 'Commission for the Affairs of the European Union and the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland' and, in future, make the same changes to the text as necessary. In the future, after two or three years, it could still be extended and the title 'Commission of the European Union and the countries that have left it' could be used. Right now, that would be premature. The idea came out by the German Chancellor, Mrs Angela Merkel, and this was emphasised by Foreign Minister John Kerry, who said the sentence: 'The British part of the European Union has not decreased, but it has changed. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U19	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U20	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, A successful and joyful year of work! It is my pleasure and honour to question the Minister of State, Arto Aasa, on behalf of eight members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The inquiry concerns a large and voluminous analysis of the country's tasks, more than 600 pages long, completed in May this year. Unfortunately, the word 'culture' appears very little in this large and voluminous document. In both broad and narrower terms, culture is a bit discussed only in the case of rural governments, it also gives an overview of the activities and institutions of the Ministry of Culture, but does not give meaning to the real value and importance of our culture. We are going to ask six questions to the Minister and ask why the main focus is on the museum sector, because it is also said that museums are doing very well. Why has the network of public libraries not been analysed and how much is it now trying to centralise the entire network of cultural institutions? I'm happy to pass on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U21	Dear Riigikogu, I have adopted two enquiries and draft laws 13. People's ambassador Gräzin left, but I would ask the leaders of his group to pass on to him that he turn to our office on the draft. He could talk to some lawyers, you'd be better off with the bill. So a total of 13 draft laws and two enquiries have been adopted, and we will deal with them in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Requesting presence check! 78 members of the Riigikogu are currently present in the plenary session, no 23. Adoption of the agenda. Attention! With regard to the holiday of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljuranna, the Government of the Republic has requested that the first item on the agenda of this working week be removed from the agenda of today's sitting, this is an inquiry into the non-permanent membership of the United Nations Security Council of Estonia in 2020. With this clarification, honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the first working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 78, no one opposed, with one abstention. The agenda for the first working week of the IV session of the Riigikogu is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U22	Now you're asking questions. First of all, Members of the Riigikogu Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Anneli Oti, Erki Savisaare, Olga Ivanova, Rein Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Oudekki Loone, Märt Sultsi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Kadri Simson, Mailis Repsi, Peeter Ernitsa and Siret Kotka. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U23	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great honour and ultimate pleasure to find that this season I have proved to be the person who will open a round of inquiries. I am far from the idea that I have turned out to be elected because of my personal qualities, but it is still an important question. Estonia has always been in its geographical location since the dim of time at the intersection of historically important and painful events. Therefore, our defence ability is not only a theoretical or formal question, but God save it! This may prove to be vital. In this regard, I and 16 members of the Central Party Group are concerned about the health status of our defence personnel. In particular, less than one third, or 31.4%, of the young people who went to the Medical Commission of the Defence Resources Board proved eligible last year. And of those who were recognized as fit, about a fifth of them were sent home after they had served for some time because they failed to do so. So the question is what's going on. Is there too strict conditions, or is there something happening to our youth that he is about to perish? How is it possible that two thirds of our young people do not understand one foot or can't lift a gun from the ground? In any case, the questions are up and we have the Minister of Defence, and our current Minister of Defence is probably better than any previous Minister of Defence who has never even been in the military. I believe that the present Minister of Defence can answer these three questions that we have asked. First of all, why are our young people not meeting the requirements? Secondly, what was the health status of young professionals five years ago, and how has it changed in five years? We can draw conclusions from the response on the overall trend. And finally, what has the Ministry done and what is it going to do to make sure that the majority of our young people can pass through this temperament school, which inevitably, and quite naturally, is the Defence Forces, because it not only strengthens the person but also constitutes the place of patriotic education? We can talk about gender equality here or not, but a man can still be a man if he can sleep in a tent with other men, can shoot a gun, can stand up for himself, can take into account that his shoulder to shoulder and his backs are other men who, for the same purposes and with similar preparation, are always willing to come out to protect women and children in order to protect the freedom of their homeland and ensure our future, so that our people, our culture, our language, and we can live on this land, which, unfortunately, will continue to be the NATO border and the borders of the European Union. This life is not safe here, and there is no sense of safety for our mothers and fathers, and for grandmothers and grandmaes, when their sons and grandsons cannot shoot guns, they cannot protect themselves and their families. How could they still protect the country where we want to live and where we want to live? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U24	Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U25	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! My warmest regards for the start of the new political season! And it is a great honour to be here to answer the first question of the new session. This week, however, I will have a few days to complete this job. Of course, we have before us many difficult and difficult tasks in defence matters, as the previous speaker pointed out when he brought the very vital figures. Military service is, of course, one of the main components on the basis of which we build an army built on our reserve, and therefore, the health of young people is undoubtedly extremely important both in the social sense and in the plan of the Defence Forces. But first, a little bit of statistics. In fact, it is not quite clear that the health status of two thirds of professionals does not allow them to take up their duties. In particular, the Medical Board of the Defence Resources Board can take three possible decisions. Firstly, that the subject meets the established health requirements and is assigned to military service. Indeed, these decisions were taken by the Medical Commissions of the Defence Resources Board last year for about one third of the professionals. If the subject does not meet the current health requirements, the decision will be taken and 29% of the students were taken last year. But most decisions were made that the subject temporarily did not meet the health requirements. In such a case, good members of the Riigikogu will be given an extension to improve their health and they will be invited to the committee again until a decision can be made at one point on whether the subject meets or does not meet the health requirements. Such decisions are, in fact, made the most. Last year, for example, such decisions represented around 40% of the total cases decided. I also need to make it clear that about a third of these temporarily unfit ones will, however, be recognised as meeting health standards later. As far as the main diagnosis groups are concerned, the reason why most professionals are excluded is mental and behavioural disorders and musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders. The second question was how the situation has changed over the last five years. No significant changes have actually taken place. The ratio of serviceable, ineligible and temporarily ineligible has remained the same as that of the main diagnosis groups for non-eligible diagnosis, which I have just mentioned. In fact, in the light of the above, I would like to disprove a common misconception that tends to emerge from the statistics of medical committees. This concept also echoes this same understanding here, and this notion is that it is as if the young people of Estonia are in some way particularly ill. In fact, young people in Estonia are not particularly ill; they are certainly not sicker than Finnish youths, for example, of whom 75% are taken into military service. Rather, it is a question of our health requirements for young people to take up military service. These requirements are quite stringent in Estonia. So the question is rather whether their medical condition meets the demands of our military service. On the one hand, such strict medical requirements are justified. We do not prepare conscripts for cranberry or mushrooms; we prepare them for the protection of the country and the war of today. I gave an example of Finland here earlier. In Finland, emphasis has been placed not only on the preparation of people for military defence, but also on the motivation for people to go through the protection service on a philosophical basis is therefore somewhat different. In our case, this means that the average conscript must be able to run quickly and with heavy equipment, crawl, cross long distances, wear not only an automatic, but also, for example, a machine gun weighing over 10 kilos or a anti-tank grenade launcher with ammunition and so on. I have also passed a full soldier test with our athletes from the Communications Battalion, and I say this is a pretty tough thing. It lasts more than 20 hours, 36 kilos on its back, 20 degree cold and deep snowfalls, 4:00 a.m. is the beginning and practically takes 24 hours until the entire test is completed. In the meantime, you have to hide, then engage in battle and perform all kinds of tasks. Yeah, after three or four months of this so-called SBK, or basic soldier training, it's a pretty serious physical challenge. And what I saw was, I'd say, very impressive. But the theme setting as such is right. These health requirements were reviewed in 2013 and perhaps the current requirements are too stringent. In the sense that not all the necessary positions in today's war require, for example, heavy hardships or long distances on foot. There are many positions where mental endurance or mathematical thinking or computer handling skills are equally important. If we move, with our Defence Forces, in such a technological food chain towards the introduction of increasingly high technology, then there is really reason to take a more flexible approach to health requirements. Right now, we're measuring the subjects with one standard. And the young people of Estonia are not really very sick. This is also confirmed by statistics collected by independent, civil health professionals. In addition, you may also see on the street that people are generally walking on two legs. According to a study of the health behaviour of the Estonian adult population carried out by the Institute for Health Development, 29% of the age group we were interested in, i.e. young men aged 16 to 27 years, had a long-term illness or health problem. According to this study, health problems are basically the same as I have already mentioned: they are related to joint diseases, traumas, spinal diseases and depression, as well as increased blood pressure, overweight and obesity. Such general health statistics show that a more serious health problem can occur not in 60%, but rather in 30% of young men. This statistics we collect basically corresponds to other health statistics. Of course, our system is structured in such a way that we deal with the contingent of professionals that society gives us. I was born 40 days ago, and he has nothing to do with defense until he's so old he's become a pro. But what I want to say is that we have to deal with this product or with this material, in a social sense, with the material that society is giving us. We have started a more detailed analysis of the work of the medical committees with the Defence Resources Board in order to understand how the health status of young people in one region or another in Estonia differs and what are the reasons for this. Looking at statistics, we see very different rates of dismissal in different places. This is certainly one big question as to why somewhere 70 or 80% can be assigned to the service, while on the other hand 30% can be assigned to the service. We have to see what's behind all this. Last year, the Riigikogu passed a very wise law, which we ourselves wrote that, from the new year, medical committees will, of course, get access to the e-health information system with the consent of the entire state. This will help our medical committees to make better and more informed decisions and also provide a long-term overview, not just a snapshot of the current state of the young person. We're gonna see his whole medical history. This will achieve two or three things at a time. First of all, we are saving a huge amount of taxpayers' money. We are currently fading 13000 people, and the price of one person is just under 200 euros. There is also an opportunity to reduce people's running. If they make this little bird that they agree that their data will be transmitted, then everything will be a lot easier. Perhaps some young people have no reason to invite the Commission, perhaps in some cases the question arises that you have been healthy your whole life, so why does your knee hurt now? This is a very important innovation and will enter into force from the new year. Thank you to the Riigikogu for taking it wisely! But the loss of military service is a problem. We have come to the conclusion from our studies that, in fact, in the service of conscripts, physical activity is not reduced to about 20% of them. Apparently, there are reasons somewhere else. A completely different environment, a change in everyday habits, will certainly work. People are literally going to live in a tent, wake up early in the morning, then eat and go to the bathroom. There are some such reasons, in my opinion, too, that there are no direct health or physical problems involved. There may be other problems. I certainly intend to pay close attention to this issue. There is a 10-year development plan underway and one of the things that we must definitely analyse is whether our Defence Forces are optimal in ten years' perspective. Maybe not, maybe we should make it bigger. If our need for reservists remains the same, then the relevant percentage will actually start to rise in the future. Just the number of residents, as well as the number of potential candidates, is decreasing, and if we decide to move in a different direction, i.e. to increase the number of conscripts, then, of course, their share of the population will increase. As regards this flexibility, which I have already talked about, this is what we are currently discussing very seriously in the framework of the ten-year development plan. At one point, of course, all these discussions will also reach this Riigikogu. So we need to focus on the best possible integration on these issues. However, I say, just in case, that the conscription of all young men of a certain age group should not be an end in itself. We have the optimal Defence Forces in our budget. Of course, we have to make a choice whether we are simply creating units that go into the forest with a machine gun, or whether we are contributing, for example, to the creation of armoured maneuvering. Both at once, we can't have everything. These are the choices and we must make them militaryly well from a rational point of view. The units we have need to be assembled, and so far we have been able to. Yeah, there have been dropouts, but actually, we're taking young men into military service with a certain margin to avoid this problem. So the questions that have been raised here are all legitimate. But I wouldn't paint a black, dark picture. This process is dynamic and we will continue to adapt to the requirements of time, just like all other areas. Nothing is finally ready; we must be flexible so that our national defence is the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U26	Questions for the Minister. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U27	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you for your thorough answers. A comparison of the ear to Finland was left: that we have stricter reception conditions and that Finns go into the Defence Forces quite more than Estonians. But there's another side to this. It is an agreement on the limits of the conditions under which men are recruited and for which reasons they are not. How much will fall out in Finland afterwards is very important. We have more or less that percentage. Maybe it's like the Finns are going to fall out more than we do here in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U28	I don't know the exact Finnish statistics. As far as I know, they've built the system in such a way that it doesn't fall out too much. The goal is, however, that people who have been conscripted can end it. But I know that if a decision of a medical committee is needed in Estonia, so that a conscript who has complaints can leave, then in Finland, the commander of a unit can decide if a conscript does not want to serve for any reason. They have less bureaucracy on this issue. But, as I said, we have an honest philosophically completely different understanding in this area. Let us suppose, speculate or theorize that we are conscripting 80% or 90% of the professionals. This requires additional infrastructure, we must have barracks, food, training and all the necessary equipment and instructors. For a hundred conscripts, I'll say eight or nine instructors by heart. In that case, we should increase our Defence Forces in this sense, but our military capabilities are suffering because we are spending the available limited resources simply on training. Such a balance is obviously different in each country, but of course we always look at what other countries are doing. It is not necessarily necessary to invent a bicycle on its own, and in this sense what is happening in neighbouring countries is important. We have always continued to create a time-based reserve. As we know, in the meantime, many of our neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania, for example, decided to abandon it, as well as Sweden, and now Lithuania has restored military service, while Sweden has chosen a certain hybrid solution. We have always been on the right track in this sense. I know that in Latvia, too, this is being discussed again. But our system has justified itself. When we talk about the entire contingent that we could use in wartime, about 21000 people in such a small country are very good. We have actually tried this system and we know that it is actually a functioning system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U29	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U30	Thank you, manager. Good Secretary of Defense! If 26% of our boys are unfit for active service due to mental and behavioural disorders, does this reflect the entire society? In the Ministry of Defence, or here in the Riigikogu or in other institutions, for example, are 26% of the staff with mental and behavioural disorders, or is it only the company of young boys? Or is it that, at a later age, this percentage increases, which makes sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U31	I don't think it would be appropriate for me to describe the Riigikogu in this sense. The Department of Defense hasn't done that kind of analysis either, as far as I know. But I believe that the sieve that people have to go through in competitions to get a job is very intense. Recently, at least 20 people often apply for one job, and this already shows that at any level they have previously passed a very dense sieve and have previous work experience. And no 16 / 27. between 18 years of age, people do not only have mental problems, they may also have other illnesses. If you rename it, you really have mental and behavioural disorders, but also musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders. I'm not a doctor, but I can assure you that this 26% definitely doesn't have one diagnosis. These are statistics on how things are in our society in some areas. As a non-medic, it is certainly not my competence to judge the decisions of the committees as right or wrong. You have to trust people who do their jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U32	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U33	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr Minister, Mr Ernitsa's question was quite interesting. Before you, there were two defense ministers who didn't serve in the military. You've been there. So the principle of one third probably applies even to the highest echelon. But my question is different. You claim that military service is extremely difficult, you have to walk ten kilometers, ten kilos on a machine gun, and spend the night in a tent. But young men can do a lot more by going to another village to the simman, two six-packs in their backpacks, which have not much less impact than a machine gun, and staying in Rabarock's tent. There's no problem! What will change suddenly, however, when they go to the Medical Commission of the Defence Resources Board, where it turns out they can't go far, they can't stay in the tent and they can't lift the weights?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U34	I'm trying to figure out a question here somewhere. I agree that there are people who are more interested in military service and contributions to national defence than some others. Youth is youth! And as I said, in fact, when we look at who goes into service and whose service is postponed, it cannot be said that all young people in Estonia are sick. I think the Rabarocks and the village champions are certainly very physically debilitating, but they also have a positive effect on human health and all behavior. This is the so-called material that we are dealing with, and we have so far found an effective balance that meets our needs. As I have explained, our goal cannot be to enlist 100% of young people of a certain age group in the military service.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U35	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U36	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The fact that young people fall out of the service is actually a consequence. Several studies have shown that schools are no longer able to provide adequate physical education, to provide a strong physical base for the next life. When I look at paragraph 6.29 of the Government's Action Plan, it is very clear that the aim is to gradually transform national defence into a core curriculum at upper secondary school level. How far have you come with this? There is also the idea that the 2% that we spend on defence could separate something from the 2% that we spend on defence in schools for national defence. This, in my opinion, also concerns physical readiness. How far have you come with this? Perhaps this would be a step to help us cope with this problem more easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U37	Thank you. A very legitimate and sensible question. It's a pretty new project, this defense school. This is what we finance from the Ministry of Defence budget, even though military defence is not the only security issue. There are also a lot of issues in the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs concerning internal security. We're actually already doing this job. When we look at the relevant figures and study plans, we see that we are covering a very significant part of the administration of other ministries with our own resources. And it's okay. The fact that young people want to learn national defence is very welcome. I don't know the numbers by heart, but at present not all Estonian schools are taught national defence. However, our clear direction is that it must be possible for every school that wants to learn it. That's the way I know it now. We're expanding it, but training teachers is a pretty long-term process. We can't do snaps overnight, and tomorrow some new class starts somewhere. All of this requires work, and we have done so over the years. It is also very welcome that at least half of the participants in the national defence course are young ladies. So the social landscape, the willingness of young people to be familiar with these issues, is wider. There is also the possibility to volunteer for certain military training, to go to camps, etc. However, as a great patriot in my administration, I would still draw a line down somewhere. If we start spending DOD money in kindergarten or primary school, we may not be able to build national defence in technical terms. A reasonable balance still needs to be found. Once again, we actually have it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U38	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. To continue with the previous question, I will also refer to the school. Has the Minister of Education been consulted on the need to take measures to restore physical culture to honor? I mean sports schools and all that. Decades ago, sport in school was quite different than it is today, including physical education classes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U40	Thank you! A good physical form is certainly a prerequisite for a healthy, productive and normal life at all. Sport made at a young age is undoubtedly extremely important here there can be no dual thinking. The coordination of these curricula will certainly also take place. As for raising the honor of physical education, yes, the areas that people deal with have changed. Today, young people see very well-developed thumbs that can use some gadgets. This is not necessarily bad, but it is true that they need more physical burdens from kindergarten onwards. Kindergarten teachers say that children used to hang on all kinds of climbing trees, but now they can't hang. That's how it is in kindergarten. Where does it all start? Well, society is changing, urbanization is taking place. We all know that Tallinn somehow attracts people to the capital all the time. A lot of people live in the capital. There were three hundred thousand people before, now it's over four hundred thousand. Here, however, people's access to nature, forest and opportunities to spend time in the open air is considerably smaller than on land. Society is changing and the Defence Forces are changing, including the physical assumptions required there. However, these are certainly things that we have to deal with and that need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U41	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U42	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! After all, those young people who are being examined by the Defence Medical Commission will be physically trained long before they have to pick up a weapon. But if we see where our kids can play sports these days, it's not a good picture. Sports clubs are all very expensive, not everyone can handle it. We're building state gymnasiums, but I haven't seen a sports field in a new state gymnasium. Practically local authorities deliver at school. Colleagues were talking about national defence teaching here, but it turns out that the state is somehow standing away from the physical training of the state defender. He just has to come from somewhere and pick up his gun. Did something go wrong with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U43	It is difficult for me to assess what the health status of professionals was almost twenty years ago, whether it was better or worse. As I said in answering your questions, there have been no changes in the last five years. When we look at our neighbouring countries, we see that there is really no anomaly. Young people in Estonia are as healthy or sick as young people in our neighbouring countries. The general attention to physique and all of this is understandable, but I think it is important that we have a functional Defence Forces. I'd say the Defence Forces are still functional, performing the tasks assigned to them. Our goal can only be that. The better the so-called material that comes into us, the better, of course. But when you carefully watched the last Olympic Games, you know that three of our four medal winners are members of the Defence Forces. This is not a legal obligation, but it is precisely because we have really good wrestlers, rowers, archers that we have many people on the payroll in the Defence Forces. We want to promote these values. I repeat, this is not our duty under the law, this is our mission. I believe that, in this regard, we will do much more than some other institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U44	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Can't the question be that some of the requirements for professionals are too high? Perhaps by differentiating the requirements, we can somehow improve things? And second of all, I have a question, isn't it often a matter of attitude? I just don't know what we're in military service for. In this sense, there may be a great deal of work to be done in the field of national defence education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U46	Thank you! Flexibility, I think, is the key issue in looking to the future. If we also discuss the next ten-year development plan of the Defence Forces with the Riigikogu, we will definitely set new goals for ourselves. In particular, this concerns two things: both the size of our military and the technology that must be guaranteed in ten years' time. I think it is quite key that we must have been able to remove all measurements by a single measure. A more personalised, individualised approach must be adopted, a system must allow for a certain degree of flexibility. In this sense, I believe there is no disagreement. We need to adapt to technological developments, we need to adapt to new challenges and the world around us. So I agree that we need to be more flexible in the future. We've been over this with the military leadership.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U47	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The poor health of our young men in military service is well - known. In addition to not going there for health reasons, some young people do not go to the ministry because of their faith or conviction, it simply does not allow them to go under a gun. These young men, or girls, will be sent for replacement service. My question is, in what cases are the young people assigned to the substitute service and how many are there? Do you think that replacement services should be used more so that young people who would otherwise be excluded can also contribute to the promotion of areas of importance to society?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U49	Thank you! When we are talking about military defence, it is, of course, my job to be responsible for building up a capable military defence force. We have a very reasonable right under the law to those people who, for the reasons you have mentioned, do not want or cannot enter the Defence Forces. They have been offered an alternative. This possibility is not widely used in Estonia, but I do not have statistics available every year, there are dozens of people who go to substitute services. Of course, no reasonable person can have anything against that. At the same time, there are interesting nuances here, such as the fact that we have to pay the minimum wage and additional taxes for these people from the defence budget. This puts them in a very different situation from other conscripts. In fact, how I say it, our defence budget is being used as a social service. If we ask the institution to whom we offer a substitute employee, if they are interested in a certain person, they say yes, we are, but if we ask if they are interested in hiring this person, then they are not. That's the kind of little paradox in this whole system. In fact, the more people there are in the substitute service, the more we need to allocate resources to cover these costs in the institutions where they work. From some point of view, it becomes irrational from the point of view of the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U50	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, There was already a question about national defence teaching in schools here, and you said that it is now impossible to introduce it into all schools, also because there are no teachers. Really, the National Defence Academy can't prepare specialists. But have you, in principle, discussed and negotiated with the Ministry of Education and Research that national defence, which is, on the one hand, the beginning of physical training and, on the other hand, the role of patriotic education, could eventually become a compulsory subject? If so, when can it be orientately realized?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U52	Thank you! In fact, we train people for national defence education not at the National Defence Academy, but we have volunteers in all regions. I have personally attended a number of such events and have seen a series of familiar faces from Saaremaa, who can be teachers at a vocational school or in some upper secondary school. Many teachers are allies of defence, and they can also be active troops. The education of these people may be very different, but we will train them to a certain level in this area. They also receive a diploma that they have completed these courses and meet the requirements. As far as the compulsory nature of this learning is concerned, it is a very philosophical question. Right now, we've approached that if any schools are interested, they can do it. If we make it compulsory, you can always ask what is not done because of it. Young people's time is limited, just like all of us. If you're gonna do something new, you're gonna have to ask me what less you're gonna do. Our first goal should be that everyone who wants to study national defence in the upper secondary school in the Republic of Estonia must be able to do so. Right now, we can guarantee that. On the issue of compulsoryity, I would rather have a moderate view. I do not think that making it compulsory should be hasty, perhaps the reaction of young people to this would be the opposite of what is desired. First of all, we are working to ensure that we have enough people to deal with it and that they are competent enough. We will learn from what we have already done and we will take these decisions in the future if we already have information from many years, what it gives us, what the challenges are and what the solutions are.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U53	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U54	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! The problem is serious and I think it should be addressed. Is there a study that has been carried out that is the reason that our young people are in such poor health? If such a study has not been carried out, it would certainly have to be done. It needs to be dealt with in depth either by increasing the number of gymnasium and comprehensive school-level physical education classes or by doing something else. If we don't get to that cause and we don't deal with the problem, it's gonna get worse. Has anyone studied this real reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U55	Thank you. As I have said many times and say again, to make it clear: our young people's health is not exceptionally poor, it is quite normal. In neighbouring countries, these figures are the same. Various studies have been carried out in Estonia, which I have already mentioned. Our medical committees do these things, and this is how long-term statistics gather. From next year we will be able to use eHealth data and this will create a completely new dimension. We have health records for all of the professionals all along the way, and it's very good if they want to share them with us. We cannot make this mandatory for reasons of privacy according to the laws of the Republic of Estonia. But I read the research data from the Institute for Health Development here. These studies have still been carried out, and I assure you that the health of our young people is entirely normal. Let's look east, look west as far as I know, Estonian youth is neither sicker nor healthier than anything else, they are completely normal. That's what life is like.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U56	Thank you, Minister, for your very thorough answers. If the ambassador Peter Ernits were in the Chamber, I would be pleased to inform him that § 140 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure allows only one question to be asked in the event of an inquiry and therefore he does not have to ask the other. But since he's not in the hall, we'll take his name off for both reasons. I'm opening negotiations. Envoy Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U57	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister for Defence and ladies and gentlemen. It was very refreshing to hear great rhetoric. The Minister of Defence was able to manipulate numbers with military or military cunning: one-third, two-thirds... It argued that in fact it was not the case that two thirds are ineligible and one third is eligible, that one third is temporarily ineligible and one third is unusable. Those temporarily unfit will return to the Commission, only two thirds of them will still be unfit. So it's like a holy Trinity with three, but eventually one. But let it be what it's like. Do you have to be so strict that they do not allow two thirds of young people to join the Defence Forces? I would argue that at one time during the consultative period the conditions were much more difficult than they are: three years were earned, for example, Kazakhstan was sent and all seven days were earned a week. But now it's five days, they're going home for a vacation, and that's how it's gonna hold. However, one thing Mr. Secretary of Defense caught the nail on the head, either deliberately or by missing the mark, is that there are unfortunately young people who are not interested in fulfilling their duty. Mr. Secretary of Defense has rightly pointed out that the Defence Forces are dealing with the material that society is giving him. Here we conclude that something is lacking in this society. It is not a medical problem if some part of the two-thirds not passed through the Commission are people who do not want to serve in the Defence Forces, whether they want to hold on to their skirts, or whether they do not respect their country, their history, their people and their language, or the ghost knows what they have. The so-called material that doesn't end up in the Defence Forces should work. I have to say here, of course, that it is not directly the task of the Defence Forces or the Department of Defense. However, it is up to the Ministry of Defence to initiate some relevant activities. Once, when I was a young person right now, I've already been cut off from all reserves, fortunately or unfortunately, we had this kind of thing like the VTK. There were standards of the VTK. You might say it's a communist relic, but it was an honor to make a good run of 100 meters, a long jump, a bullet strike, and everything there was. Whoever couldn't handle the boys didn't have any respect for the other boys, and his life was made difficult. Everyone was trying to do it. Yes, it can be said that it is a communist obsolescence, but the Russian abbreviation is, of course, very different in Russia. It's a good thing anyway. By the way, both in Russia and in the face of socialism, there were many things that were not at all bad, whether it be the tax administration, whether it be a traffic mile or a traffic police, strict traffic regulations. So there are practical things to do and they should not be overlooked. And while young people are involved in patriotic and physical education on that side of the border, this side of the border between NATO and the European Union should also deal with this very carefully. So far, we've been doing this so that if there are ten missiles on that side, there should be ten missiles on this side. If there's a HQ, there's gotta be a HQ. There's gotta be some balance, right? So I believe the Department of Defense has room for improvement. It is in this area that the Ministry of Defence should initiate some kind of discussion, perhaps even a development plan or something like that. But something must be done to ensure that we have a proper health contingent at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U58	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U59	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, though in his own way, raised a very important question concerning the state of health of our young people, and I think that not only of those who are qualified, but of all young people, girls and boys. I also think that the claims made here to the Minister for Defence that we have such a poor contingent as a whole are not quite fair. It's like he's responsible for the poor health of young people. This is a national issue and needs to be resolved on a much wider scale, as it is a societal problem. If you want the facts, I can read some to you. For example, the health of professionals in 2015 is simply to illustrate the situation. 12,000 young men attended the medical commission, and 3200 of them were invited to serve. Of this 12,000, 31.4% met the health requirements of the Defence Forces, 39.6% temporarily did not meet the health requirements of the Defence Forces and 29% did not meet them at all. This clearly shows that we have no major achievements in improving the health of young people. There are certain reasons for this. I would block them into three categories. First of all, the wrong diet: all kinds of burgers, all kinds of chemistry you drink every day. I told you once about the case when I was the Commander of the Defence Forces. There was a conscription, and we had a company in the Navy where we wanted to train the Marines. During the base course of the soldier, many young people experienced fractures at first on one, then on six, seven, fourteen, and sixteen. We started to find out what this was all about. We called the doctors and it turned out that the bones couldn't bear the weight of a soldier because there wasn't enough calcium in the bones. It turned out that these youths never drank milk, never ate dairy products. We started giving them calcium pills. This is just one example, but this problem is very widespread, because what young people are eating and drinking now is not a decent food. I'm also fighting my kids about it. Secondly, an unhealthy way of life: I have seen a lot of young people smoking, alcohol, drugs, etc. Thirdly, the lack of physical culture and sport as a system. Hence the weak physique as a whole. You have to start with physical culture in kindergarten, even in a nursery, maybe. It has to be a system, but we don't have it. The problem continues in schools: two hours of exercise a week, that's absurd! Indeed, during the Soviet Union, as my colleague Vassilyev mentioned, there were sports schools. And at each school, the child was either voluntarily or forced to pursue an area that pleased him. Now there's nothing like this, everyone volunteers. We need to find an incentive. This is not only the property of the Ministry of Defence, because the Ministry of Defence needs only one particular category of persons, i.e. those who are qualified and active. Nobody else does. We take this contingent, which stands at 12000 to 13000 every year. At present, only 3,200-3,300 are involved, who go into military service, and no one deals with the rest. That's why we're going to have to rack our brains really hard here. This is not just a matter for the Ministry of Defence; it is also a matter for the Ministry of Education and Research and perhaps other ministries. Obviously, some sort of health strategy or long-term programme should also be developed, I do not know, which should involve all the ministries involved in any way. Without it, young people's health will not improve. As far as the Finns are concerned, they have 80 to 82% of the population of professionals to be recruited, but they have very low health standards. We too should think about what to do. The health requirements of the Defence Forces are relatively stringent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U60	There are no further requests to speak. Is there something the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U61	The following inquiry has been submitted by Jaanus Kariliid, Artur Talvik, Martin Helme, Märt Sults, Tarmo Tamm, Valeri Korb and Erki Savisaar. On behalf of the heirs, Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U62	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Indeed, on 10 May 2016, the signatories submitted an enquiry concerning the completion of the ferry on the major island routes and political responsibility. On 10 May we submitted it, but the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal also came here on 15 February to answer a similar question. He then denied the problems and claimed that the four new ferry ships would be on the line in time, October 1, nicely. Time passed, May 10th. To the opposition, to the various political forces at all, this had also been seen in the materials, and as early as 2013, Vice Chancellor Merike Saks claimed that four new ferry ships would not actually be ready in time. But also on 10 May, it seemed that this problem would still be denied. If the opposition had repeated five or six months in a row that it had to deal with plan B because, if it is not done in time, it will cost the taxpayer more, either in July or early August, there was a spiritual awakening on the board of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Then they were ready to admit to the public that really, no new ferry would be ready by 1 October. But on May 10, we asked ten more detailed questions, which we expect precise answers to. Hopefully, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure will not provide politically correct answers, but will go in depth and explain why things are still limping. I am sure that Members will have specific questions, and I will use the opportunity to speak later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U63	Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U64	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I wish you a nice season to begin! Since there are ten questions in the question, I will try as quickly as possible to fit in with the prescribed time. First of all, I will specify the introduction of the heirs. Here is this statement: 'The biggest problem with the procurement of ships from the taxpayer's point of view is the fact that, at some point, the execution of the contract awarded will cost more than has been confirmed to the contracting authority (or was aware of the increase in the potential costs of the contracting authority and accepted by the contracting authority). There are clear indications (implementation of Plan B, redesign of quays, etc.) that the additional cost to the taxpayer comes from the provision of ferry services, as well as from the failure to comply with State aid and public procurement law rules. ' I would like to say that these arguments are not true because, from the point of view of the taxpayer, the procurement of ferry services has not become more expensive. Secondly, the Supreme Court judgment of 2 December 2015 states that the argument made by Väinamere Liinid OÜ, i.e. the current carrier, regarding the granting of State aid, is not justified. Third, the position expressed by the Ministry of Finance on 14 November 2014 is that TS Laevad OÜ, which has signed a contract for the design and construction of passenger ships, is not a contracting authority within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act. Thus, the rules of the Public Procurement Act have not been ignored. But now the answers to the questions. Question one: '15. On February 22, 2016, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Mr Kristen Michal, confirmed in front of the grand hall of the Riigikogu that the construction of the ferry is on schedule, based on the assessments made by the members of the management board of TS Laevad OÜ. For what reasons must the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications withdraw from his earlier words today? ' In February, I replied as follows: 'The members of the management board of TS Laevad OÜ estimate that the construction of the ferry is on schedule. However, in the case of such an important issue, if it is a ferry connection to the islands, it must always be prepared for unforeseen events and back-up plans must be made. For example, the current carrier Väinameriline OÜ must have a plan for how to provide a service when one of the ships is off the line due to a breakdown. Therefore, be it delays in the completion of ships, subsequent technical failures, regular maintenance or any other such, the contracting carrier must be prepared to provide the service and have a plan for the provision of the transport service in all circumstances. The Management Board of TS Laevad OÜ has also publicly confirmed that they have these contingency plans. ' In commenting on the construction of ferry ships before the Riigikogu earlier, I was based on the best information available at that time, just as the question was referred to. That's what I'm gonna do today. There was no ministry in February, and I think that in this Chamber too, for example, the knowledge that a coup attempt is taking place in Turkey in July and the management of the Polish factory is changing. Both events affected the timetable for the construction of ferry ships. These are objective events that have taken place in the meantime. Neither the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications nor TS Laevad OÜ has ever denied the fact that the timetables for the construction of ferry ships have been very intense since the beginning. That is why I said right away, although there was information that the construction of the ships was on schedule, that there had to be a backup plan for each important section. If I didn't think so, there wouldn't be a backup plan for chartering replacement ships. The main thing is securing transport services, and TS Ships OÜ does so, the information of the replacement ships is public and the tickets are for sale. In the long view, a longer waiting period of a few weeks or months is smarter than a compromise in the quality of ships. Better a little bit of time for replacement ships than 20 years of troubleshooting. The second question: 'What dates have been agreed upon for the delivery of ferry ships to the carrier and are there any changes to the agreed delivery dates? ' This information has already been released several times, as Jaanus Karilaid referred to here. The ferry ships Leiger and Tõll are expected to be on the line in October, the ferry Tiiu in November and Piret at the latest at the beginning of the new year. The exact time limit for the transfer of vessels depends both on their construction and on the transfer process itself. As TS Ships OÜ has said, quality is the most important and ships will not be taken over from the builder in haste, even if the builder is willing to hand them over, but there are deficiencies in the quality of the ships. If there is new information, TS Laevad OÜ will definitely inform the Ministry and the public about it. The third question: "Is it true that the construction of ramps will be carried out in an accelerated manner, as new ferry ships are designed in such a way that they do not comply with existing port facilities and therefore do not fulfil the conditions of the procurement? " It is not true. The Saarte Lines of AS will not build ramps in the port of Kuivastu, Virtsu, Rohuküla or Heltermaa for ferry arriving on the route at normal or accelerated speeds. It should be understood that the development of ports is consistent work and ports belonging to the State company AS Saarte Lines are now and will continue to be developed regardless of which carriers' vessels they serve. Information about the development work done and planned by AS Saarte Lines is also publicly available on their website, I can tell you this address later if you want. Please note that the construction of docks and other marine installations is a very long process, with planning, design and environmental impact assessments, and usually lasts for several years. For example, the ports of Kuivas, Virtsu, Rohuküla and Heltermaa had to be thoroughly rebuilt for new ferries of Väinamere Lines OÜ that came on the line in 2010. This lasted from the design to the completion of the construction works for 5 to 7 years. Question 4: 'The state and its own companies are increasingly conducting targeted bidding and competitions, thereby ignoring what has been brought about by the Public Procurement Act. On 6 May Hiiu Leht noted that ramp design work is ongoing, questions about this: 4.1. Which State company is the contracting authority for these works, AS Saarte Lines or any other company in the State? 4.2. Was a public procurement carried out in order to carry out these works? If not, on what legal basis did the Public Procurement Act go by? " These are significant claims, which the person asking has not proved by the facts. There is also no understanding of who, when and how has violated the requirements of the Public Procurement Act. If it is necessary to order works in ports operated by AS Saarte Lines, the owner of the ports AS Saarte Lines will always do so. The islands' routes are managed by a total of 16 ports in six counties, thus being the largest port manager in Estonia. In organising procurement and asking for tenders, the company has complied with the Public Procurement Act. Members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to become familiar with the economic activities of the Saarte Lines every day and all their development activities are public. The development plan for islands' routes for the years 2014 to 2020 was endorsed by the company's board in 2014 and all significant investments are in line with the transport investment plan drawn up by the State. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that the development of ports is a long-term activity and now the preparation of investment decisions in the ports of Kuivastu, Virtsu, Rohuküla and Heltermaa started with the preparation of preliminary planning and cost-benefit calculations as early as 2003. In 2011, the islands' Lines undertook to build berths to serve new types of ferry in the ports of Rohuküla and Heltermaa. The decision was made to ensure a sustainable port service for Väinamere Line ferry Hiiumaa, Muhumaa and Saaremaa. Due to the end of the 2007 to 2013 funding period for the Cohesion Fund of the European Union, the planned investments have been carried over to the 2014 to 2020 funding period and will be carried out as soon as possible, presumably in 2019. In order to avoid disruption of traffic in the event of a technical failure of one ramp, there must be at least two berths in each port to ensure the connection of ships to the major islands of Estonia for each type of ship operating on the route, regardless of who is an operator on this route. This is necessary in order to comply with the requirements of the Maritime Safety Act and the Port Act and is the daily duty of the port manager. No major construction projects have been planned this year in the ports of Heltermaa, Rohuküla, Virtsu or Kuivastu in connection with ramps or berths. As a result of the arrival of new vessels on the line, ramps shall be checked and, if necessary, small-scale work shall be carried out to match them with new ships. This is a routine activity, AS Saarte Lines will do so on arrival of each new vessel on the route, also for Väinamera Line ships, so that the safety of the ships in the port is ensured. Question 5: Is and what kind of supervision is the Ministry supervising the contract in question in order to ensure that plan A, or the contract, is complied with? ' The Ministry normally supervises the public service contract. The public service contract concluded is for execution and will also be monitored. The new carrier is also directly associated with the management of the Ministry, both at the level of officials and on important issues. If the carrier fails to comply with the contractual obligations, contractual penalties shall be imposed. Compared to the current public service contract, the new contract provides for significantly more stringent penalties for breach of the contract, which should in itself motivate the carrier to do everything possible to ensure that the contract is properly executed. Question 6: 'From Plan B. What are the replacement ships sought by a state or state company, when are they coming on the line and how long are the replacement ships planned to be rented? Also, what is the additional cost to the taxpayer? ' The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has signed a public service contract on behalf of the State with joint suppliers TS Laevad OÜ and TS Shipping OÜ. Therefore, new operators have an obligation to ensure compliance with contractual obligations. They also bear the costs of replacement vessels and, in turn, impose contractual penalties on the shipyards. I've already told you about the replacement ships ahead. The return on the port ferry project is also 7,4% for all costs, which is a good and acceptable return. Question 7: 'The cost of bringing new ferries on the route is increasing. What additional contracts have been concluded and what financial commitments have been made for the construction of ferry vessels (e.g. ship design and interior design contracts, building monitoring contracts, various consultation contracts, etc.) for the execution of the purchase of large islands by TS Laevaid OÜ / TS Shipping OÜ and AS Tallinna Harbour? What is the actual total cost of implementing the large islands procurement at the moment? " Once again, the question seems a little focused. I would like to point out once again that the Ministry, on behalf of the State, has concluded a public service contract with the carrier, which explicitly sets the charges payable to the carrier, and these costs are also reflected in the media. The total cost of executing the service to the State is the same and remains the same. The State will pay EUR 200 million for a ten-year ferry service. The present value estimate is around 214 million, plus the cost of buying out ships if the state wishes to buy new vessels from TS Ships OÜ at the end of the contract period. TS Laevad OÜ can express its exact additional costs and the amount of fines charged to the plants when all the amounts are clear, they will probably have to pay a fine to the State as well. The total cost of the project is EUR 124 million. The efficiency of TS Ships OÜ's project, as mentioned, is 7.4%. Question 8: 'Considering that the construction of four ferry ships costs well more than EUR 120 million and that, due to the cancellation of the procurement or the breach of the terms and conditions of the procurement and the requirements for carrying out it, the taxpayer may suffer financial losses of the same magnitude, who must take responsibility in the event of a negative scenario? Is Mr Juhan Parts, Mrs Urve Palo, Mr Remo Holsmer, Mr Kristen Michal, members of the TS Ship and TS Shipping Board or a ministry official responsible? ' I repeat what has already been said: the state will not be more expensive and TS Ships OÜ will benefit from it by 7,4%, not damage. Someone might as well ask the proponents of the ferry of state-owned companies who we should be paying a bonus on this profit. The process could certainly have been better planned, in particular by taking more time, because time is a very necessary resource in order to do things of this complexity. Currently, TS Ships trades time for money. I've written more about it in Postimees this summer, and I'm not going to repeat the whole story again. I know that this process could certainly have been carried out better, but by the time it has a line, conclusions will be drawn. Certainly, the state should not repeat such mistakes. Question 9: Is and how has the State guaranteed proper passenger transport and the provision of quality services between the mainland and the islands from 1 October 2016? ' The State has concluded a public service contract for the operation of passenger transport. Since there is no risk for the carrier to ensure the transfer, TS Laevad OÜ has temporarily leased three replacement vessels. From 1 October, TS Laevad OÜ's ferry, next to Regula, serves the routes of the ferry Harilaid, Hiiumaa and St Ola. As soon as possible, new passenger ships shall be replaced by replacement ships. Question 10: Is and how is it planned to improve the quality of service from 1 October 2016 and how much the state will save taxpayers' money in a five-year perspective? " The State has concluded a public service contract for the service of passengers, but it is worth noting that the requirements imposed on the quality of regular services in the contract are significantly stricter than those laid down in the current contract. Compared to the current situation, where passengers are served by relatively old ships, the biggest qualitative leap will take place in the future with the arrival of new and larger ships on the route. TS Laeid OÜ also communicates with rural governments and local communities to learn their suggestions and ideas about how to improve the quality of regular services in the future. Compared to the tender of the second tenderer participating in the tender, the State will save around EUR 28,4 million in the five-year period 2016-2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U65	Thank you to the manager. Good Minister, thank you for your surprisingly thorough answers. You didn't sign the contract, but there are some very exciting things in this contract. For example, it becomes clear that although the price of a ferry to be built in Turkey is EUR 22.8 million, a clause has been put in the contract that the state may buy out these two ferry ships built in Turkey 12 years later, in total EUR 8 million more expensive. 12 years later, EUR 8 million more expensive! How could a jump like that get in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U66	Thank you. The option to buy out ships is included in the contracts. I don't know how to comment on the exact figures right now, so I'm gonna have to check it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U67	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U68	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I wonder how the price of a so-called thing or an item can be obtained. How did it happen that a ferry worth EUR 2 million was bought for EUR 4 million? Couldn't it have been 3.5 million, 3.9 million or 5.3 million? Where did this price come from? On the basis of what arrangement? The second mess is the price of the ferry lease, which was cleared at 1:00 a.m. in the morning. How is it possible that at one o'clock at night some state agreements will be made? Then it was agreed whether it was 6.4 million, 5 million or 6 million. How do such agreements come about? Doesn't the Public Procurement Act exist at all? Where does this price come from? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U69	Thank you. Once again, I bow to your psychic powers, Mr. Tamm. You probably know the cost of things in your sleep. I'm sure the dockers will contact you in the future. But now without a joke, AS Tallinna Sadam and TS Laevaid OÜ are negotiating the price of things, the rents and costs of ships. This is not done by the Ministry, the Ministry is in fact the contracting authority of the State, which requires a certain quality of service to be guaranteed. They can comment on the price; they have also done so publicly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U70	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U71	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm asking about sanctions. What is the amount of the contractual penalty per day for the delay exceeding the deadline for delivery of the ferry? What is the maximum number of days of delay in the delivery of the vessel, which would give the contracting authority the right to ask for a contractual penalty for delay in the delivery of the vessel?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U72	Thank you. This now depends once again on the agreements between the factories and Tallinn Port or TS Ships OÜ. The state imposes a fine Currently, the fines for repeated infringements are up to EUR 6400. The penalty for the cancellation of the journey is EUR 25000 and the total fine, which is approximate and not accurate, can amount to up to EUR 5 million. I can talk about the position of the state in relation to the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U73	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about contracts and sanctions for the construction of ships. Although it was considered very important that, on 1 October, ships would be available on routes, as you have already said, they would be completed on different deadlines. However, when ferry contracts were made, sanctions were also included in the contracts to cover this delay. You brought the other dates here, but the media is talking about delaying the completion of the ships until 1 December. In this case, will the Port of Tallinn be deprived of the fines imposed, because now the deadline is 1 December? When you made a new agreement, did these sanctions remain the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U75	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U76	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. TS Laevad OÜ is a 100% state-owned commercial company. How much will the state get richer if it asks TS Ships OÜ for contractual penalties?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U78	Thank you. Maybe I didn't quite understand you. I can be more specific later, if I'm wrong with the answer. But the current management of the port, the current board of directors of the port, according to my knowledge, has tried to make the contracts more favourable for themselves and to better protect their interests as a contracting authority against the plants. The previous agreements, as has been said publicly, were not of the quality that could have been seen by them. In fact, there are fixed time limits for this to be further specified in writing, from which point the fines will run and from which point TS Laevaid OÜ or the Port of Tallinn may say that he will not accept these ships if a certain deadline has been exceeded. It's a factory problem if they keep the goods. So these things are written down there, if precisely and in detail, it can be specified in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U79	Questions for the Minister. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U80	Thank you. In the same way, you might ask how much the country will be richer if Elron fails to comply with the departure schedule. The State treats all private companies in the same way and TS Laevad OÜ is a 100% subsidiary of the state-owned company. The same way we treat everyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, There's two philosophical sides messing up here. You quite rightly said that ships would not be taken over in haste and that this process involved risks from the start. Yet these risks were taken, even though the ripening schedule was tense. There's still a feeling of rabbis around here. You didn't answer one of the previous questions, is the fact that a ferry worth 2 million was bought out with 4 million is the result of this rabbiation and the price we are all actually paying for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U82	Thank you. Once again, the price at which the Port of Tallinn and their subsidiaries purchase ships or lease replacement ships is a matter of their business project and business margin. As I described, the profitability of their ferry project is 7.4%, which, in general, I would say, is a good and viable return. They had to get a spare ship either way, but the demand for a spare ship was already in place earlier. The general economic logic says that if a spare ship is used less, then a ship that costs less will have to be bought, because in that case the cost of holding this ship will also be lower and less money will stand, say, useless. But if you ask about this time and everything else, without discussing which of us has been more involved in making these decisions in the Riigikogu or in making any decisions, then of course, my opinion is that I have said it publicly before, so that more time should have been taken for such processes. This is a mistake the country may have made. If it was foreseen that these were complex processes, I should have thought about it calmly, but what would happen if... Now there is a situation where, as I referred to earlier, the missing time is exchanged for money. But actually, you could have taken that time first.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U83	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U84	Good President! Good minister! Not much has been said about the machines that are being put on new ferry ships. As we know, the Wärtsilä machines were originally planned there, but at one point they became MTUs. It is also known that the company responsible for building supervision is related to the suppliers of MTUs in Estonia and they also hold the maintenance of MTUs. Doesn't that give you any hesitation or questions as to why after the construction supervision had been appointed, Wärtsilä's machines were exchanged for MTUs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U85	Thank you. It is very difficult for me to comment on various arguments about different types of engines. I don't think we're both a very big expert at operating ferry engines, but maybe I'm wrong about you. As regards monitoring, TS Laevaid OÜ and the Port of Tallinn have ordered further analysis and assessments of the quality of these ships and projects, they have not restricted themselves to just one independent monitoring. This is precisely in order to avoid such potential conflicts of interest as you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U86	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U87	Good manager! Good minister! I heard you say that the failure of one ferry to arrive in time was due to a failed coup in Turkey. As I understand it, the Port of Tallinn has contributed to the future coup d'état. But if the coup had succeeded, wouldn't the ferry Tiiu have got here in time and the local bosses hadn't been replaced?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U88	Thank you. Now you've messed up. I was referring to the fact that, when we discussed it in spring, we did not foresee events that could result in ferry completion and arrival. There was some confusion in both factories and there was confusion in the Turkish country during that period. But once again, the work is ongoing, TS Ships OÜ communicates with the builders. He deals with quality issues so that he can get the ships of the highest quality possible. However, the ferry project is not a part of the coup attempt.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U89	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U90	Thank you. Mr. Minister! This inquiry was made, yes, at the beginning of May. In a month and seven days, we never got to wait in the spring for the debate on this topic in this Chamber, and now the situation has changed. But you said the process could have been better planned. Those are the general words. Would you describe in detail what was done wrong, and if you had been involved in this business, what you would have done differently, how you would have mitigated the risks and how you could have kept the EUR 2 million we have lost now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U91	Thank you. I think it's always a two-way thing. I have not been very eager to find out who did this to any major project, because I know that there are plenty of those who are looking for them. To say the lottery numbers of last week, I think we can both make it with incredible precision. You can't predict events. However, I would have the courage to say that planning and self-insurance against potential risks is an important component of large projects, either by the fact that there are alternative ways of doing so, TS Ships OÜ actually looked for it for replacement ships, or by taking more time to have a critical margin of time, and if something goes wrong and some glitch occurs, it is possible to find a solution. I think this is quite an elementary activity. Maybe we should have done this years ago. I do not want to refer to anyone specifically, I am just saying in terms of the process, that the next time the country starts ordering something, it should act like a smart customer, take more time, create a back-up buffer and then act. If all the new ferry ships are on the line, I think we need to take a few lessons, one way or another, in many ways, on how to do these things and how not to do them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U92	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Recently, the procurement of regular services between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa was won by Kihnu Waterways, one of which is owned by Rein Kilk, an entrepreneur and member of the IRL. Rein Kilg is known to have been charged with criminal charges in connection with economic crimes and the insolvency of the company. Criminal proceedings were also opened last year against the long-term managers of companies in the country that won the supply of regular services to the large islands. Corruption and, to a large extent, bribery have led to accusations. According to the Ministry and also the Minister, is the law, procurement procedures and ethical rules of the public authority fully in line with the situation where the state cooperates and concludes contracts with persons who have been charged with criminal offences?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U94	Thank you. This is the subject we have addressed on the legal side. I think it's either the Väinameriline or somebody else raised it somewhere. I hope I wasn't wrong. If I was wrong, I was wrong. This has been asked, yes, whether criminal suspicion or suspicion of port managers would in any way jeopardise the implementation of this procurement. In fact, the supplier is TS Laevad OÜ, therefore it is unlikely to pose a legal threat to this. If you ask about the second procurement, its history will be further reflected in different newspapers and will probably be reflected in the future. There were also three rounds of public tenders for which bidders were expected and eventually the contract had to be concluded. Luckily, this contract is signed and transport is taking place. If you ask me if it would be best for all entrepreneurs to have an impeccable background, I will of course answer yes, certainly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U95	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U96	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that the Port of Tallinn has commissioned additional experts in the framework of supervision. How many criticisms have been made by construction supervision, and why are they not trusted?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U97	Thank you. Indeed, as I replied to Artur Talvik, in the case of such projects, we also want to be sure of things, from the state's perspective, and I think that the management of the port and TS Ships OÜ want to be sure that several pairs of eyes would have looked at all these ship projects, including engine choices and other options. I think that this order of expertise is primarily due to this. After all, the current supervision player, the Baltic Workboats, is a team in the factories of both countries and is very careful to make sure that everyone gets there on time and is of the highest quality possible, as far as possible in the current situation. This is certainly not only a business issue for them, but also a matter of reputation. It's the island shipbuilders.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U98	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U99	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Today, questions and answers have been mentioned several times about the loss of valuable time. Media has also stated that this is already the fault of the previous Council of the Port of Tallinn, led by Neinar Sel, Chairman of the Council at the time, who deliberately ignored the wishes of the Minister of Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, that the Port of Tallinn would have been prepared for such a procurement in the past and that the processes would have been possible. How do you assess these claims? Do they contain the truth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U100	Thank you. Let's just say that it's hard for me, as a minister, to imagine that, as a result of a sensible conversation, we cannot come to the same conclusion that I cannot convince the council of a company or that they are unable to put forward arguments as to why it is unreasonable to behave in one way or another. As you have noted, during this year, a large number of companies in the country have undergone a number of shifts, with councils being replaced. Such good governance has been created everywhere, new people have been brought, which is rather positive. It would be very difficult for me to say from the position of minister that some of the Council Chairs stood up to me and we were unable to resolve this situation in a reasoned manner or to decide that either one of them would choose another way. That is my opinion, but it is very difficult for me to comment on specific circumstances. I think that this should be done by the parties involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U101	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I don't want to ask about procurement. You answer nicely and it looks like everything's okay, though if everything was okay, there wouldn't be any questions. But I'm asking about this summer. The summer was quite hot and hot not in the sense that it would have been hot, but there were a lot of complaints and criticisms about the ferry service. You could see it in the papers. I have personally experienced all of this, traveling to Saaremaa and being in a long line. How do you think that's the quality a ferry company has to offer? If you are not satisfied with this quality, then who is responsible for it, after all, is the custom of looking for the guilty, and what measures will be taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U103	Thank you. The Ministry also communicates with the current carrier, the Väinameriline. In fact, we are discussing precisely how many violations have taken place and what the consequences are. If you're asking if there are any queues, I think there's gonna be queues as long as the traction capacity isn't such that whoever comes in the general order gets over at rush hour. I've driven at rush hour myself and got on top of it, but there have certainly been situations, for example some weekends, when the forecast has not been exactly made and there have been longer queues than would have been reasonable. The carrier must provide a certain forecast, including the county authorities must make an estimate. As you can understand, the Ministry will be able to announce in advance the major events that we know about, but above all, this input must come from the ground. If the forecast is not very accurate, for example, if such events are not known in advance, the tail may often be longer. For example, we can tell the new carrier that Saaremaa Rally is on the first weekend of October, if I remember correctly. I can tell you in advance, there'll be lines. I think the carrier needs to start working for it now until his new ships get their hands on it to disperse the queues. It is important to let people know at what point the most people are moving and how to reduce this burden in order to minimise inconvenience for people. These things have to be planned. Either way, I think you'll agree with me that, like every morning, people come to town at the same time for some reason, so it's very often that people go to the islands on Friday night and come back on Sunday night. Therefore, the tail tends to develop from time to time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U104	Colleagues Märt Sults, according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one oral question within the framework of an inquiry. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U105	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You mentioned that alternatives must be constantly sought. In many years, Saaremaa or, let's say, Muhu and the mainland have been talking about a fixed connection in the form of a bridge. How far have these discussions reached in the Ministry? As we know, analyses have also been carried out and have cost the country quite a few millions. Times change too, speed needs to be increased all the time, but this ferry system, I think, is not in the long run what would satisfy people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U106	Thank you. I think that is a good and intrinsic question. For years I have been more passionate in favour of bridge construction, I have thought that this bridge should still be there, and generally I have been convinced that the bridge should come anyway. What's it stuck behind? As far as I can remember from the last conversations, it has been entangled primarily by the fact that different environmental impact assessments were made and at one point the state made a fundamental choice to start acquiring new ferries. New ferry ships will be procured for 20 to 30 years, so the question of the bridge will change, I think, again, in 5, 10 or 15 years' time. Here's what I'm gonna say. If you're asking if this bridge is supposed to be, look, there are different opinions here. As many as there are islanders, there are different opinions. There have been times when people thought the bridge should definitely come. I think that when the ferry connection is worse, there are more proponents of the bridge than if the ferry connection is smooth and there are no faults, it is probably said that they would like to preserve the insular nature of their home island. Very often it should also be remembered that even if the bridge to Saaremaa is built, the ferry ships between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa and between the mainland and Hiiumaa will continue to travel, as they will be in contact with the smaller islands. Ferry ships, as such, still have to stay on the road. We may only be able to solve the problem of the connection between Saaremaa and the mainland in this way. It is not a mathematical question, it must be discussed how much it costs, and it should also be understood whether the island's people really want this bridge, or whether the current ferry connection or the future better ferry connection will, in their opinion, retain the insular nature of their home island. That is, in my opinion, a completely debatable question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U107	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U108	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! I'm gonna start with a more positive one, and I'm gonna give you a few credit. I congratulate the Minister for agreeing to acknowledge that the policy planning process has been incomplete. I congratulate the Minister for agreeing to acknowledge that the implementation of the policy has been inadequate. I also congratulate the Minister for saying in his speech and answers that mistakes have been made and should not be repeated in the future. However, let us take a holistic look at this issue as well. The main issue is who is responsible for this mess. So far, an exemplary escape has been achieved from the political response. My colleague, Andres Ammas, also asked about the fact that, in 2011, when Juhan Parts had political will, but somehow the Council of the Port of Tallinn did not listen to him and did not start to implement this will, it was, of course, a sign of the Minister's weakness when he was unable to carry out his will, because in the end, as a general meeting, he was still the owner of the state company. Why didn't Juhan Parts do it? If 2011 had started to replace the operator or organise the competition, the whole process would have been correct and professional and everyone would be happy and four new ferry ships would have been ready a long time ago. It didn't happen. 2014 was such a policy phase when this competition was launched. The competition was won by a subsidiary of the port. The Public Procurement and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Finance made a preliminary act in which it showed that this procurement was void. Then the question went from the roster protocols to the study session. Urve Palo claimed that according to the guidelines of Taavi Rõivas, a clear political will to move forward. The Public Procurement and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Finance made a final act in which it showed that this procurement was still legitimate. The first act was nine pages long and it was said that the procurement was legal, the next act was 18 pages long and it was said that everything was actually okay. This shows that political will forced the authorities to behave incompetently and unprofessionally. This is also the reason why we do not actually find political authorities, because this is about Juhan Parts, it is about Urve Palo and one of the biggest bribes in Estonian history, when one member of the power party asked the private operator for 4 million euros of pleasure. This has been debated in the administrative court. There are different ways of interpreting what it wanted and why it happened, but the result is that the owner of the Väinamere Lines has publicly stated that he did not want to pay bribes and therefore lost his job. What I'm saying is that bribery and this whole affair is one of the main reasons why this case is so confusing and we haven't figured out how we can prosecute anyone. The second thing is that today's minister has not brought himself up to date with all the important nuances. The contract states that ships built in Turkey will cost 22,8 million. The contract shall include... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U109	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U110	... a clause was also written that in 2026 a country could buy out ships made in Turkey EUR 8 million more expensive. 12 years later and 8 million more expensive! Where did it come from? There are various speculations that, when the call for tenders took place, the tenderer did not have all the documents ready, the negotiations with the Turkish and Polish builders were only halfway through, and everything was formalised "synchronously" or "ex post." In any case, it gives the impression that there has also been a relatively violent behaviour. If we want to talk about an open economy, about the principles of the rule of law and about professional governance, that is certainly not the way to do it. Finally, I am talking about political responsibility. I would not want officials, and perhaps not all of the predecessors of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications today, but I would argue that Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas should be responsible for all this confusion, because at the meeting of his office a very clear political direction was given to push this thing through at all costs, although in 2013 the senior officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications stated that four new ferry ships would not be completed in time. In fact, the deadline could have been extended by one year and the whole policy planning process could have been done more professionally. But this is an example that if one party has been in power for a very long time, the coefficient of arrogance will be very high. That is why these things also happen in Estonia, so far they have remained unpunished and unaccounted for. The consequences, it's hard to say. There are a number of disputes. I know that the Väinameriline has gone to challenge certain procedures and processes of the European Commission. I sincerely hope that all of this will not be more expensive for the taxpayer. As I conclude, I do not represent the interests of any company here. I know that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has been indicted as if a representative of the opposition was involved in the interests of the Väinamere Lines. Absolutely not. If it is shown that the undertaking is not doing its job well, that the quality of the service is poor and that it costs too much, it is up to the State to take this service away from it, doing it as correctly as possible, in a competent and understandable manner. But, as we know, this whole process is haunted by this four million euro question. That's it. There were no more questions in this hall, but construction supervision is known to have made more than 200 comments on the whole process. Is that true, and what do these remarks actually contain? I do not know whether the Minister will answer the next question or whether he will today take this opportunity to explain. Construction supervision has done a good job. If there are 200 comments, it is a real proof that the work has been done seriously, but I would also have liked to have heard an overview of what the comments of the construction supervision consist of. But this is, of course, a very painful lesson in terms of our entire position of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U111	Thank you. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U112	Good President! Good minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Prince Hamlet said something was rotten in the Danish country. This could be paraphrased today and said that some serious crap has been written into the management of Estonian state companies, or something is rotten with Estonian state companies. On the other hand, a pop song could also be paraphrased, which said: 'Ups, I did it again! ', and you could say, 'Whoops, we had it again! ' The restructuring of state-owned companies and all this has been said awfully much, and there are now attempts to consolidate some sort of supervisory mechanisms and governance and to bring certain types of companies together. But even this change, which has taken place in the Port of Tallinn, has unfortunately not lost the reputation of politicisation in the management of the state company. On what basis do I draw that conclusion? The Port of Tallinn has continued to be confused, led by the Minister and the Ministry, or the Port of Tallinn has been under so-called political control and has followed the so-called political guidelines. So, what's this all about? I have been terribly disturbed by the fact that we are constantly being tried to give false information or to create a positive picture of this ferry procurement. Just recently, I read one of the generated PR articles that told me about all this bullshit that, oh, some kind of entrepreneurs are saying how nice the new ticket system is. But this is ridiculous. It should have been said from the start or at least when it turns out that the ferry ships aren't ready in time, that, dear people, we're in trouble and we're looking for a solution to this shit, but we're in trouble. Instead, they say there's no trouble at all. I remember how Kristen Michal went to the Tallinn Port Investigative Commission and tried with force to avoid all kinds of questions about ferry procurement. If this is the way to talk about confusion, I say that I find it absurd to say that we are fined (i.e. the Ministry is fined) by the company that we own. Basically, with your right hand, you hit your left hand at your fingers and you say, "Hey, left hand, behave yourself now! ' This is really a schizo situation. We all know that the state budget will be filled from the dividends received by 100% of the state-owned AS Tallinna Sadam, and its subsidiaries will be consolidated in order to produce this profit. These are surprising and continuing statements. That's exactly what it was when I said at the end of January that the contracts for ordering ferry ships were in trouble, and they tried to make me look like a stupid boy. That's what you're doing with business secrets and all that! Now all these things have come out nicely. I'll take a little extension just in case...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U113	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U114	...though I don't have much more to say. In my opinion, the basic question of how to manage state companies is to come back to the start. I think the solution is not necessarily that all public companies must be sold. Not at all. There are certainly strategic companies that should belong to the state. But the one thing that should get rid of in the management of state-owned enterprises is politicisation. The Chancellor of Justice has also drawn attention to this. How to do that, I can't give a straight answer here today. Although Kristen Michal now certainly claims right over here that, but you see, we have such apolitical councils and we have already made changes in governance, the real life shows that these changes have not been enough. We also look for answers to these problems ourselves. I invite you to come on 5 October to listen to a small conference right here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, which seeks an answer to the question of how to depoliticise state companies and bring the management of state companies to an intelligent level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U115	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like to speak? No, I don't. We have closed the debate on today's second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U116	Let's keep going. Members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Karilaid, Artur Talvik, Martin Helme, Märt Sults, Tarmo Tamm, Valeri Korb and Erki Savisaar have submitted the third question. The question is about the completion of ferries and political responsibility on the routes of the islands. [[Interjections.]] I'm sorry! The manager apologizes! Let's go to the fourth question. This is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Korbi, Mailis Reps, Valeri Korb, Tarmo Tamme, Kadri Simson, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Viktor Vassilyev, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov and Mikhail Stalnukhin into gas appliance accidents. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. On behalf of the heirs, please ask Mikhail Korbi, Member of the Riigikogu, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U117	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, congratulate you on your new working season and wish everyone fruitful results and good laws. But I am going to go from such a big political issue to a slightly smaller but not less important issue, i.e. I am going to talk about accidents involving gas appliances. First of all, let me remind you a little bit of the circumstances. This year began with a series of tragic gas boiler accidents. It wasn't too short for the accident saga to have had a tragic continuation on 13 May. Fortunately, a gas accident was discovered early enough, and two children under the age of 15 were able to call an ambulance in time. According to the Technical Surveillance Authority, the accidents that occurred this year are extremely exceptional. There have been no similar cases for years. This is currently a wider problem, as there were similar accidents in Tallinn on Erika and Kopli streets and in Narva on Victory Street. The Technical Surveillance Authority has argued that all the tragic accidents that took place this year alone were caused by unauthorised ventilation and flue-gas conversion related to the internal gas installation or by the misalignment of the flue-gases of the gas installation. At the same time, a gas accident occurred in an apartment in Narva, where gas appliances and ventilation were controlled only in October last year. The causes of accidents are therefore not clear. We turned to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure for questions, there are three of them, and everything concerns this issue. We hope that, even if we fail to prevent all such incidents, it will at least be possible to inform people very accurately about the dangers that threaten them. The aim is to prevent such incidents. I'm counting on a fruitful discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U118	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U119	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! There are three questions in this question. I'll read the questions and answer them again, as usual. The first question: 'In recent years very much emphasis has been placed on fire safety through the smoke detectors information campaign as well as control. How is it planned to raise people's awareness that gas appliances should be checked annually and that responsibility lies with the owner of the dwelling? What is the role of the Technical Surveillance Authority here? ' There are many parties who have a role to play in ensuring gas safety. The responsibility lies with the gas appliance manufacturer and the seller; the seller is responsible for the compliance of the gas appliance. The owner of the dwelling is responsible for ensuring that the conditions necessary for the safe operation of the gas appliance are in place in the dwelling, including the gas appliance must be in order. The gas appliance installer is responsible for the correct installation. In advance, I say that on several occasions the problem has been caused by arbitrary and incompetent construction work. Fire safety is supervised by the Rescue Board. In the event of accidents with casualties, the case officer is the Police and Border Guard Board. The housing company should also handle upkeep and information in the apartment building. Local authorities also have a role to play in monitoring. The municipality carries out construction supervision, including the safety of the use of the building. The Technical Surveillance Authority that you mentioned will carry out national supervision in the area of gas safety. The Technical Surveillance Authority shall examine the technical causes of accidents and shall carry out national monitoring of compliance with the requirements for the placing on the market and the installation and use of gas appliances. After tragic accidents, I asked the Technical Surveillance Authority to pay significantly more attention to the gas safety of apartment buildings and to informing people. The Agency has updated its risk forecast and increased its supervisory activities. In addition to the supervisory activities, TJA has also provided information to companies selling gas at the request of TJA. All customers have been sent repeated reminders along with gas billing about the risks that a gas appliance may pose and information on where to get advice is included. Information has been shared both at public events and with the help of the press, who have very carefully informed people about the dangers and the possible reasons for them. Raising awareness and maintaining it requires continuous work, a one-off campaign is not enough. That is why I consider it necessary for work to continue to improve people's awareness. As far as national supervision is concerned, the Technical Surveillance Authority has carried out random checks on apartment buildings and, in the event of deficiencies, has also issued precepts. In the area of gas, there are currently 300 monitoring procedures for the circa, including 70 procedures against the owners of housing associations and in-house gas installations. In the Ministry, we also reviewed legislation that could be amended in order to improve safety by means of the rules laid down by the state. During the summer, a draft regulation laying down the obligation to install a carbon monoxide sensor was prepared, and just today I sent a draft regulation to coordinate. This means that just as everyone has a smoke detector at home, there will be a carbon monoxide sensor at each gas appliance in the future. Yeah, it's a $20-80 cost, depending on the characteristics of the sensor, but it can save life. It was clarified that the maintenance of the gas appliance is not merely an assessment of the technical condition of the gas appliance. It also means checking the conditions required for the safe operation of the gas appliance. There has also been a case of an accident involving the use of a gas plant which was technically and newly inspected. The accident was caused by the functioning of the kitchen cube, which turned the ventilation of the gas unit back on and pulled the combustion gases back into the indoors. The accident was also facilitated by changing the bathroom door to the door without any openings. The second question: 'Many of the members of the building management company are concerned that they do not have any tools to control the apartments in the building, because the property is untouchable and the owner does not have to allow the manager of the building management company to enter the apartment. How do you feel that today's legislation guarantees the possibility to carry out checks in apartments? In the light of recent accidents, should these possibilities be reviewed in law? " Above all, it needs to be clarified that home immunity is not an absolute right. If the conditions necessary for the safe operation of the gas appliance are not guaranteed in the dwelling, this puts everyone in that apartment at risk. In order to address such a threat, national supervisory authorities have the right to intervene and, where necessary, use force under both the Equipment Safety Act and the Law on Law Enforcement. Nobody else has the right to violate the integrity of their home by force, nor have the law authorized the representatives of the building management company to invade the apartment of other persons. Giving such a right to a private person is not considered reasonable or conceivable. The owner of the dwelling is responsible for his or her property, which includes both the real part of his or her apartment property and the imaginary part of his or her apartment building. As regards ownership, he shall have the right to use it and to dispose of it under the responsibility of maintaining it and ensuring safety. If the owner of the dwelling fails to comply with the obligation imposed on him or her, he or she can only be forced through public supervision, and sometimes limiting the use of gas by closing the taps may also be an effective means. With regard to the use of gas appliances, maintenance of the conceptual part means in particular the maintenance of the building ventilation system, as well as the maintenance of gas pipelines and other technical systems. Unfortunately, maintaining them may require access to all apartments. If the owner refuses to allow the controller to enter the dwelling, it would be appropriate to involve the national supervisory authority. However, most of the problems are not about the owner's refusal to perform maintenance activities, but about time planning. Understandably, larger apartment buildings may find it difficult to find a suitable time for upkeep operations. At the same time, checking the ventilation system through the entire building may not be effective or beneficial. The solution is cooperation between neighbours, which is likely to be understood in the light of the objective. The third question: 'The rumor is that recent accidents are caused by the composition of gas, which has different properties. Has the gas that moves in the Estonian gas pipelines been controlled and has it been verified that there are no problems with its composition? 'The Technical Surveillance Authority has checked the composition of the gas and has not detected anything anomalous. This is an urban legend because, in fact, accidents have been linked to carbon monoxide from the incomplete combustion of gas. The carbon monoxide is produced under insufficient combustion air conditions. Since carbon monoxide cannot be perceived by the human mind, the solution to prevent accidents is the mandatory installation of a carbon monoxide sensor, which I mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U120	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U121	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I, too, have been in contact with the presidents of the building management company. In the situation that arose, in the example of North Tallinn, they blame the legislator. At the time, the building management company was responsible for the quality and compliance of the installation of the equipment. At one point, the law was amended, and now the owner of the dwelling is responsible only for this device. Of course, it is easier for the owner of the dwelling to take risks and not to manage them as correctly as the building management company, for example, because there is a greater liability. The landlord only thinks about his own apartment, but he doesn't think about what might happen. Why did they do that back then? Have you started analyzing that maybe it would be reasonable to restore a situation where the chief responsible for making sure everything is correct in the house is a housing company?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U122	Thank you. I cannot say that we have analyses of whether the will of the legislator could be changed in this form. I can check. I am sure that the explanatory notes of the earlier drafts are available to you and to me, why this situation was changed and what the logic was.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U123	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm sorry, but I'm coming back to that legend. Over the years, there have been no such fatal cases, with 10 to 12 years ago there was a program in Estonian municipalities, during which Soviet gas appliances were replaced with new ones. There is such a belief that these devices are designed for the use of natural gas, but at present, knowing where this gas will come into our system, there is no guarantee that it will not be made up in any way of oil shale gas, which is brought here in conditioned form and subsequently made into service. Are you absolutely certain that, technically and by the standards, this gas is suitable for those gas appliances that are currently in use?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U125	Thank you. Once again, the Technical Surveillance Authority has checked it precisely to be sure of it. I can rely on the experts' assessment of the composition of the gas from the Technical Surveillance Authority. It's been checked. They say they didn't find anything anomalous. As far as experts are concerned, these accidents have still occurred because rooms and ventilation systems have been misplaced and tampered with. What should be connected to the air drain somewhere is somehow connected to the air flow coming back into the room. As I described, as a result of the groin, the air began to move the other way around and to ensure that the accident would certainly happen, a completely airtight door had also been put in place, even though in the past there was a door with holes, etc. These things happen. It's all hindsight. We have also discussed the same thing at several meetings in our house that the prevention of such accidents must be a complex process. The first hypothesis was what you mentioned, too, that one generation of equipment might have been amortized and may have started arbitrary exchanges. It was discussed with the machine vendors. To date, we have reached the point that repeated notifications have been sent to all gas consumers, what are the risks, how the device can be controlled and who can be contacted. We have decided to make carbon monoxide sensors mandatory for anyone using such equipment. This is not a high cost, the wholesale price of these equipment is probably significantly lower than EUR 20. These are the cheapest sensors, moisture-proof carbon monoxide sensors cost up to 80 euros. But if it saves a life, it's a reasonable expense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U126	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, the mandatory introduction of sensors into the game is a good and sensible pan, although it means a little expense. The question that could be discussed is whether gas suppliers would not be able to make this expenditure. But it's a question of discussion. You mentioned that the Technical Surveillance Authority is doing quite a lot of monitoring, and there are quite a few proceedings in progress. How often are such violations detected that they force equipment to be rebuilt or rebuilt? Do you have any statistics like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U128	Thank you. It's hard for me to judge. We can clarify this from the Technical Surveillance Authority, but they still rely on certain risk forecasts and possible risks, on the information they are given and on the basis of which they initiate these procedures and go to see these devices. It is therefore difficult to project in general. But we should know that there might be something wrong with about any gas device. The TSA is still based on the information they have, and they operate according to it. As you said, around 300 monitoring procedures are currently underway. The first part of the question concerned the carbon monoxide sensor. I agree. I know that there is a debate on whether gas sellers could be the ones who could somehow mediate or distribute these sensors to their customers or do something else to get them at wholesale prices and cheaper. Let's see how this process goes on, but presumably we should get to the point of having all these carbon monoxide detectors in a year. Once again, if this five or a few dozen euros saves someone's life or keeps someone's health, I think it is very well spent money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U129	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. We're done answering the third question. Thank you to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U130	Let's keep going. Today's fifth question is about the protection of Apollo's sea area. It is presented by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõm, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Artur Talvik and Jüri Adams. On behalf of the heirs, I ask Mr Andres Ammas, Member of the Riigikogu, to speak on the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U131	President-in-Office of the Council. Honorable Minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! For quite a number of years, the giants have been more or less agitated by the question of whether it would be appropriate to build large, allegedly even the world's largest wind farms north and northwest of Hiiumaa. Those in favour of wind parks have said that this will boost the development of the island. Opponents of wind parks have said that it can make the present beautiful and unique island a more industrial area and destroy the uniqueness of the island forever. There are quite a few aspects of this issue, but in this question we have focused on nature conservation and environmental aspects. We ask whether the Apollo Sea Area, or Apollo Lowland, or partly Vinkov Lowland, will become a protected area or not. One might ask why it is so important to take down one of the groundings in the first place. I found in the Hiiumaa newspaper Tiit Leito, the nature man in Hiiumaa, a romantic expression that I am happy to convey to you. He said the sea is like a desert and the lowlands are oasises in this desert. There are more vegetation in the shallows, there are all kinds of sea creatures, fish go there to spawn, birds come there to rest and eat these fish. In short, a lowland is necessary for many. Especially the Apollo plain is loved by such fine diving ducks as the balconies. They've been tried to count. It has become apparent that there are several hundred thousand of them, how much exactly, the minister will let us know, after all, he has counted them. But whether this protected area comes or not, there are slightly different opinions about it. In July Hiiu Lehes published an article in which the minister delighted the giants that it would come, but at the beginning of September a reply was received from the Ministry to the request for information that this formation had not yet been decided. We are now hoping that the Minister will be fully clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U132	Thank you. I ask for an inquiry to be answered by Minister Marko Pomerants of the Environment!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U133	Hello! Happy New Year! It's a great day, the president opened it, I'm done. That's fine with me. But now to the formation of the Apollo Lowland and the protected area. I'm going to go through the questions I've been asked, nicely, and maybe the clarity will be bigger as of tonight. The first question from you to me was why the proposal of the Baltic Environment Forum to bring Apollo under low protection has not been dealt with at a reasonable rate and at what stage is the procedure for granting protection. The proposal to establish the Apollo Marine Protected Area was made by the Baltic Environment Forum in January 2011. The Ministry of the Environment forwarded this proposal to the Environmental Board, which will organise an expert assessment of the justification of the conservation of the natural object and the feasibility of the proposed restrictions. The first expert study was already completed in November 2011 and supported the establishment of a nature reserve by proposing to enumerate the targeted zone regime for the entire area and also to present a network of Natura nature and bird areas. In January 2012, four energy objections were raised concerning the expertise prepared. The protection of the Apollo marine lowland will be dealt with on 1 October 2012 at the meeting with the four Energys agreed upon and in accordance with the work plan of the Environmental Board. The four Energys promised to carry out studies and submit their results to the Environmental Board. Studies have been carried out, but no results have been submitted to the Environmental Board. The Environmental Board has therefore continued to protect Apollo's sea plain according to its work plan. The procedure for initiating the grant of protection has now undergone legal expertise and language management; it is currently in the final stages of the Environmental Board, the result of which will be submitted to the Ministry of the Environment and then the Minister will initiate the formation of a protected area by decree and a new dispute will begin again, who is in favour and who is opposed. If we come back to Hiiu Lehe and today, it is legally correct to say that the procedure has not been initiated, but in this direction it is in a one-way direction now. 'Has the importance of this area been established as an area of international importance? 'The importance of the protected area for migratory birds has been confirmed by a study carried out in 2014-2016 in the course of the latest project 'Inventing the natural values of Estonian marine areas and developing a monitoring methodology'. The project was carried out by the Estonian Maritime Institute of the University of Tartu with partners. The number of large dive duck, auli, haha and whales on the Apollo seashore was detected in spring 2015 and the number of orphans was also detected in summer 2015. Following the entry into force of the conservation rule, the European Commission is invited to include the Apollo marine lowland site in the Natura 2000 network as a nature and bird area. Speaking of honour, whether it is still an awesome area, Aino Aul was my class manager, I have to make an effort on behalf of the honours, he was a very nice Estonian teacher, then, for example, the birdwork studies show that Apollo's low sea area is a crucial stopping, feeding and wintering area due to the nature of the Estonian open sea areas near the Baltic Sea and Hiiumaa. The number of birds of international importance meets the criteria (global clusters, i.e. for experts, A4 and C4, major concentrations in the European Union) and exceeds the national threshold for stopping areas five times. So, from the point of view of the honours, this is a perfectly good area that must be dealt with with with all seriousness and protected. The third question: 'Why is the regional planning of the sea areas bordering Hiiu County providing planned areas for wind energy production to the low Apollo, on which no buildings should be built, according to expert opinion? " In the plan of sea areas bordering Hiiu County, the formation of Apollo's sea plain protected area has apparently been regarded as the same planned activity as the establishment of a wind farm. Maybe two mutually exclusive planned things are in one area, but both are still on the plan level. Based on the latest map information from the Wind Energy Association, these locations do not overlap. Once again, I say in such a simplified way that if you look at the theme plan of the Hiiumaa sea areas and talk abstractly about this Apollo lowland, it may seem that there can be either one or the other, but today these areas have also been drawn into this plan in such a way that the future Apollo reserve is a bit northward and the windmill area is a bit of an island, i.e. Hiiumaa. Of course, no protected area can be an abstract lowland, but it has a specific surface area, and this area will be derived from the same depth lines. An area of 5216 hectares has been selected (there is also a comma there, but I do not know how much this will help you, this comma), where in the future this protected area would be. Thus, anyone who hopes that the Apollo Ground Reserve will prevent the building of windmills can be told that this is certainly not the case. These are different areas, which do not mean that when specifically discussing windmill planning, there will in turn not be any additional environmental issues. The fourth question: 'Why is the plan of the sea areas bordering Hiiu county planned only after the establishment of the plan to assess the importance of Apollo and Vinkov's lowlands in terms of compliance with the criteria for an area of international importance if the relevant studies and censuses have already been carried out in the past? " This question is primarily for plan makers. We have made clear the international importance of the Apollo Lowland. As regards the Vinkov Lowland, which I do not think you asked about in this question, the simple answer is that no organisation has now proposed to establish a protected area on the Vinkov Lowland. If such a proposal comes forward, its feasibility can be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U134	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I wanted to ask what laws make it possible to build windmills in the water. Based on what laws can such a project come to mind, namely the construction of the sea? I know from my experience that water law is a very harsh law. Which one of the law pricks allows it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U136	I'm totally ashamed right now. I don't really know what to call it, but I'm sure it's under the law. I'll teach myself and let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned that, in the case of the Apollo Lowland, the decision has already been taken in favour of the target zone. Would you like to explain why such a choice? Why not a restricted zone?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U138	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U139	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Minister, for getting into this. I am no expert on how quickly these protected areas can normally be formed. Is it common that the process has lasted five and a half years and will probably last a few months, or is it somewhat unusually long? The politician has all sorts of evil thoughts. The Four Energy lobby hasn't delayed this process, has it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U141	Okay. If I remember correctly what is stated in the Nature Conservation Act, there is an interesting aspect that the process of initiating or not initiating proceedings is in no way limited in time. In fact, it could be completely clear, for example, in cases where no protected area is formed, people should not be alarmed by 'lost decades'. But as far as formation or this procedure is concerned, I believe that the law provides for 24 months. It would then be reasonable and good practice to be able to cope during this period. Going to this particular process: is it possible to blame the Four Energys for stretching or not? The fact is, the birdwork they promised to do has been ordered by them, and it has been presented to them, but somehow the final cohort is not there. This does not mean that the people concerned do not know what is happening to the honors and how much honor there is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U142	I do remember the question, but first I will talk about what the target zone regime would mean there. It doesn't mean people can't move there at all. They might. The plan is that people can be there, they can travel with floating equipment, they can fish, and they can also organise folk events with the consent of the guardian of the protected area. It was kind of funny to me because I was wondering what kind of folk events were going to be in there, but I don't know, some people want to suddenly, I don't know, massively kayak like that. In addition, it is also possible to build and maintain the buildings needed to ensure navigation conditions, but economic activity and the use of natural resources are prohibited. I think that this need for a targeted zone regime is due to the fact that there can be no windmills and some glory in the area at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U143	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U144	Good President! Good minister! In my opinion, it is a little absurd that so-called renewable energy production is restricted by nature conservation restrictions. I also cannot understand why Estonia has not managed to reach such an agreement that such elements could also benefit the community, so that the same electricity could be distributed free of charge to the local community so that they could benefit from it. What is the attitude of the Ministry of the Environment towards wind energy or renewable energy, in this area in general, and are such restrictions not an obstacle to the wider take-up of renewable energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U145	Thanks! The position of the Ministry of the Environment on wind energy is not negative. That would be absurd, because it is a type of renewable energy. But I have repeatedly said that nature reserves must not be formed for the wrong purpose, which means that this must not be done to prevent any other activity. Nature reserves can only be formed for conservation purposes, i.e. to protect a species or preserve a habitat, and then other activities must simply retreat from that area. But when it comes to the surroundings of Hiiumaa, somebody thinks there's an open sea, and somebody thinks there's a coastal sea, that's what they're arguing about. Time will show the extent to which windmills can be built there. I think these windmills are coming. But to what extent and how exactly are we going to move forward, and in what timetable? We'll see. But there are certainly people who think that windmills of all kinds are completely out of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U146	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U147	Good manager! Good minister! I already know pretty well that it's a good conservation argument to use as a malana. For example, the Nabala Reserve, which has been used to prevent the construction of railways, is being used today to prevent the construction of windmills in the sea. But actually, these millions of water birds, bollocks, red-throat divers, and so on, flying along the coast. Apollo is only one of those lowlands where a protected area can come into. Are there any plans to make new protected areas for their long journey along the coast to where the windmills are not yet ahead? Or aren't these protected areas coming if nobody wants to start making windmills there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U148	Thanks! I gave answers on a specific area. There are no proposals for even the Vinkov Lowlands today. As far as I know, there is no such initiative to discourage any activity anywhere around the West Estonian islands at present. But I could be wrong. I don't think there are any.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U149	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U150	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Honourable colleagues! Since, thanks to the concerned giants, I have learned incomparably more about this whole issue than before, I will also take the opportunity to share with you some facts about what is happening there. First of all, it may be important to know, and I was pleased to hear from the Minister's report that the fate of one count of one hundred thousand and another count is being taken seriously. As early as 2008, the Riigikogu joined the agreement on the protection of migratory water birds in Africa and Eurasia. Among these birds, the same duck is honored. The Parties to this Agreement state that the sites and their habitats relevant to migratory birds in their territory are identified and that the protection, maintenance, improvement and restoration of these sites are organised. So it's a good thing the Ministry of the Environment takes this issue seriously. The Minister already once referred to the regional plan of the sea area bordering Hiiu County, established in June this year, which the opponents of the establishment of a wind farm consider to be the first serious step towards the establishment of a wind farm. The opponents of the wind park are concentrated in the NGO Hiiu Tuul. As was recently read in the paper, they have even hired a lawyer's office of former Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, to defend their interests. They have hired Teder's office to apply by court for the annulment of the order imposed by Hiiu County Elder, because the processing of the county plan has not been sufficiently thorough according to the opponents of the wind farm. If the supporters of wind energy say that a small group or group of people are not in favour of wind farms, I guess that is not the case. In 2009, 8 000 signatures were collected against wind farms. 8,000 signatures don't come from the wind, that's a significant amount. This is why those who oppose the wind farm are worried and also speak about these nature conservation aspects. As we have heard today, the Minister thinks that windmills will necessarily come. I dare not argue or agree, but the key question here is that when this nature reserve is formed, what is the restricted zone or the target zone and what exactly are the conditions that come out there? The Minister is optimistic that there is probably room for both wind generators and birds. In one article, I found the claim that birds from a wind generator within a radius of at least two kilometres cannot come because they are disturbed. So this distance there has to be a lot longer. However, I also dare to assume that lobbyists have played a pretty powerful role in the fact that the whole process has been so slow. Undoubtedly, in this fight, the Four Energies have a greater power than the opponents of the wind farm. My sympathy always tends to lean towards the weaker. I would very much like to hope that this process will continue to be the focus of Minister Pomerants, not only by performing on this platform today, and that nature conservation aspects will continue to be taken into account there, and the intensive lobby of industrialists will not simply pass over the concerns of local people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U151	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like to speak? No, I don't. We're done answering the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U152	Let's go to today's final question. The fifth question has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Mailis Reps, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Andrei Novikov, Enn Esmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Erki Savisaar, Anneli Ott, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassiliev, Mikhail Korb and Peeter Ernits. The inquiry is about water traffic on Lake Viljandi. Kersti Sarapuu to speak on behalf of the inquisitors, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U153	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Very honourable Minister! Members of the Centre Party Group have submitted an inquiry to Marko Pomerants, the Minister for the Environment, and the subject is water traffic on Lake Viljandi. While the previous question was borne by the concerns of the giants, this question is borne by the concerns of the Fertilisers. Water traffic on Lake Viljandi has put at risk the functioning of the lake's biota, as the water traffic on the jet skis and boats there does not take into account the current standards. According to the Water Act, the maximum speed allowed for watercraft is 30 kilometres per hour in the Estonian inland waters, but a large part of the jet skis and boats sailing on Lake Viljandi are said to fail. The main concern is the speed crossings of the jet ski drivers, which put fishermen, holidaymakers, kayak athletes and tourists who rented a rental boat in the lake at risk during the summer. The Office of the Environmental Inspectorate Viljandi has an obligation to measure the speed of the vehicles on the lake, but the institution does not have sufficient technical equipment, revised speed meters to control the speed of the vehicles. Many residents of Viljandi County, who in letters to the Minister of the Environment, Viljandi County Elder and Viljandi City Council have also expressed great concern about water traffic in the lake, have requested the restoration of clean living arrangements on Lake Viljandi. In this regard, we have the following questions for the Minister. The first question: 'The sub-unit of the Environmental Inspectorate has an obligation to control water traffic on Lake Viljandi. Why is it not carried out when it is known that the lack of control, in particular, has led to a situation where watercraft drivers fail to comply with the speed allowed? 'The following question: 'The regulations adopted by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications on 31.01.2006', 'The requirements for the safe use of the jet ski and for the preparation of the jet ski driver's certificate, as well as the form of the jet ski driver's certificate, indicate that the watercraft drivers are driven by the sea and navigable inland waters. According to § 2 (11) of the Maritime Safety Act, Lake Viljandi is not a navigable body of water, so on what grounds are jet voyages and the organisation of jet sport competitions on Lake Viljandi allowed at all? " The third question: " Lake Viljandi is one of the Natura 2000 sites where the state has a duty to organise their protection and to contribute to the preservation of natural values. How do you view water traffic as affecting the state of Lake Viljandi as a nature reserve? ' And the last question: 'The inhabitants of Viljandi County are concerned about how to ensure water traffic that takes account of the rest of the lake and to prevent damage to fish stocks caused by jet skis. What measures do you intend to take to stabilise the situation? ' Since our inquiry has been submitted on 30 May, the whole summer has passed in the meantime, I believe the Minister will be able to give an exhaustive answer to the situation of this summer as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U154	Thank you. I ask for an inquiry to be answered by Minister Marko Pomerants of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U155	Hello again! I see a large number of signatories here. I wonder how many of you made it to Viljandi last summer. [[???Vahelehüüe: 'Ühe korra.'???]] Certainly, one non-signatories, Head of Seeder, Lake Viljandi, are constantly working on monitoring and monitoring. But that's it. I went to the site and I was ready to answer those two questions right away, but you ran out of working hours, and I had to wait for the fall. Okay, first question. A sub-unit of the Environmental Inspectorate has an obligation. Why isn't it being carried out? That's the question you read. The Environmental Inspectorate is carrying out regular checks on Lake Viljandi from an environmental point of view. The Office of the Environmental Inspectorate Viljandi had an agreement to organise speed measurements with the police on a few weekends, but there were no jets during this period and therefore these specific measurements were not made. Now, when you come to the complaints, they've been as follows. On May 24, a motorboat sailed, on July 25, a jetty was driven, 19/21. On August 28, there were four complaints about the jet ski competitions, with the Environmental Board coordinating the event. The protocol for the verification of the object has been drawn up on Lake Viljandi 13 and these checks have been several times more. Towards the end of the response, I will say whether it really makes sense for the Environmental Inspectorate to deal with it. Now the second question, which concerns the basis for driving on Lake Viljandi. The answer is that the requirements for the storage and use of watercraft on Lake Viljandi, as well as on other public and public water bodies, are regulated by § 18 of the Water Act, and by Decree No 67 of the Minister for the Environment of 29 November 2002 on the storage and use of watercraft. The main requirements are as follows: The general rule is that the maximum permitted speed for craft is 30 kilometres per hour. The Environmental Board has the right to allow a higher limit speed for the duration of the water sports competitions, at the request of the local government, if such activity does not endanger aquatic life or the aquatic environment. In turn, a rural elder has the right to limit the limit speed laid down in the regulation to 30 km/h or to prohibit waterborne navigation. Jet traffic on Lake Viljandi as a problem that disturbs a part of the population will arise with varying success almost every year, disturbing local residents from the point of view of noise as well as fishermen and those who practice and train rowers from the point of view of waves and noise. For example, fishermen have proposed to ban sailing jet skis on Lake Viljandi, as fish larvae suffer as a result of the jet voyage. At the same time, the decree of the Minister for the Environment has been amended to meet the water sportsmen in order to enable the organisation of competitions on water bodies. This option has been used repeatedly by the Environmental Board to organise scooters competitions. Of course, it is taken into account that the time of nesting of birds and the spawning time of fish are over, and that the organiser of the competitions ensures compliance with safety and environmental requirements. The third question concerns the inclusion of Lake Viljandi in Natura 2000 sites: 'How do you think water traffic affects Lake Viljandi as a nature reserve? ' Lake Viljandi is part of the Natura 2000 network Viljandi nature area, the conservation objective of the site is to protect the species of the otter and eel in the Habitats Directive and the habitat type of naturally abundant lakes. The protection of the habitat type of the Habitats Directive implies the need to protect the whole of the lake so that it maintains favourable living conditions for all species specific to the particular type of lake. Inside the country, Lake Viljandi is part of Viljandi landscape reserve and is protected by the restriction zone regime. The survival of the lake habitat type and species of the Habitats Directive on Lake Viljandi is not at risk if the maximum speed of the watercraft is respected, so there is no reason to completely prohibit water traffic on Lake Viljandi. The status of protection values is not compromised by short-term jet sport competitions if they take place outside the spawning season of the fish and the breeding season of the birds, so it is necessary to coordinate the timing of such competitions with the Environmental Board in advance. However, constant traffic above the maximum permitted speed may have a detrimental effect on the lake's natural values, so we certainly do not consider it right to allow daily waterborne traffic. Question 4: 'The inhabitants of Viljandi County are concerned about how to ensure water traffic that takes account of the rest of the lake and to prevent damage to fish stocks caused by jet skis. What measures do you intend to take to stabilise the situation? ' On the lake's fish stocks, the Ministry of the Environment keeps an eye on it, there's regular monitoring. As of today, it cannot be said that there have been any changes in fish stocks in order to allow for any conservation measures to be taken in respect of fish stocks. However, the shoreline of the lake must be protected, as there is the most sensitive fish and the density of the candy is highest. The jet area should remain in a deeper water area than three metres. The mayor could bring these restrictions in. As far as other road users are concerned, the problem is likely to be that the limit speed of 30 kilometres per hour is not respected. It's only at a higher speed that some of the watercrafts achieve the ability to glide. The power of the Water Police on Lake Viljandi is not valid because it is not a navigable body of water, but the Environmental Inspectorate has no competence to measure the speed of watercraft. This means that there is no equipment and methodology. That is why there is a situation where speed limits are not held accountable. Here we can only recommend to the mayor to create different areas for different interest groups on the lake or to prohibit certain types of and certain types of internal combustion engines from flying on Lake Viljandi. Consideration could also be given to the transfer of restrictions and supervisory powers to local authorities. Generally speaking, water traffic rules need to be modernised, as both instruments and expectations of the justification of environmental decisions have changed. Today, the 30 km per hour limit does not satisfy the owners of the vessels on the one hand; on the other hand, fishermen are not satisfied. The wishes of landowners and holidaymakers must be taken into account. This uniform speed of watercraft on all water bodies does not satisfy anyone. This approach should be based on the location of the water body. But the prerequisite is that there is some wisdom on how to proceed according to Estonia's circumstances, a survey should be ordered and the regulations of water traffic then reviewed. The Environmental Board, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, is planning the preparation of the study's initial task, but this study depends primarily on financial possibilities. In particular, according to the Office of the Environmental Inspectorate Viljandi, the Mayor and the Local Security Commission are thinking about banning jet ski on Lake Viljandi. If I sum up this story in any way now, I do not think it is very practical for the Minister for the Environment of a country to try to divide rowers, rowers and jet skiers into separate zones on a lake in a county town. I think this is a perfectly reasonable function of local government. However, if such challenges are already accepted in order to try to distribute water to everyone, I think it would also be perfectly normal for local authorities to have supervisory powers and the Environmental Inspectorate to actually be committed to monitoring environmental problems. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U156	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U157	Thank you, Minister, for a very thorough answer. I share your view that it should actually be dealt with by the local government or the mayor. But why did we even address the Minister? It is precisely because the residents of Viljandi have not received exhaustive answers. I wanted to say it in line. But thank you very much for your answer and we hope that the mayor and the head of the local government will find a solution to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U158	I've also met representatives of Viljandi Council. Indeed, we have discussed whether this could not be the competence of a local government leader rather than the competence of a rural governor. Not because there would be a problem with the maybe in the future there wouldn't be such a professional, but that's the question of local life, which assumes that people are responsible for their decisions and can arrange everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U159	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U160	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I wonder if the Environmental Inspectorate is allowed to check the watercraft driver or if it has taken beer, wine or other stronger drink.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U161	Thanks! I don't think it's in his jurisdiction. I don't know, but I don't think it's his jurisdiction. I'm sure a cop could do that. You've been working on all kinds of drafts and arguing about how sober you have to be to be on the water. I say it should be sober.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U162	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? March Sults, don't you? There's no call. We're done answering the fifth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U163	Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the last item on the agenda. After the hammer strike of the President of the sitting, it is possible to register for speaking in a free microphone. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U164	Honourable manager! Honourable colleagues! I'm lucky to finish the first day of this season, maybe. I want to say today an obituary to Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. What we haven't done together! Ligi and I have not done the kindergarten pay, we have not done the school support staff's pay, which is why 23000 children with special educational needs need need need this service, but it is not necessary. Again, we have not done so. School food, the last group of kindergarten food, which means that 29% of children live in either relative or absolute poverty, it is not important and we have not done so. Breaches of the financing model of elite schools when tuition fees were introduced through non-profit institutions, this is not important and we did not do it. Well, fixing the school network, we did it, we joined the force, we settled everything, but still we didn't listen, we did it, we shut it down, and the way it came out doesn't matter. We didn't do the private school law, we accepted some kind of surrogate that doesn't work, but then what? That is how I have come to the last point that we have not done together - we have not even made up the package allowance. So, Mr. Ligi, we spoke everything in Estonian, but Estonian is a complicated language, you did not understand this language, but now that you are a foreign minister, you must speak foreign language. Maybe the language is more accurate and better. Good luck to you! We're with you. We, the schoolworkers, the students, the parents, the mothers, the fathers, the uncles, the aunts, we're with you. All this year we've been working hard, and now we're starting over. Welcome, new Minister of Education. The king is dead, may the king live! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U165	Thank you. Colleagues Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U166	Thank you for the floor. Indeed, as the previous speaker said, we have done nothing. Today, farmers came here to the castle of Toompea to protest. We discussed life with them and reached a common conclusion that 25 years have been an independent Estonia called a re-independence Estonia, and during this 25 years there have been countless transfers of petitions, meetings, picpets, etc. They began after Marju Lauristin's social ministry came to demand a higher allowance and immediately continued with farmers' labels, which have lasted for more than 20 years. Nothing has changed, the Estonian state has not turned to farmers with a face. Tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen and those who may be watching our session via the Internet, at 1 p.m., representatives of the Association of Estonian Tenants will come to Toompea. In 25 years, we have done nothing for those who lost their legitimate homes in the course of an unjust property reform. Tomorrow they will come here to hand over 5,000 signatures, a petition that should come to the Riigikogu on the basis of the petition law. These are letters of protest with an interest in what has been done and what is being done to remedy the injustice that has been done to the forced tenants. These people lived peacefully in their homes, went to the singing field to express themselves and sing, stood in the Baltic Way and were happy to have a new life and freedom. But when this freedom arrived, Estonia's first governments, not the first government, but from another government, especially Mart Laar's governments, began to bombard these people with letters: go away from your home, you have received it illegally, you live in the house of the former owner. These people, including me, had never heard of the previous owners. I was born in the house of Forest Street, where I lived with my mother and father until my father died, when he heard that in the course of the property reform he had to leave home with his family, where he had lived for nearly half a century. We have to support each other. Perhaps tomorrow we will succeed in handing over these letters, and perhaps we will also succeed in getting this tenant's concern into procedure, a request that the Estonian state show mercy, that the Estonian government, together with young Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, who is currently fighting ministers and has forgotten the everyday habits of the presidential election, take pity and begin to deal with this issue. In short, some 100,000 people suffered during the property reform. A hundred thousand people either lost their homes or lost their relatives and loved ones. The lives of hundreds of thousands of people have been ruined and the Estonian state has watched it on 25 years. We have intermittent Chancellors of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice, who is currently in office, has said that this issue has expired. The previous Chancellor of Justice said that the people have already accepted this injustice. These were the quotations from memory. We can't accept that. We cannot accept this, because we must be solidarity-based, as we should have been solidarity-based with farmers today. But, dear people, who we sit in this hall, we saw that, apart from the farmers, only a hundred people had come to Toompea Castle. The Estonian people do not care what is happening in the country. Why does this not matter to the Estonian people? But only because both the mainstream media and the Estonian government say that everything is fine, don't whine, work, and then love will come. But we know that the Tammsaare quote should be read: 'But love did not come. ' For the love of Estonia to come, we should stand here on the platform and in this hall we should continue to be good. Thanks for getting me to talk! Maybe in 25 years, someone will come here and remind me of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U167	Thank you. My colleague Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U168	Mr President, few brave colleagues. I wanted to talk to you about those milk bottles that looked more like cemetery candles. 10,000 cemetery candles, written on each of them by the names of "Must," "Punik," "Roos," or any other meat combinae that traveled over the last few years from the names of almost 10,000 cows. I am not going to talk about the swine plague that is crawling all over Estonia. But as a rural man, it was very painful to watch these bottles. It was very painful to see 101 tractors last year. The farmers came here with great hopes, but they only got paid with a finger, two or three million. The 70 million, which the Estonian Government, in particular, the governments of Taavi Rõivas, owe to farmers, are still outstanding to this day. As far as experts have explained, Estonia is the only country in the European Union where the number of dairy cows and, moreover, the number of dairy cows with excellent breeding characteristics has decreased. This is the result of this stubborn attitude that we know better how to do. I mean the position of the current government. As we move on earth and talk to keepers, whether those with only 50 dairy cows in the herd or those with 200 or more animals in the herd are depressed. Nobody's counting on Toompea anymore. As to the fact that few people were on the field today, I say that when our people here in Toompea allowed farmers only halfway to the square, on the other side the cars could be parked (I did not put my car there), there is no good sign either. I think dairy cows are much more important than our cars to scramble here. But it's really getting depressed. In fact, it's a sign of rural extinction. I don't want to talk about administrative reform right now, but many of the municipalities that are negotiating now are only doing it out of fear that they will be forced to put them together. What does that mean? It is that, on the one hand, the electoral body will be much smaller during the next presidential elections and it will be much easier to influence. But in fact, it also means that if five thousand-dollar municipalities are put together, five schools will not remain, five community houses will not be preserved, and five libraries will not remain. Returning to today, the 10,000 cemetery candles, each bearing the name of a cow, it must be said that it is very sad that it is unlikely to matter to anyone. The president walked by, I sent him. Yeah, he was talking about how he drank milk from Pajumäe farm. So what? The caravan goes on. Two governments of Taavi Clothes have already spit in the face of the peasants, I think it's happening right now. We can bet, but I don't think farmers will see the $70 million we owe farmers, at least during this government. Today, people were brought to the attention of the city people, including the fact that there are some cows out there that give milk. Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U169	This is not possible within a free microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U170	In any case, as Ants Laaneots has said, our boys' bones are thin because they don't drink milk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-12_U171	Thank you. There's no more calls. Thank you, colleagues. Today's session is closed. I'll see you tomorrow morning. Closure of the sitting at 6.44 p.m.
