ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu, for the second time! We will begin the first working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, Happy New Year to all of you! Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates five draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the Aviation Act. Secondly, the draft law on the organisation of the energy economy. Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in the processing of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Copyright Act. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Bar Act. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law on atmospheric air protection and the approval of the decision of the Riigikogu 'The National Development Plan for the Use of Stones 2016 to 2030'. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of these drafts in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U3	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I also wish you a happy continuing year! But as we all saw, this year did not start well for the disabled. We know that overnight the prices for leasing aids went up a number of times, while the Ministry had sent out a message on the last day of last year about how the new year would improve the availability of aids and speed up the whole process, as the matter was no longer dealt with by the county authorities, but by the ministry itself. Of course, it was not about price increases or mega-accounts. Minister of Social Security Margus Tsahkna didn't really know at first. He blamed Invaru OÜ, who rents and sells aids, and advised not to pay any bills at all. That's right, that was the Minister's recommendation. Is that reasonable? It is a good thing that tomorrow the Social Affairs Committee will be discussing aids, but we learned that Minister Tsahkna is not going to be there. We are discussing a minister's regulation, and the minister does not want to come to the meeting! That's what they told us. That is why the Centre Party Group decided to make an inquiry in order to find out from Minister Tsahkna what was going on, why the system was changed so that it meant an increase in prices for all those who use and have to use a little more expensive means than average, and why these issues were still not communicated to the people earlier, although in fact many rental invoices had been made in advance for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U5	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present an inquiry to Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Kristen Michal. It concerns the provision of ferry traffic services between the mainland and the major islands in the period from 2016 to 2017. The website of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications states very nicely that the purpose of the state transport policy is to ensure comfortable, safe, fast and sustainable mobility for citizens and businesses. One of the objectives of national regional policy is to ensure the provision of quality services in peripheral countries. According to good public administration practice, it is natural that the service offered to its citizens will not deteriorate but improve. The ferry connection to Saaremaa and Hiiumaa received more attention in the second half of last year, when the contract was awarded to the subsidiaries of the Port of Tallinn as a result of the public procurement. Marko Raid, acting Chairman of the Management Board of Tallinn Port, stated on 3 September 2015 that if a worse scenario were to take place, the option of temporarily renting another ship would be considered. The board member of the Port of Tallinn therefore has reservations about the deadlines for the completion of the ships and the provision of ferry traffic services. In total, we have eight questions. The most important ones are the construction contracts, whether they have been done correctly. We know that two ships are being completed in Poland, two in Turkey. We know that quality of service is already deteriorating, but ticket prices have increased. Ultimately, we are interested in the extent to which the taxpayer's financial resources are saved on the basis of the contract with the new operator of the ferry service, as well as whether we can maintain the quality of the service at a sufficiently good level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U7	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! The situation in our social protection system, which became public last week, i.e. the situation following the change in the system of leasing aids, which has just been well described here by my colleague, Mrs Tuus-Laul, is also of understandable concern to the seven members of the Free Party. We have also formulated our questions for discussion. I think that the esteemed Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, is very pleased that he can report to us in a few weeks' time and with double depth how the problems that have arisen last week have been solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U9	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U10	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, A little more than a month ago, the Free Party Group asked Auditor General Alar Karis about the bankruptcy of Estonian Air. Coming in to the Auditor General, who announced that they were carrying out a parallel audit on the same subject and that it would be completed a little later, we withdrew the previous inquiry and will now hand over a new enquiry on the subject so that the Auditor General can also present this audit in response to the inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U11	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U12	Mr President, good representatives of the people, a successful and wise year for all of us. On behalf of seven members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I am pleased to present an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. There are five issues in the inquiry and these concern, in particular, the promotion of interest education in natural sciences, precision and technology at the Ministry of Education and Research. Why such an inquiry now? Indeed, the promotion of natural, precision and technology sciences has been incorporated into all our important strategy papers on education and science. The Ministry of Education and Research has also drawn up a very precise agenda for the Science and Technology Pact. At the same time, it is known that as of 1 January 2016, the Ministry's position as adviser responsible for the promotion of science, technology and science has been consolidated. All our questions concern the promotion of this area of interest education, what is going on in the Ministry of Education and Research, and who will be responsible for promoting this area in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U13	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted six drafts and five inquiries. All of them will be delivered on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are currently 90 members of the Riigikogu, missing 11. Dear Riigikogu, we need to confirm the agenda for the week. Does Helir-Valdor Seeder have a question about the agenda? No, it's not. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the weekly agenda. Please take a stand and vote. There are 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there is no one against, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U14	First of all, we have an inquiry on our agenda by the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamm, Dmitri Dmitriev, Andrei Novikov, Vladimir Velman, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Märt Sults, Mailis Reps, Toomas Vitsut, Peeter Ernits, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Must, Erki Savisaar, Jüri Ratas, Olga Ivanova and Rein Ratas. Tarmo Tamm, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U15	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chancellor! Inquiry is unwarranted about a waiting period in the event of a border crossing. From 1 August 2011, the procedure for crossing the border between Estonia and Russia changed. Under the new regime, a common border crossing queue information system was established, called GoSwift, which is used at the Narva-Ivangorod, Koidula - Kunichina Gora and Luhamaa-šumilkino road border crossing points. This means that when travelling to Russia, a person wishing to cross a border has an obligation to acquire a place in the electronic order of the border, for which a payment of 1 euro and 30 cents is required via the online environment. In addition to the queue booking fee for border crossings, a waiting period fee is to be paid depending on the waiting area and the vehicle category. Thanks to a functioning electronic border ranking information system, border crossings often do not have a queue or a need to use waiting area services. It would be possible to cross the border without passing the waiting area, but the situation at the border crossing point is the opposite. A car intended for a waiting area can only be exited if a waiting period has been paid, even though the services have not been used. However, the current law prohibits charging for the use of a waiting area for border crossings when the waiting area service for border crossings is not used, but the vehicles must be directed to the border crossing point without passing through the waiting area. We have two questions about this for the Chancellor of Justice. It would be good if you read these questions and then give us the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U16	The inquiry must be answered by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U17	Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much for this question. In fact, there were two questions. The first question can be answered briefly and simply, the second one is more legally complicated, so thank you again! The first question for the respondents to the inquiry was: 'The Tartu Administrative Court granted a cross-border complaint in a situation where the Police and Border Guard Board wrongly moved a person to a waiting area before border control operations were carried out, requiring payment without providing services. Is the judgment of the Administrative Court of Tartu a victory achieved by just one person, or does it extend to anyone who has been illegally taken without providing waiting services? " If a person goes to court in the event of a violation of his or her rights, and if he or she wins in court, or is found to have been violated, these consequences apply only to him or her. They do not automatically apply to other persons. I note that the judgment of the Tartu Administrative Court of 5 November 2015 has not yet entered into force, as it was appealed to the District Court on 11 December last year and no decision of the Circuit Court is yet available. When it comes and comes into force, the legal situation will be different. The second question: 'The State Court has repeatedly stressed that ensuring the border regime is a constitutionally state task guaranteed by the State. In these circumstances, the State has delegated an administrative contract to private legal entities in charge of organising the border regime. Do you consider that the imposition of illegal waiting allowances has violated the fundamental rights of citizens when leaving the country has essentially become subject to a fee? ' This is a question that I have discussed very thoroughly with colleagues, with those who dealt with this matter in the Chancellor of Justice office in 2010, when Narva's problems were at the initiative of the Chancellor of Justice at the Supreme Court, with those who dealt with the matter in 2012, when a new organisation had already entered into force and new problems had arisen when both the aspect of the standard check and the Ombudsman's dispute were at issue, as well as with colleagues who have been added in the meantime. The councillor himself went to these border crossings to see for himself how it works. We worked through border crossing statistics to see if there were really such cars, how many at which border crossing points, etc. On the other hand, of course, we discussed legal theoretic problems. To sum up this discussion, the answer is as follows. Do both drivers and truck drivers wishing to cross the border need to be guaranteed decent conditions, i.e. the possibility of washing, eating, using the internet, while waiting for border crossings? The answer is yes. Does this have to be done by the state and by the taxpayer? The answer is no. Can, in principle, the creation of these waiting areas be granted to a private person and the payment of reasonable fees for their use? The answer is yes. However, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said today in depth, charging such fees is only conceivable if there is a legislative mandate to do so, which will allow an assessment to be made of the justification and legality of the charges imposed. There is a norm now. The Legislator has set limits, specific amounts will be agreed in an administrative agreement. Now this question, which has been repeatedly referred to by Inara Luigas. We've just heard reports of real life. This problem really exists as to whether the fee or the fee for using the waiting area may be charged to people who do not actually stop in the area or, more specifically, do not stop for longer than is necessary to pay the fee and receive the paper on it. As was the case in the case where the discussion in the Tartu Administrative Court ended with a victory, even though the decision has not yet entered into force. My personal assessment is that you can't. This is also said by the legislator, since § 83 (4) of the State Border Act clearly states that if a person does not use a waiting area service, that fee must not be charged. Consequently, for example, at the Narva road border crossing point, where there are regular queues for both cars and trucks, it is necessary to organise car parking, check the identity of the car and its driver, i.e. a license plate check, and direct the car to the border crossing, it is all understandable, it is necessary. At Koidula or Luhamaa border crossing, for example, the queue of passenger cars is not always, as happened then, in April 2013, when a person travelled through the waiting area because there were no cars or people there, but then he was sent back from the border because he had not paid any fees for using the waiting area. That is where the court settlement came from, which said that the law provided for a condition that if the service was not actually needed, the five euros would not be taken. That's what I think it is. But the final position here is not open to me at the moment, because it is in court. It cannot be ruled out that the District or Supreme Court takes a different position. In short, it seems that the problem may not be the rule of law, but the implementation of the law. It is because of this that the councillors asked both the Ministry of the Interior and the keepers of the waiting areas whether it is conceivable that this provision of law will ever be implemented in practice, that the fee will not be charged if the services are not used. They said they didn't. So it's an empty norm. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U18	Questions for the Chancellor of Justice. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U19	Thank you, manager. Thank you, Chancellor, first of all, for your very meaningful answers. I think you have come to the very right conclusion: if you do not consume the service, you do not have to pay for it. But I'm going to ask the legal side. What will happen if, for example, the circuit court gives that citizen the right? Is it then possible to recover these charges ex post?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U20	No, it's not. This decision shall apply only to the person who has applied to the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U21	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U22	Thank you. Dear waitress, Here's the question. The judgment may be such that the person is right and should not have paid the fee. But we have been told that these agreements, which are now, will remain in force until spring. How do you feel about whether, according to the judgment, these agreements are going to be amended immediately or are they still valid for as long as is currently foreseen?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U23	Thank you for your question. Yes, these administrative contracts are also in my briefcase, which in turn is in the bag, and they are entirely there. Changing these contracts is within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, of course, if the other party agrees. However, it should be stressed that if the law says that if the waiting area service was not needed, there is no need to pay for the use of this service, i.e. not to use it, then the law must be complied with. The treaty can't see anything else going on here either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U24	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U25	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! At some point, the State tried to solve the problem: the Ministry of the Interior signed a contract with a private company to invest in it. But now it turns out that this service does not really need to be consumed. In what legal context will the investment of the company that was supposed to invest under the contract and who had the hope that it would recover the investment? If this service is not needed and the law also says that if it is not consumed, there is no need to pay the fee, so what is the expectation of the company that has invested in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U26	Thank you! That's another great question. However, it is likely that this is in a sense a risk for the undertaking itself. After all, the situation that these waiting areas are not needed at all has not arisen. More time would be needed to answer this question thoroughly. There would be no speculation at the moment without further preparation. At first glance, however, these waiting areas still seem to be justified because the queues of trucks are everywhere, they are in Narva, Luhamaa and also in Koidula. Rather, it is a question of those moments when there are no vehicles in the passenger car waiting area, it is possible to drive straight through it, and there is no cheating in that sense, either, to expect this emptiness to come out of the waiting area, which would once again have been a situation that has been resolved very well and rightly, in principle, in the interests of everyone. There isn't one either. In these cases, this exception, which is provided for by law, should apply, but for some reason it does not apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U27	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I thought you said there was a law, but it was being violated. Is there anyone who can put an end to this violation, or does everything go on the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U29	Thank you! The Administrative Court of Tartu already made its decision on 5 November last year, currently examining the legality of this decision by the District Court. If the judgment comes into force, it will be much clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U30	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U31	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Your Honor, Chancellor! Have I understood your answer correctly that if I have electronically booked a time for border crossings and there is a green light on the border, then I can drive straight to the border and do not have to go through this waiting area and border workers have no right to send me back on the pretext that I have not been in the waiting area?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U32	In this respect, Tartu Administrative Court's judgment is paragraph 27, which explains, among other things, that if there is actually no other way to reach the border than to pass the same waiting area but not to stop there, the court considers that the fee should not be charged.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U33	No further questions. Thank you, Chancellor Ülle Madise! I'm opening negotiations. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U34	Minister and President of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! The people's resentment for having to cross the border and pay for it is, of course, understandable to me and the entire Social Democratic Party. For years, this issue has been dealt with, but fortunately, the solution already seems to be there. For many, it may be known that the Social Democrats are organising county visits all year round, where we meet local people who can share their concerns with us. We will make sure that these problems, whether they are big or small, are resolved. During county visits, we have also visited border areas and had an overview of what was happening. On the ground I went personally, and I have also raised the need to seek a solution to this problem in the Committee on Legal Affairs. That is the same problem that prompted the Centre Party to make an inquiry. The question of the remuneration for the use of the waiting area has been on the agenda for a long time. Of course, I also resent it. After all, the state apparatus could be more efficient. It is understandable to everyone that waiting areas are designed to ensure that the border crossing takes place in a way that is comfortable for everyone and does not create frustration and resentment. Obviously, the aim is to ensure an unordered border crossing. This objective must be fully pursued and not hindered. Years ago, by law, we wanted to ensure that the border crossing would be convenient and quick. We have written in the law that there must be no charge for the use of a waiting area when crossing borders if no service is actually used there. However, it has been done, and it cannot continue, and here we are all in agreement. No one wants to pay or should pay for something he hasn't used. The Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, also issued an order to the Minister of the Interior in his day that such unlawful conduct should be brought to an end. Unfortunately, so far, we have not been able to find a magic wand to improve the situation. Why it has not been done or why it has not happened is the responsibility of the Ministers of the Interior, the present and the previous, who should explain it. Of course, we have always wanted to improve the situation. Thus both the current composition of the Riigikogu in my person and the previous composition of the Riigikogu in the person of Inara Luigas have tried to find an effective solution. Finally, it looks like there's been a breakthrough. The law amending the State Border Act, the Police and Border Guard Act and the State Border Act, the Customs Act and the Police and Border Guard Act, which regulates the crossing of the state border, has been adopted. As the administrative contracts currently in force will soon be concluded, they will be reviewed and the new procurement conditions will regulate the possibility that the person will not have to go through the waiting area and pay the waiting period if there is no queue at border crossings and the car owner does not want to use the waiting area service. These amendments will enter into force in May. We wish the Minister of the Interior the strength to enforce the new regulation. Here, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would also like to appeal to the Minister for the Interior to be jealous of this issue in the future. Surely we will remain very attentive to our situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U35	There's no more calls. Is there anything else the Chancellor of Justice would like to add? No, I don't. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U36	The following inquiry has been submitted by Mikhail Korb, Märt Sults, Kadri Simson, Aadu Must, Martin Repinski, Vladimir Velman, Enn Esmaa, Priit Toob, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laas, Viktor Vasilyev, Siret Kotka, Erki Savisaar and Andrei Novikov. On behalf of the heirs, Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! On behalf of my colleagues, I will make an inquiry into Estonian Air. You may remember that not so long ago, a little less than two months ago, there was a major accident with the Estonian airline, i.e. it went bankrupt. To remind you of the facts, this happened exactly on November 8, 2015. The reason was the European Commission's request and the investigation which led to the declaration that the state aid granted to the Estonian airline, which had been EUR 125,6 million, was not legal and created unequal competition. Although this amount had not been paid out in full, only EUR 84.9 million had been paid, the result was still what it was. During this period, there has been quite a lot of discussion on this subject, and as a result two new organisations have been created that deal with aviation. One of them is OÜ Transport Varahaldus and the other is AS Nordic Aviation Group, which currently operates in the same direction and according to the same principles. The way he is doing is the subject of the next question, we are not talking about it now. The main question is that almost EUR 85 million has disappeared. It was promised that Estonian Air would eventually make profits, and that was what they were doing, but the end was what it was. According to the Centre Party, the biggest mismanagement was made when the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was led by Juhan Parts, who worked there in 2007-2014. In 2011, he put Tero Taskila in charge of Estonian Air, whose activities led to the organisation's high losses, which the State had to compensate for. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, we are going to ask the Prime Minister five questions. We are counting on substantive answers and, of course, we will ask further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U38	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your inquiry on 9 November last year for the liquidation of Estonian Air. The first question: "How do you assess the activities of the government in 2010-2015 in relation to the economic activities of Estonian Air and its management? Who do you think is responsible for letting Estonian Air go bankrupt? ' I am convinced that Estonia, as a country on the verge of the European Union, must have an airline with a base station in Tallinn. This will help to ensure that people can fly back to larger European centres in the morning and back at night. EU regulations require the airline to be profitable and operate under market conditions. I would add that, on the basis of the bankruptcy of a particular state-owned company, there should be no generalisations, as it is clear that doing business is linked to risks and that the Estonian state's companies have largely been profitable, providing important support to the state budget also through dividends. The second question: 'After the attack on Estonian Air, the government set up a new aviation company called Nordic Aviation, which in its substance continues to operate in Estonian Air. However, the debts were borne by AS Estonian Air. In the language of entrepreneurs, it is a capping which, in this case, is carried out at a high national level. Is this activity and the use of taxpayers' money correct in your opinion, and what kind of example does the state set for businesses? " It is very important to know that neither the State nor the new company has taken over any assets or liabilities from Estonian Air when establishing a new company. Two companies have completely different management and supervisory boards. The board and board of the Nordic Aviation Group are responsible for ensuring the sustainability and also profitability of the new company's business. The Nordic Aviation Group was tasked with drawing up a business plan. It has been prepared by experts, it is market-based and has already been assessed by independent experts. It is true that there is some overlap in the airlines' connections, but it is clear that the operation of the airline is primarily shaped by market demand, i.e. more simply by where the people of Estonia wish to fly. There has also not been a move, even though there was a very strong public pressure, precisely because of the rules, there has not been a transfer of on-board crews from one company to another. Nordic Aviation uses the services of recruitment companies to complete on-board teams and the best candidates must be selected in the competitions organised in Estonia. I stress once again why we need an airline based in Tallinn. The impact of Estonian Air on the Estonian economy was 0.5-1% of GDP in one year. This amounts to approximately EUR 100-200 million per year. If there were no state-owned or Tallinn-based airline in Estonia, even assuming that other airlines would take over the routes, it has been estimated that no more than 50% of them would be taken over. A simple piece of work shows that the local airline will increase our economy by EUR 50 to 100 million a year. It is also important to measure the impact of the existence of an airline based in Tallinn on the sustainability of associations. Today, the competitiveness of countries is largely dependent on the existence of good associations. If, for example, our capital could not fly every day, but operated half as thinly as possible, we would lose a very significant part of our attractiveness to businesses and also as a tourist destination. I'm not just talking about visitors here, of course it's also important that our own people can fly on a schedule that is as suitable as possible. Without a local airline, passengers' flight time would be increased by an average of two hours, which would amount to 1.2 million hours a year, or 137 years in total. Of course, Estonia's accessibility would also deteriorate, which affects tourism, foreign investment and the overall competitiveness of the economy. Question 3: 'The former Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, is becoming the representative of Estonia at the European Court of Auditors, which controls the prudent use of European Union money. In your opinion, how does Juhan Parts fit into this position when Estonian Air was granted a large amount of prohibited State aid during its appointment as Minister of State? " We need to understand that aviation is a rather complex area of activity. Almost all European airlines have been in difficulty, with the exception of some low-cost airlines. The reasons have often been due to the overall economic environment, where, indeed, today the situation has slightly improved, for example, the price of fuel, which is a quarter of the airline costs, has significantly decreased. The Estonian Government has and has long held that we need an airline based in Tallinn. As I said, the existence of good connections, far from the major centres, is critical. I would therefore refrain from blaming and tagging. What would have been an alternative to these decisions must always be taken forward. If Estonian Air had not received aid from the state and had to stop its activities years ago, would the result have been more positive for the Estonian people and the company itself? I have deep doubts about that. Question 4: 'Erik Sakkov, a member of the management board of Nordic Aviation, has stressed that the new state company is not an airline but organises flights. What are the goals set by the government in relation to Nordic Aviation? Is and how is it planned to avoid errors previously made in relation to prohibited State aid? ' Estonia established a new aviation company called Nordic Aviation Group on the basis that the plans of the airline are realistic, market-based and assessed by the competent market participants. Today, for example, Lufthansa Consulting has also made an impartial assessment. The country also considered Baltic cooperation, but we believe that connecting, for example, in Riga, is not the same as direct flights. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications estimates that buying-in flights would be more expensive than owning your own company. So we considered alternatives and the creation of an airline based in Tallinn was a well-informed choice. As far as State aid is concerned, since Nordic Aviation is not a firm in difficulty, rescue and restructuring aid does not need to be applied here, nor do the guidelines applied by the Commission when analysing the Estonian Air case. So I will sum up briefly, the best guarantee that no state aid should be granted to the Nordic Aviation Group, is that the company's operating plan, the business plan is market-based at most, and the company is expected to make profits. Question 5: 'The European Commission has declared the EUR 22.6 million granted to the Latvian national airline AirBaltic legal. According to the information provided by the Latvian authorities, Estonian Air was not able to demonstrate that the aid was compatible with the internal market pursuant to Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. How much was played here by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications' poor communication with the European Commission? ' The State aid decision that Latvia has taken is not, in my opinion, linked to their more active relations with the European Commission. It can be said with certainty that Estonian officials and also politicians had very serious relations with the representatives of the European Commission in order to convince the European Commission of the legality of state aid and the necessity of Estonian Air to ensure air connections with Estonia. I can say today that the main argument put forward by the European Commission was that restructuring was not consistent throughout this period and the principle that state aid could be granted once every ten years was wrong. Estonia disagreed in these positions, but the Commission's decision is nevertheless binding on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U40	Questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U41	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I remember the years when all the local government's work involved heat, water and so on, everything that affected utilities. It has been 20 years, and some local government leaders may not remember who is providing these services on the territory of their municipality, but we are hitting the chest so that Estonia needs to have an airline. Let's look at the numbers, plus they're not, they're all negative. Let me get this straight. As long as your government works, the situation in this sphere will not change?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U42	Thank you. I do not agree with the assessment that it will not change. It does, it gets better. After all, we are all interested that the new company would literally get into the wings of the wind so that the air connections that Nordic Aviation offers would be important destinations for as many Estonian people as possible, so that Nordic Aviation could fly its fleet and develop its own brand, its own home environment, which, I believe, you probably sensed when you boarded Estonian Air in any corner of Europe. This needs to be achieved by Nordic Aviation already this year so that we can talk about Nordic Aviation as a fully operating airline. I am convinced that the situation must change for the better. Of course, the fact that Estonian Air went bankrupt is negative, no one is challenging it. However, in my opinion, we must also assess the work done to establish a new company very quickly. I'm sure it could have gone much, much worse. If, on Saturday afternoon at 4:00 p.m., the decision that Estonian Air is not able to continue flights and the next company is already serving the first passengers on Sunday morning, this is still a remarkable achievement. Will the creation of a new company always go smoothly? Of course not. But should we feel sorry for ourselves or keep our fingers crossed? I think we should keep our fingers crossed. We want to make sure that in one year, five years and ten years it will be possible to fly as conveniently as possible from Tallinn to as many places as possible. As far as the first part of your question is concerned, I, too, am of the opinion that not all companies must necessarily belong to the state. What has happened in the heat economy, for example, has certainly gone in the right direction. At the same time, the government appreciated the alternatives and came to the belief that the most realistic way to create a company based in Tallinn is by putting the state on its own shoulders. Whether this company could be wholly or partly privately owned in the future is indicated by time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U43	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U44	Prime Minister, a good year for me too! Can you perhaps remind us of the amount of all the state aid that the European Commission recognised as 'non-legime', the amount we were talking about in the end, was EUR 140 million? Can you be more specific? Who made or made a decision on State aid to Estonian Air, which was the result of a negative decision by the European Commission? I would remind you that it was the Commissioner for Competition who, by the way, called Estonia a periphery, to whom no exceptions can be granted. Please recall these two things: what exactly is the amount we are talking about, what was the non-legimate amount, and who made or made the decision that eventually bankrupted Estonian Air?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U45	Thank you. Inquiries have been made to mention these figures. Since I have not taken the exact figures with me, I assume that the figures they have submitted are accurate. The amount that was paid out was also over EUR 80 million, according to my memory. The text of the inquiry stands at 84.9 million. If you want confirmation of the exact amount of this amount, I am ready to send it to you in writing. With regard to Commissioner Vestaster's words that Estonia is a periphery, I too was disturbed by this at first speed. But when I listened to this comment in its entirety, I realized that it was not meant to be derogatory, but to the contrary. Rather, the question is that investing in transport connections between countries on the margins of Europe is of particular importance to the European Union. We have also said ourselves several times that this part of Europe must be well connected to the rest. We have used it as an argument, for example, to justify Rail Baltic; we have used it as an argument for establishing energy connections. So you can be sure that Commissioner Vestager did not want to offend Estonia in any way. That is definitely not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U46	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U47	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! We still didn't get an answer to the question. Mr Madison asked who may have decided who was responsible, the inquisitors asked who was responsible. Responsibility means that the consequences of decisions are somehow felt in their own way. Who then made these decisions to grant this State aid? You know who they are and what years those people were in office. I still have a question about what happens then. Are we gonna spread our hands, as you said, and write hundreds of millions of chimneys, or do you really have to accept some negative personal consequence for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U48	Thank you. I'm sorry I didn't answer that part of the question before. Since there were several questions, it slipped my mind. But you also know that all these decisions have been made by previous governments, you may well know these years too. Whether these decisions were right or wrong at that moment is difficult to say. In any case, we must assess that, at the time these decisions were made, they wanted to maintain air links and that if the government had not supported the company with the loan money, this company would have had to cease operating years ago. It should have done so at a time when Estonian Air's market share at Tallinn Airport was up to 40%, i.e. it was a considerable part of all flights in Estonia. We also need to understand that several of these decisions were made either during the crisis or immediately after the crisis, if the impact of the airline's decommissioning on the Estonian economy would have been much more painful than now, if this transition could still be done quite smoothly. So it is not quite the case that keeping the company alive was unambiguously negative. Yes, it cost the Estonian taxpayer, it must be acknowledged, but if we also assess the economic impact of the company, it must be said that the alternative, if it had not been, would have been even more expensive for the taxpayer. As you well know, governments cannot only make popular decisions. It is clear that the earlier governments that decided to help Estonian Air with the loan took a risk. I wouldn't condemn it as unambiguously as you want to today, otherwise Estonian Air should have stopped operating years ago. I would advise not to seek guilt or guilt at all. However, if you were looking for them, you might rather look at this period when Estonian Air very aggressively expanded its activities, not when governments tried to save a company that had suffered huge losses.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U49	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I'm coming to the point of guilt. Since the government decided to allocate these millions collectively, the responsibility is therefore collective. Do you support Juhan Parts, who may have been overly accused? Do you support sending Juhan Parts to Europe because your own party man, Andrus Ansip, who was the Prime Minister at the time, is already there? Secondly, do you feel guilty about yourself because you were a member of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U51	Thank you. No, of course, the reason why I have said that Juhan Parts is a suitable candidate for the European Audit Office is not the result of the construction that you submitted. I've been asked about Juhan Parts' match. I have said, and I am also saying, that he is responding in terms of both his qualifications and his previous work experience. If I have not been asked this question, but if you asked, for example, if Juhan Parts had ever been wrong in his long career, then who would not have. I'm sure he's lost too. Should this be an obstacle, or has he done something so bad that he should not be involved in politics in the future or aspire to international positions? Not that I know of.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U52	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! I had another question, but when I listened to you, I had a new question. I still don't get it. You say nobody's guilty, and it's an isolated incident. But when specifically asked about Juhan Parts, you say that maybe it happened, he did something wrong. Is he still guilty or not guilty? If you don't think he's guilty, then why don't you put him on this office of the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U54	Thank you. The next question raised by your colleagues will address this issue more specifically, i.e. potential candidates for the Court of Auditors. But I'll say it again. I have never set the goal of pointing the finger at anyone in this matter or tagging anyone to blame. I have also invited Members and the public to evaluate the decisions taken in this context. At the moment, it is very easy to say in retrospect that yes, on that date or on that date a mistake was made, should have been done differently. However, we must assess that if one or the other decision had not been taken, particularly with regard to granting a loan to a company, if the loan had not been granted at that time, the company would have had to cease its activities earlier and this would have had very serious consequences. In my opinion, the company had the most serious problems when it was very aggressively expanding. It was, in hindsight, a strategy that didn't justify itself. We can say that. Whether it should have been foreseen whether there were decisions that turned out to be wrong afterwards and whether it should be primarily the Bureau, the Council or someone else, it should be appreciated by everyone. It is not my place to be a judge on this matter. It is my business as a head of government to help the company that will replace Estonian Air, namely a new airline based in Tallinn, get started as smoothly as possible. This, I think, is many times more important than just tagging and blaming someone. I understand that it is politically very exciting and attractive for you, but if you look at the whole picture in a very rational way, I am not sure that you would have made different decisions at that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U55	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U56	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! I will start by saying that it is very clear from what you are saying that we have a clear systemic deficiency in the management of state companies, a systemic error. The government is not responsible, the board is not responsible, the council is not responsible. Well, it blew up a couple hundred million! Happens, worse happens. With this attitude, public enterprises cannot work normally and successfully. I would ask the government that you run to draw very clear conclusions for the future. Let's go. My question is whether the new airline, which, according to my information, has already introduced some EUR 50 million, will continue to operate until exactly that moment, until you are Prime Minister, or will also end up either in bankruptcy or in some other way, because you no longer need to go to Brussels.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U57	Thank you. First of all, when I answered earlier questions, I said that it would be inappropriate to make generalisations of other state-owned companies on the basis of the economic performance of one of the companies which has been engaged in international competition. Most of the companies belonging to the Estonian state are profitable, they have earned very decent dividends and therefore, and for many other reasons, it can be said that they are well-managed. You asked how long the Nordic Aviation Group could operate. For a very long time, I hope. The government entrusted the company with the task of drawing up a business plan such that the company would make profits and be able to operate air connections on a sustainable basis. I very much hope that both Estonian consumers and our foreign guests will embrace this company, fly on this company's trips and thus contribute to Estonia's direct connection to their most strategic destinations in the future. In my opinion, as I said before, for example, flying through Riga is no comparable alternative to a direct flight. Anyone who has had to fly with a lot of connections knows from his own hands that a direct flight has a very strong advantage, both in the business segment and for holiday passengers. We also remember very well that during the crisis, a number of international airlines that were busy flying here during the boom stopped flying to Tallinn. Therefore, we must take into account that basing in Tallinn is one of the factors of success that is necessary to ensure the continuity of air connections. If such rational considerations are taken into account, we must say that we will also need an airline based in Tallinn in the future. Does this airline have to remain 100% national forever? That's not for sure. I think that alternatives can also be seriously considered in the future. However, it is important that this company can start up normally, be able to serve just as much and hopefully in the future more air passengers than Estonian Air did.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U58	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U59	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! There is certainly an emotional desire to have their own airlines, but, as we know, air traffic is very precisely regulated, the possibilities of state aid are limited. In my opinion, the European Commissioner for Competition, Margrethe Vestager, said this position very well. He just felt sorry for how much Estonian taxpayers spend their money there, and Estonian Air had to be stopped. Why do you think Nordic Aviation should do better? What's gotten better in the world of flying? I've heard that SAS has taken over almost all the Stockholm routes in Tallinn, probably 46 flights a week, and AirBaltic is doing its competing line next to it. What gives you the assurance that this money won't go up the chimney again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U60	Thank you. I object to the first part of your question, because it is not an emotional desire. In particular, it is a rational wish that Estonia would have an airline based in Tallinn. I have already mentioned several times the bill, which is an expert review of how much the airline based in Tallinn adds to the Estonian economy every year. This is a significant amount and this is a very rational argument. On the other hand, yes, each of us is a person and there are certain emotional arguments why I also like to fly an Estonian airline. I'm not ashamed to admit it. In several parts of the world, as we boarded the Estonian Air, we felt that you were almost home now. My wish is for the Nordic Aviation planes to be exactly the same in the future. All those Estonian people who fly home from abroad fly with Nordic Aviation, feeling that they are already almost home. As far as Commissioner Vestaster is concerned, I dare to doubt that he would have said that he was sorry or that was the main argument. The European Commission is following the rules very closely and in a timely manner. It's not a question of emotion. Rather, they still assessed whether the State aid was compatible with international competition rules. As we found out, they didn't think so. As regards what you expect from Nordic Aviation, one very serious argument as to why the Nordic Aviation Group has a better starting position is that the company does not have the loan burden that Estonian Air had to carry because of the heavy losses during the crisis and also during the very rapid expansion. This is not the case for the new company and the starting position is better by the interest costs alone. I very much want to hope that this will be accompanied by an experience, not perhaps by specific individuals, but at least by a collective experience of the lessons learned by the previous company. Wise are those who can learn from the mistakes of others. I hope the leaders of Nordic Aviation have the wisdom.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U61	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your answers, you said several times that it was precisely this great expansion that was fatal to the company. However, can you tell us what the biggest cost item was for Estonian Air, whether it was aircraft leasing, whether it was labour costs, fuel, other operating resources or any other expense? So why did Estonian Air actually need this state aid, which cost was the highest?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U63	Thank you. It is very difficult to assess, as even the most profitable airlines make considerable costs for fuel, fleet, personnel. The costs in themselves do not make any of the companies loss-making. But if we look at the economic indicators of the company in history, indeed, at a time when the company was expanding the fastest, but also during the crisis, we saw an increase in losses. Whether and how direct conclusions can be drawn from this is up to everyone. I believe that if a new company starts now, it will probably have no reason to acquire so many different brands of aircraft. They'll probably find more lessons to learn. But to argue that this or the other factor eventually became decisive that the company's losses became too high is a little more complicated. For this purpose, the format of the questions and answers here may be too short.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U64	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You have stressed on several occasions today that the new airline has received the task of being profitable and successful. Didn't Estonian Air have, interesting, this kind of mission, he had some other tasks or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U66	Thank you. Estonian Air must also have had the stated objectives of the board and the board of directors in its own time. But it is also true that, as a country, we are now, in any case, richer by experience. It's perfectly clear. We now know with certainty that the country's ability to support an airline operating in international competition is very limited. In itself, there is nothing unprecedented about subsidising public transport. The Estonian state subsidises train, ferry and bus traffic. If, for example, we in Parliament's Committee on Economic Affairs were to hold a debate on whether, in principle, it would be economical for us to also subsidise air links, then it would probably be possible to find those in the coalition and opposition who would support this idea and for purely rational reasons. But we now know with absolute certainty, on the basis of the European Commission's decision, that there are very limited opportunities for this. We must therefore be even more precise in formulating the goals of the company; we must be even more attentive in order to avoid all kinds of mistakes. Then there is the hope that the next company will succeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U67	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U68	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, by experience, we are indeed richer, but society is almost 100 million euros poorer. There were earlier signals from the European Commission that such a funding scheme would not comply with the rules and would not be acceptable. At the same time, the Latvian airline also received funding from the state, but there it was able to formalise it in such a way that the experience gained did not become so expensive for society and the taxpayer. Is there really such a lack of skills and knowledge in Estonia, and the people who made these decisions were not up to their responsibilities? Do you really think it's impossible to fix this afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U69	Thank you. No, I wouldn't draw that kind of conclusions. However, these are two different companies with different strategies. By thus simplifying the conclusions, we would in any case do too much. I would therefore abstain from such simplifications.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U70	Thank you, Prime Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U71	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It would have been weird if I hadn't come here. I would first of all like to thank the Centre Party for its questioning, as well as all the other political groups and also the Prime Minister. I think that this debate has been much more balanced than when this message came unpleasant to everyone. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U72	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U73	I understand I have time limits here. What the Prime Minister has said, I largely agree. But I'm going to go over some important emphasis. Of course, you can crucify me too, but do so as is appropriate for Estonians and Europeans. First of all, we will clarify the facts, the choices the decision-makers had, the interests of the state and the negative and positive effects of one or the other option. They should be very clear. If it is found that either the Juhan Parts or the Andrus Ansip government made bad and bad decisions for the state, then kill us or kill us for me, but we didn't make such decisions. I say first of all my deep conviction that, since 2009, we did a great deal of maximum, based on our best understanding, which is important to the Estonian state. The first question that has sounded: why did you let the company go bankrupt? Estonian Air was bankrupt around the end of 2009, when I was approached by a representative of the then big owner SAS, SAS, who was then in fact 67% with a small private company in Estonia and said that they were unable to comply with the contract for the purchase of new aircraft concluded before the economic crisis. It was a very difficult contract. I can't go into the details, but what really meant was the company was bankrupt. Now, during the economic crisis, the government had a choice whether or not to save it. I remember that we also discussed this in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in relation to the state budget, as well as in the full chamber of the Riigikogu and received broad support. If I look today at what the government is being crucified for, there is much more of that voice that let the market show what the market is doing. At the time, the majority believed that the company had to be rescued. So this was the bankruptcy place. The question now is whether the right or wrong decisions were taken over the five years since 2009. I also assure you that there must have been some mismanagement, it is absolutely clear, it was probably too optimistic to predict the market. But it's not right to talk like that when you say nicely that they were ambitious, I don't know, world conquest plans. No, it wasn't. The new company has the same problem: how can it achieve a critical mass so that such overheads can compete in the market at all? It has been asked whether we need an airline from our home airport at all. It's a trick question. We have to explain more to Brussels, we have worked very hard to do this, we have put forward written proposals, etc., so that what the common aviation market, which Europe has built for 20 years, is not what we actually need strategically. What are our strategic problems in Estonia? There's two of them. How will the country's strategic competitiveness in aviation be measured? Since there is little time in terms of the mobility factor, I am not going to talk about this for a long time, I think we are the last in the European Union, and there are different rankings in the competitiveness rankings in the world, and we are 130 when we look at the role of air connections in the infrastructure. This is our strategic position. It is not about low-cost airlines, it is about high-quality airlines. The quality of the air service is that in the morning there and in the evening back. If we are thinking about Europe, where would our investors, cultural workers, visitors, scientists and everyone who wants to do something with Estonia fly so that they can get there in the morning and back in the evening? Is this a normal Europe where the market does not really lead to us flying to Berlin, Paris, London, Brussels, Warsaw? We all understand that today we can do this across Riga or Helsinki, no problem. But is this a normal Europe? Has it been converted into Europe, converted into Eastern and Western Europe? I'm sorry, I'm not! This market distortion or market failure must be dealt with in some way. Now we come to these state aid rules. Take out the very ambitious proposals that I have drawn up, with very strong support from small countries, France too came up with the idea of changing the rules on State aid. This should now be dealt with further. It's a lesson. One charge was that the government was ugly cynical in violation of state aid rules. It wasn't like that! In making all the decisions, we were guided by a very clear principle of the market investor principle. Yes, so the government was still based on the market investor principle. We did it in good faith. If we look at these business plans, then, yes, maybe they are too optimistic, but they were done in cooperation with private investors. First, SAS, second, Swedbank. Two main decisions were taken. What happened during their execution? Come on, there's a lot going on in life. Perhaps you have noticed that Erik Sakkov has said, as early as the second week, that the plan needs to be adjusted. It's a reality. In my opinion, the key question is: if the Ansip Government had not disbanded, perhaps it was time for it to disband at that point, could we then have shown the political will of the European Commission that we are actually right? I know they're talking about how the Competition Directorate works behind four glass doors. I know what's going on behind those four glass doors. Could we have shown that will? I don't know that. This is not a reproach for my successor to Urve Palo or Taavi Clothes, because that is a difficult question. But my heart is still in pain. I listened to Jan Palmér's reply that the company was made sustainable after all. I read AirBaltic's decision to look at it, the airBaltic case is very important because they brought dumping to this market first, especially for Latvian taxpayers' money, but all the rules and beautiful things that airBaltic has to broadcast in 30 seconds, too, but all these rules are interpreted on a competitive basis. I think the problem remains. When we talk about those responsible, of course I am ready, say, to be responsible for all of this, but if we want to act Europeanly, then we need to clarify the facts and causal links and only then evaluate them. For my sake, we could make air connections, after all, is such an important issue for Parliament's special committee and work from morning to evening to make it properly clear. If we decide on people and such important issues in the Republic of Estonia in such a jesting tone, I think that is not the kind of Estonia we want. But today's debate gives me courage. Once again, I would like to thank the heirs and all the others who have participated in this! I think this debate has been balanced. We just have to keep working on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U74	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U75	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Juhan Parts had a great performance, but unfortunately he repeated a number of things that we also heard from Prime Minister Clothes. Unfortunately, it didn't satisfy the critics, I have to say. As we spoke once before, there is a small difference between who is guilty and who is responsible. It may be someone who makes some kind of decision, but somewhere in this hierarchy there are people whose job is to make sure that so many mistakes don't come in at the same time. In this case, it is quite obvious that no one in Estonia bears the responsibility for wasting or losing hundreds of millions of euros. Secondly, on the basis of this question, too, we have not had one question to discuss today on this subject, particularly the optimistic view that the new established airline could also escape a similar fate. We asked if it wasn't a sit-down. Taavi Rõivas said that, oh, no, the new company does not take any obligations with it and starts with a clean slate. That's what this is about when debts are left in one place and starting at another place is a clean slate for the same activity, too, by the way, for taxpayers' money. This assignment is done by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, having first created a huge bankruptcies nest, claiming that no one is responsible and there are no culprits, because it was necessary to make difficult choices. I have a question. Why couldn't the losses in 2009 be left to SAS? Why did the Estonian taxpayer have to worry about taking over this bankrupt company? Maybe it was such a difficult decision. The best was hoped for, but it was a critical moment when the wrong decision was made, and the consequences of this wrong decision will come today. There was a transfer of responsibilities that could actually have been calmly left to others. Some say we can't go without a national airline. First of all, it seems to me that Nordic Aviation is not national. There is not even the word 'Estonia' inside, which bothers me personally, and secondly, it is not by any standard the national airline that has its own planes and runs some sort of systematic airline policy. Do we not now have contact with London, Berlin or Milan or with half the world's other low cost airlines? Does anyone really think that if we lose our line, we can no longer fly between Brussels twice a day? If this really happens, wouldn't it be cheaper to subside this line? It'd be a lot cheaper than maintaining an airline, and then wrestling your hand that went as usual. The biggest and still unanswered question is how it is possible that our state aid did not work, but the Latvians who did, as we have just heard, get away with even dirtier dumping and even more State aid. Something about this scheme doesn't add up. Something has been done very wrong in Estonia, there are mismanagement or other decisions, but no one is telling us anything about this. There is some emotional story about how Tallinn must be brought to Brussels twice a day. I don't think that justifies spending that kind of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U76	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. The report by Juhan Parts was excellent. Thank him! But listening to the story of Juhan Parts, I got some ideas. I remember last year when we tried here, or rather, the government tried to get approval to scrape up one million state fees. At the same time, we are blowing up a hundred million unauthorized state aids, and there is no one responsible. Mr Parts said here today that there was, in fact, a plan that the state aid rules should be changed, but we could not make it clear to the decision-makers in Brussels, and this has left us a black sheep, unlike the Latvians. It seems to me that it is quite the same when we are driving in the opposite direction, in the wrong lane, and when the crash comes, we say that traffic rules should have been changed and traffic should be moving the other way, traffic should be different. My question is still that, and it could be discussed why we could not make it clear. Were we too arrogant or what was that all about? At this point in time, it is unclear to a person with a common sense why so much money was released, but no one is responsible. Against the fact that regular flights to Brussels should take place and that the Estonian state should ensure this, no one is arguing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U78	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U79	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm happy to be in front of you and say a few words in this discussion. First of all, if you think about subsidising, I wouldn't say that these EUR 100 million have been flown or wasted, because we really do subsidise train traffic, we do do subsidise bus traffic, and nobody says it's a waste of money. This is done for people to move, an end in itself. But I'd look at it from a different angle. It's clear that when someone starts buying a plane ticket, there's always a choice in Bookinghouse or some other portal that a company can fly. I didn't buy a ticket for the Estonian Air flight because he didn't survive the price competition, those tickets were extremely expensive. If you were to calculate an additional subsidy that we paid each year, you'd come up with even more money for the ticket. This means that this company was not competitive; it was unable to deliver under market conditions to close to profit or zero. Looking at the events that took place after 2011, when the new leader came, what are we talking about? We're talking about these seven planes being bought from three or four companies. This meant that more parts were needed, more complicated maintenance and repair. Plus, there were just as many planes as there were flights. This meant that if a plane was delayed or something happened to it, there was nothing to replace it with. The fleet was small and costly, and it was very difficult to cope with. Really, fuel prices were higher then, and now they've gone down a bit. However, if a certain period of time could compensate for the costs, the company should have reached a positive value for a certain period of time. There was no point in continuing to pay for the expenses that had been incurred. Another logic error. When SAS was on the verge of bankruptcy, we still decided to assume these obligations. Good, but why did we wait so long? Why didn't we take immediate action to create a new company or change strategy? We believed in some beautiful myth, but it only made spending bigger and bigger. We hired a person who basically wanted to do airBaltic with Estonian Air and show that Estonian Air was more powerful, to prove that it wasn't right to bring him together. All these activities caused Estonian Air to cease its activities the other day. But what happens next? We're building the same company today, basically, but on even more bizarre principles. The new company rents the crews and the planes. I'm not talking about people on their flight crews not speaking Estonian, but sometimes they speak English very badly. The question is, what's the future for the airlines? I assume that if an organization built on the same principles flies to the same destinations, he will have the same future. If oil prices go up, the situation will change again. Not to mention that clients don't want to fly planes from this company anymore. Today's latest news shows that the number of clients is decreasing. This all leads to what happened to Estonian Air. But no one says you can't. Yeah, it's natural to do the dot, but how do you do the dot? How do you do bus routes in counties? A competition is announced, and whoever makes a cheaper offer under the same conditions wins the competition. At least there's fair competition. The price that will be set will be paid by the customer and the rest will be paid by the State. This has been done to some extent on the basis of market conditions. But let us continue to discuss these issues. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U80	Thank you. There's no more calls. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U81	Let us move to the next question, which is the third item on today's agenda. Members of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild have submitted an inquiry. The request for information submitted on 9 November 2015 is about the suitability of the Juhan Parts to the European Audit Office. The inquiry bears number 95, answers Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. I ask the representative of the heirs Martin Helme to introduce the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U82	Members of the Conservative People's Party Group shall submit an inquiry to the Prime Minister, Juhan Parts, on the suitability of the European Court of Auditors. Estonian Air's insolvency and systematic mismanagement are, of course, the responsibility of the entire government, but above all the responsibility of the Minister for Industry. Juhan Parts became Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications in April 2007, he remained present until March 2014. It was during the part that Estonian Air was renationalised, repeated cash injections were made to prevent bankruptcy of the company, but there were also exceptionally unsuccessful personnel choices for both the board and the CEO. The responsibility of the duck is also confusion in the start-up of Elron and the inability to ensure smooth passenger train traffic. As a minister, he is responsible for the cost of Eesti Energia and failed risk projects in Jordan and the USA, as well as for questionable domestic investments in Auvere, for example. During his appointment as minister, continuous exchanges of CEO took place in EAS, and the institution was expelled from politicisation and inappropriate funding. Nor can it be forgotten that Minister Parts completely missed abuses in the Road Administration by releasing the head of this office only after the scandals that have become public in the media. That is why we are asking: which persons has the government considered Estonia's representative in the European Court of Auditors? What are the criteria for the Prime Minister and the Government to fill this post? For what reasons does Prime Minister Juhan Parts consider competent to work in the European Court of Auditors? Does the Prime Minister realise that during Juhan Parts' career, the aforementioned and a number of other failures make him unfit to serve as a member of the European Court of Auditors in public opinion and that his candidacy violates the public's sense of justice? In the Prime Minister's view, what does the expression 'political responsibility' mean, and is the appointment of the Juhan Parts to a high European office specifically considered by the Prime Minister to be a punishment accompanying the responsibility or rather a bonus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U83	Thank you. Please ask Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas of the Riigikogu Chair to answer question No 95!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your inquiry on the suitability of the Juhan Parts as a member of the European Court of Auditors, submitted on 9 November last year. The first question: 'What individuals has the government considered as the representative of Estonia in the European Court of Auditors? ' According to the Act of the Government of the Republic, the candidate for the Republic of Estonia will decide on the seat of a member of the European Court of Auditors. According to the government's rules, the candidate for a member of the Court of Auditors is presented by the Minister of Finance after hearing the opinion of the National Audit Office. The Minister of Finance has publicly announced that the candidate he will propose is Juhan Parts, but this issue has not yet been discussed at the meeting of the Government. The second question: 'What are the criteria for the Prime Minister and the Government to perform this function? ' Pursuant to Article 286 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the members of the Court of Auditors shall be chosen from among persons who, in their own country, are or have belonged to external audit bodies or who are particularly competent for that post. Let us acknowledge that these are formal and quite general terms. In addition, the search for a candidate must naturally take into account experience, the international contact network as well as personal characteristics. The third question: 'For what reasons does Prime Minister Juhan Parts consider the European Audit Office to be the competent person? ' The fourth question: Does the Prime Minister realise that the aforementioned and several other failures during Juhan Parts' career make him unfit for the office of the European Court of Auditors for the public and that his candidacy seriously undermines the public's sense of justice? ' I will answer these two questions at once. I have also said before that I consider Juhan Parts to be a strong candidate for membership of the Court of Auditors. The mere fact that this is the former Prime Minister adds international weight to Juhan Parts. Of course, his experience as Auditor General and Minister of Economic Affairs is also important. Question 5: "What does the expression 'political responsibility' mean for the Prime Minister and whether the appointment of the Juhan Parts to a high European office in particular is, according to the Prime Minister, a punishment accompanying the responsibility or rather a bonus? ' It is in Estonia's interest to send a strong candidate to the inspection room. As an indisputable specialist in this area, Auditor General Alar Karis has also said in his letter to the Minister of Finance that Juhan Parts' versatile work experience in the service of the Estonian state is a good prerequisite for meeting the high demands of the Member of the European Court of Auditors. Kersti Kaljulaid, the current Member of the Court of Auditors, has said that Juhan Parts is competent to belong to the European Court of Auditors. He said: "There can be no doubt about it. It has never been said that there must be a person who has never been involved in politics. ' I agree in this sense that the existence of a political career should not, in my opinion, prevent the future from serving in a non-political position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U85	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have at least one question. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U86	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Prime Minister! Now, I don't know if you guys were even listening, or if you didn't read the introduction to our questioning. I still come to the point that when you answered the third and fourth questions at once, you said that you thought Juhan Parts was an excellent candidate. Well, by what standard?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U87	Thank you. First of all, I do not remember that I, as Prime Minister, or even before as Minister of Social Affairs, was ever in a situation where your inquiry in a row had to be resolved by someone's personal question, all the more so as this is your colleague. Some strange situation you've put me in. But I really have said and will say that both previous work experience and skills will certainly be sufficient for Juhan Parts to represent Estonia well in this position. That is what I can say purely as my personal position. Officially, there is no candidate for the government, and officially, the government has not discussed the candidate, so I cannot speak to you as Head of Government on behalf of the whole government. But like each of us, I have personal views, and I believe that the experience of the candidate should outweigh the desire to do politically to someone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U88	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am still interested in when the government will finally decide on this matter. It's been too long.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U90	Thank you. As you well know, Estonia's current representative is in office until May. So, in principle, we still have time to deal with this issue and we will probably work on it. There is no reason to doubt whether the Estonian candidate will be nominated. I'm sure he will.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U91	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I personally think that Juhan Parts, with his previous work experience at the National Audit Office and as Prime Minister, would be suitable for this place in terms of qualifications. The question is, of course, that he is at risk and takes great risks. But how do you guys get soft? It was once whispered in a style that there would be a trade: one Ducks and three Sots to find a place for Mart Merile, Rannar Vassilyev and Karel Rüütel. There's already a job for two, so is the third one gonna get a job soon, or has that deal changed in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U93	Thank you. There's no deal like that. Don't worry about it! We will probably be able to deal with each other in the coalition, and we will also be able to agree on those issues where it is a little more difficult to agree, which will require more time and where very steep, perhaps unreasonably steep positions have been taken. You can be completely calm, there are no other major issues in the coalition. This one problem needs to be resolved in the coming months, we will solve it and we will find a dignified candidate. As you know, this is a government decision, so this decision must be made in the government, and no one else can give instructions to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U94	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! To be honest, your claim that you will come to an agreement in the coalition was very disturbing. If a rather scandalous situation has now developed around this post, should the government not behave in a different way and launch a public competition to fill this post? I think it would satisfy both the public and the stalemate. Then there would be no need for any back room agreement that one Duck against three Vassilyevs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U96	Thank you. In addition to everything else, government decisions must be made in accordance with the law and the rules in force. The rules in force are that the Estonian representative of the European Court of Auditors is appointed by the government. Only the government has the authority to present it. It is also well known who of the members of the government has the right to present this candidate to the government for discussion. At present, the Minister of Finance has this right. Those are the rules, and these are the rules we intend to follow. The fact that there has been a very lively public debate on this subject is not bad in itself. I think this is an important position and why not discuss it openly. I am very much in general of the opinion that more than less should be involved in all matters. However, a decision must still be made by the government, as it falls within the competence of the government, as already provided for by the legislation referred to.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U97	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U98	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Mr Ernits has already introduced the question that I wanted to ask. You repeatedly mentioned that the government would come to a consensus and then decide on a suitable candidate. However, I would like to remind you that you are, at least formally, the head of government, who should dictate the work of the government and offer alternatives that satisfy the various parties. As we have seen, the Social Democrats are very strongly opposed to the candidacy of the Juhan Parts. A compromise must therefore be found. I think it should certainly be your job to offer alternative candidates, with whom Mr Ossinovski, who seems to be more dictating the work of the government, would be pleased. It would create a peace of mind in the government. How do you feel about doing your job? Are you a head of government who can find a candidate who would be acceptable to both the government and the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U99	Thank you. We will quite certainly find a candidate, and quite certainly Estonia will have a dignified representative in the Court of Auditors. But if your stabs were meant to be an attempt to offend the Prime Minister a little bit, you didn't do very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U100	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U101	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! In my opinion, the most serious or most interesting expression of this question is the political responsibility mentioned in the fifth question. Would you be so kind as to give some thought to how you understand that? Is it carried by an individual, or is it always worn by the entire government? What do you think of all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U102	Thank you. First of all, my sincere compliment. Both you and your penguin always ask such philosophical box-out-out-of-the-box questions that are exciting to answer, even if sometimes the answer might get a disturbingly long one. But I will try to be as brief as possible. I believe that the political responsibility of all of us primarily reflects our responsibility to our constituents. We have regular job interviews, everyone. Every four years, each of us must go before our constituents and justify what he has done and what he has failed to do, and we must also justify everything he wants to do in the future. The voter's voice is sacred. The voters say who of us, and with a strong mandate, is justified in continuing their work and who must find another application. In my opinion, the most important political responsibility is the responsibility we have to our constituents.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U103	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U104	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Does a government's decision have to be consensual, or can the government decide differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U105	Thank you. Formally, you can vote in the government, but I certainly prefer reaching an agreement as a working principle. There is a very clear reason for this. If there is a practice in government in each individual case, the practice may arise that one or the other smaller partner is voted in the corner, sooner or later someone else will be tempted to vote in the corner on another issue. This certainly does not have a good effect on the working climate of the government. So even if the government sometimes takes a little too long to reach an agreement in the opinion of the opposition and also of the public, in any case, I prefer to reach an agreement in favour of voting in someone's corner. In principle, there are, of course, more options for decision-making, but let's just say that there are very clear advantages in the search for consensus, which is sometimes difficult and cumbersome enough and which certainly does not mean that the path of simple resistance is going. Life has taught us that governments that are very quick to decide, so that some may have a powerful impression, generally do not tend to last very long.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U106	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U107	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you think it is normal for the Social Democrats, who are your coalition partner, to use this issue to blackmail through the legislation implementing the Cohabitation Act? You said the government can't be jumpy and full of discord. But what does it say about your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U108	Thank you. First of all, I'm not aware that somebody was blackmailing somewhere. As far as policy issues of all kinds are concerned, you see, we have a coalition of three parties with quite different views of the world. In some cases, if there are differences between the adoption of a law, the adoption of implementing acts of a law, or the selection of a particular person, it would be inappropriate to see something unprecedented or distinctive in it. I'm quite young, but my political memory is pretty long. I've seen governments very closely since 1999. I don't remember any government that wouldn't have had any major or minor disagreements on any particular subject. It's perfectly natural. Just as it is natural to always give the best in order to resolve differences in the smartest way possible. As long as the government has the wisdom to resolve issues, including those that have originally caused disagreements, the government will be able to cooperate. When that wisdom runs out, the next governments will probably come.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U109	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U110	We will move to the fourth inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Korb, Jüri Ratas, Erki Savisaar, Kadri Simson, Enn Eesmaa, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Dmitri Dmitriev, Märt Sults, Valeri Korb and Tarmo Tamm on 12 November 2015. The question is about the sustainability of the Development Fund and bears the number 100. Reply by Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. I ask Mikhail Korbi, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, who will introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U111	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I will present an inquiry to the Minister of Enterprise, Liisa Oviir. The inquiry concerns the sustainability of the Development Fund. As you all know, over the last six months, an institution like the Development Fund has been burning up a lot of passion. Several political and non-political forces have expressed their views. Who has found that this organization is needed, who doesn't need it. In general, it seems that there is a clear crisis in the management of this organisation. This organisation, which was set up in 2007, met its objectives more or less successfully at some point in time, namely monitoring economic development, investing risk, mostly investing risk in the IT sector, and carrying out other tasks. Some assignments he received purposefully, some incidentally. Once a year, the Chairman of the Board of the Development Fund has also come before us. For over a year now, there has been an actress. We cannot make a final assessment of what to do with the Development Fund. In order to have more information in this Chamber and to find out the opinion of the Ministry and the Government on how they see the future of the Development Fund and what they think could be done with the Development Fund, we submitted an inquiry to the Minister. The Centre Party asked five questions. We also hope to hear a constructive discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U112	Thank you very much. I ask Liisa Oviir, Minister of Enterprise of the Riigikogu Chair, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U113	Good afternoon. I will read the questions one by one and then try to give them a meaningful answer, as requested. The first question: 'The main task of the Development Fund is to produce economic analyses. Today it is speculated that the development fund is no longer needed. Do you support the same position? If so, which organisation should provide and conduct economic analyses? If not, what tasks should the Development Fund perform? ' As the members of the Riigikogu have probably heard, I have started reviewing the support structures of entrepreneurship and a thorough audit of their activities. The Development Fund is one of the business support structures. I would not be happy to answer in this context whether the Development Fund is important and necessary. I am talking about whether it is important and necessary to carry out economic analyses. After all, this depends primarily on the Riigikogu, to which the Development Fund is actually subject. My personal assessment is that economic monitoring and economic analysis could most likely be the necessary instruments for the Riigikogu to make its contribution to legislation and to deal with it in a high-quality manner. So, yes, I think that economic analysis is necessary, and I see no reason why it could not continue within the framework of the Development Fund. The second question: 'The Development Fund itself has offered a new investment strategy as one of the solutions for closing direct investment in companies and planning to invest in a private equity business accelerator in order to strengthen companies in the initial phase. How and if so, would the new investment strategy of the Development Fund change the role of the Development Fund in the future? ' Yes, I am familiar with their new investment strategy, which describes the reorientation from direct investment to fund-based investment. This change of direction is based on an analysis showing that the market failure in the area of direct investment has been significantly reduced in recent years. I must say thank you, because this market failure has also been reduced thanks to the work of the Development Fund and SmartCap. It has also become apparent that there are still market failures in the development of the capital market that meets the potential of Estonian start-up enterprises, which can be resolved by fund-based investments. The investment strategy of the Development Fund would like to focus on start-ups in a very early phase. The rest of the fund-based investment policy would be offered by KredEx products and fund funds (Estonian Early Phase Fund and Baltic Innovation Fund). My initial assessment is that, during the reform of business support structures, one of the preferred potential solutions could be that the investment policy needed to develop the entire capital market should be implemented in a single institution. Since such an institution already exists, I mean KredEx, it seems to me that it would be a reasonable place to put together this entire portfolio. Rather, I consider economic analysis and economic monitoring to be the most important role of the development fund. The third question: 'The communication between the parties is also perceived as problematic. Don't you think that by setting up specific research tasks for the Development Fund, it will allow for better communication and cooperation with the Riigikogu in order to achieve real benefits for the Estonian economy? ' Of course, I absolutely agree with that view. There is probably reference to the communication between the Riigikogu and the Development Fund. Given that the Riigikogu has not given its guidelines, I agree that this communication has been weak and weak. It will certainly be possible to improve this and the tasks assigned to the Development Fund will be substantially more precise. I think it would be a very reasonable way to go. Question 4: 'Do you not think that the problems with the Development Fund are due to the lack of a professional manager? ' It seems to me that the professional manager is perhaps absent because there have been problems with the Development Fund for a long time. It's very difficult to tell which one has caused it. On the basis of what I have seen as a member of the Council of the Development Fund, it seems to me that management may not be such a big problem at the moment, rather the problem is that the tasks of the Development Fund are too widely described in the law, the task set is too scattered. Question 5: 'The Government of the Republic has reduced the budget of the Development Fund in the 2016 budget. Can you tell me why? The budget within the Development Fund is in fact still being approved. The truth is that this amount will be slightly lower this year. As this year is the transitional year for the budgetary period of the European Union, the forecast for the 2016 Development Fund's Action Plan contained fewer planned activities than before and the amount allocated for that year is therefore one-offly lower. The change is certainly a one-off, I will say on the basis of the current state of affairs if there are no changes in the organisation. This one-off surplus was allocated by the government to the Development of Industrial Areas of Ida-Virumaa SA, which is in a rapidly developing phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U114	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U115	Thank you. Dear Minister for Enterprise, In your speech, you said that the Development Fund was involved in setting up support structures or reviewing their tasks. In 2007, the Development Fund started to work, so it has been operating for eight years. Maybe it's time to sort of sum up what's been done in that eight-year period. Then perhaps there would be no question of whether the fund is necessary or not. Maybe you can comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U116	I may have explained a little poorly. I wanted to say that as Minister for Enterprise, I am working on a review of the support structures for entrepreneurship. These include KredEx and EAS, apart from the Development Fund. More specifically, all the measures in support of entrepreneurship that the country offers are in my interest. The Development Fund shall provide an annual overview of its activities. Let's be honest, there have been some very good things, but things that have gone a little worse. The investment activities they have carried out through SmartCap have certainly been one of the major successes of the Development Fund. Its aim was to remedy the market failure at the time. At present, this market failure has been eliminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U117	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your view of the Development Fund and its future. You rightly mentioned that capital market investments would probably make sense to pool together in order to achieve a better, more effective and more observable result. If they are fragmented between several companies, it will probably be more difficult to achieve. Did I understand you correctly that monitoring activities, which are really very necessary and important, would leave the sphere of influence of the development fund, which is still working as an independent body?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U119	Thank you. I reply in such a way that it should actually remain the decision of the Riigikogu if the Riigikogu wants to see the organisation that provides support to the Riigikogu for economic analysis and helps the Riigikogu to improve the quality of legislation. In my opinion, it may not really make much difference whether this task comes under the Minister for Enterprise or stays where it is now. I see strengths in both options, and there's danger points in both. But yes, I understand why certain apolitical monitoring could be necessary for the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U120	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As a member of your new council, you will see the matter freshly. Finding a leader has been beyond the reach of the Council for a long time. How is it possible that in one country the Council can wait so long to find a leader for an important organisation? Is this thing picking up now? Do you have any idea when this problem will be resolved once and for all, in a month, in two weeks, or in half a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U122	Thank you. It is possible to find a very good leader for the organisation when it is clear what this organisation will or will be dealing with. As long as there is uncertainty, it will not be possible to get the very good leader we want to be there. A person doesn't come to a job interview unless he knows what's going to be his job. As a result, I would rather ask the Riigikogu to take the initiative and make these decisions very quickly so that the Council can proceed quickly with the search for a new leader.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U123	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I'll ask you a more specific question. When the Development Fund was created, it was set up at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The purpose of the Development Fund was to develop entrepreneurship. An example was taken of organisations in Finland, Japan and Taiwan, which also dealt with the business environment and business development. In addition to monitoring, there were a number of other functions. As your Minister for Enterprise, doesn't the Development Fund see any function he could perform for the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U125	Thank you. There are certainly a number of functions that a competent organisation could do for the Ministry. At the moment, however, the question is that it is an organisation governed by the Riigikogu. In my opinion, it is not reasonable to compensate for the lack of tasks assigned to this organisation by the Ministry embodiing it by setting certain deict duties. This is what I have tried to emphasise several times: the most important thing is that it will be clear what this organisation should be dealing with if it goes under the direct government of the Minister of Enterprise or stays with the Riigikogu. It will then be possible to determine what functions it will have in the future, what it will perform. If the Riigikogu considers that there is no need for such an organisation, because we have other organisations involved in the development of entrepreneurship, I think this is also a perfectly acceptable solution. Then the competent people will be released, who will certainly move on to either the Ministry or some business support structure. Good people always have a place where they can be used. But above all, the question is that, as your owner, you should give an input on how you want the work of the Development Fund to continue and whether you want it at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U126	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U127	Thank you. Dear Minister for Enterprise, how do you support economic development?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U128	Thank you. The first thing I propose right now is that today an action for the EAS company's development programme will be launched, for which EUR 73 million will be allocated in the coming years. This is a new approach to supporting entrepreneurship. While so far a very large number of grants have been one-off, with a very clear target, this new measure is approaching entrepreneurship in a more complex way. If the company wants to develop and expand, its goal is either to start exporting or to increase exports, then in cooperation with the EAS, there is an opportunity to diagnose the organisation in order to identify its strengths, as well as the weaknesses that are most hampering its development. The appropriate measure will then be chosen, whether advice, mentoring or, for example, financial support for the purchase of an appliance. For a company, this allowance may amount to up to EUR 200000, which is quite a decent and impressive amount. But, yes, we are very systematically approaching precisely in order to enable companies to expand and develop. The idea and purpose of this is that companies with more than 50 employees are generally exporting and the biggest exporters are, however, companies with 250 or more employees. That is why we are pushing for development and expansion, because the aim is to export. Exports are what ultimately brings money to the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U129	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I fully share your view that, perhaps, I would like to express it in a more expressive way, that economic analysis and monitoring of development at the level of the country as a whole are lacking in order to make good decisions. But what is your faith based on to be able and able to do so by the Development Fund? I mean, looking only at the number of employees, how can it be assumed that they will be able to carry out economic analysis or monitoring of development in all kinds of areas that the country really has an interest in? Or, according to your idea, the Development Fund will only become a "ordering institution" and be it the Academy of Sciences or whoever, who will do these works in concrete and real terms? At the same time, of course, there has been some competence in the Development Fund, let us take the energy economy as an example, there are also decent fruits, but this is still rather an exception, looking at the number of its employees. So what is your belief that the Development Fund can do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U131	Thank you. I began by recognising that I would be happy not to talk about the Development Fund, but to talk about economic analysis. I said that, yes, I agree that economic analysis or economic monitoring could be necessary for the Riigikogu for very high-quality legislation. Could this be done by the Development Fund or by another organisation? There are very different approaches. If the Riigikogu knows exactly what it wants to receive, it is possible to man the organisation accordingly. The wider this task setting, the more likely it is that either the existing or the body that is to be set up will be either a procurement or an order. The narrower the task setting, the greater the probability that we can find those people who have this competence and who can give the Riigikogu input. In my opinion, however, this decision lies ahead of the Riigikogu. From there, I can contribute, both as a member of the Minister for Enterprise and as a member of the Council of the Development Fund, to find the solution that is best suited to your wishes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U132	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U133	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I am trying to find out what the Riigikogu should do. What decision do you expect this fund to work? What should the Riigikogu do? What kind of decision do you expect, and where should this decision come from, from the big hall or from the Commission? This fund has been set up and should work. What decision do you expect?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U134	Thank you. According to the information known to me, this issue has been under discussion and is still under discussion in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu. Of course, I would expect a guideline from the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu whether the Riigikogu, looking at the contribution of the Development Fund for the last ten years, considers it sufficient and whether it wishes to make changes to the activities of the Fund, even because of changes in the same investment environment. I have put forward my position precisely as to whether investment activities could be removed from it, to put it where it logically belongs, so that all this activity in the country takes place in one place. The Fund would maintain economic analysis and monitoring. I would expect a decision as to whether the Riigikogu sees the need to continue it and if it sees it, in what form. I propose that this activity be more accurately and better furnished, so that the Development Fund should not have to decorate it and look for action itself, but that it should have an annual task that it does, and on this basis it would give the Riigikogu input.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U135	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! The child is now eight years old. You say, at times it seemed to me that we, as his parents, the owners, should give him some kind of task, some kind of responsibility, but we also need an analysis for high-quality legislation, but for some reason we're out here messing around and it's not possible to find a manager for the fund. How long could it take for us to have a stepchild, but we don't know what to do with him? How long could this uncertainty last?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U137	Thank you. According to the information I have, the Committee on Economic Affairs is very intensive in dealing with this subject and analysing the whole situation, including negotiating with political parties to find a consensus on what part the Riigikogu might need an economic analysis and whether the Riigikogu sees the need for this work to continue in an organisation operating under this law or to become a government subsidiary. I want to stress once again that there have been cons in this decade, but there have also been very clear pros. It is just now that the owner, too, is no longer very satisfied. All the more so since it is a state budget institution whose costs per year are actually quite impressive. Understandably, the owner expects a certain quality for this amount. It has been regrettable that in recent times this quality has remained largely jumpy and rather below expectations. In order to improve this quality, it is necessary to have a very clear task set out in order to know what are the topics in which the Riigikogu needs to support itself with economic analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U138	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have stressed and did so several times just now that the Riigikogu needs analysis and development monitoring. I'm sure it's right. But why in that case shouldn't this competence centre be directly with the Riigikogu? Why is this development fund even needed as such a separate entity? You mentioned as an alternative only a government sub-office. Why can't we have this job here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U140	Thank you. Of course you can. That is the question that, if it is stated exactly what the Riigikogu wants to receive, it is the easiest way to find the form that would work in the best way. I have pointed out that two options have been shown on a regular basis. First of all, this fund currently works under the leadership of the Riigikogu, under the authority of the Riigikogu. That's the situation right now. Second, it has been shown that if he came under the government, what would happen then? In my opinion, both options are acceptable. Rather, my concern is that the organisation absorbs an impressive amount from the budget each year, but it does not have a direct task, which is why the result is poor. That's my problem. All the more so since the business environment and business support structures are the responsibility of the Minister of Enterprise. I see there's an organization that doesn't do as much good as I'd like it to. But once again, I have also said that the support structure for entrepreneurship that is being created could be some kind of institution, a conditional business agency, and if it is the wish of the Riigikogu, it is possible to do this work also through this. It would be possible to set up an entity for development and economic monitoring. Is that what you want? Once again, I urge you to decide this among yourselves. From there on it is already relatively simple practical and real work. The question is behind the decision, and it is all about the matter until we find a very good leader. Everyone's waiting for this one decision. I would like to move forward with the entrepreneurship agency on such a schedule that next year we will adopt a new structure, the content of which has been reviewed, which will work in the best possible way and provide the country with the best possible input. This would be a very good moment, which could also be used to fully involve the reform of the Development Fund, deciding what is going on with it and how to proceed. I would be very grateful if you would consider this a priority topic in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U141	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U142	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! I hope, at least, that one of the major goals of the Development Fund was also to contribute to the development of Estonia's great development vision or several visions, including the development and interpretation of crazy ideas. The fact that not everything has happened is known to us. Question 'Who's to blame? ' demands that the Riigikogu itself and the whole of our changed environment respond to this. The fact that I came here today is due to the trust of the members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, on the one hand, and, on the other, to the fact that I am part of the committee convened by Maris Lauri, who, through his representatives from all the political groups, is trying to understand the same question as the Minister stressed that we are actually looking for a solution that would be best for Estonia and the Riigikogu in looking at the future of the Development Fund. The fact that the investment component is moving to a central location is probably correct because the Development Fund has been able to do a good job here. This is certainly not something we are going to question or underestimate in the case of start-ups or start-ups. Another part of the action is monitoring. Here is the question of who and how much this monitoring needs in this Riigikogu. I dare confirm that the Riigikogu should be the one who can order large economic analyses that are useful for Estonia's development, perhaps also environmental analyses in general. One of the possibilities that we seriously discussed at the last meeting of the Commission is that one could bring the monitoring side of the development fund directly to the Riigikogu, strengthening the analysis work already in place with this independent unit at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Thus, the Riigikogu would retain a very autonomous opportunity to order analyses and raise questions, especially on topics that take Estonia forward. Certainly, before making a final decision, we should consider how these basic tasks will arise. Whether the central body is the Committee on Economic Affairs, which is one way of working with other committees, is, in fact, already a technical issue. But it is certainly necessary that the Riigikogu retains the possibility to order independent and autonomously adequate impact analyses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U143	Thank you. No further speeches, I will close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U144	We are going to the fifth inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsepp, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams and Monika Haukanõm on 9 November last year. The requested information is about the instigation of the bankruptcy of Estonian Air and bears the number 93. Reply by Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. I ask the representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, Artur Talvik, who introduces the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U145	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps some of the people in this hall feel that too much has been said about Estonian Air today. But I don't think I've said enough. Addressing the problems associated with the bankruptcy of Estonian Air can help us to avoid in the future the situation where we are hogging yet another million, but highly skilled workers, as Estonian Air's employees were undoubtedly, will lose their jobs. This may help to avoid a situation where we make mistakes by hurriedly granting state aid, without analysing the situation and thereby causing serious harm to ourselves. This can also help to avoid many other problems. Thus, on 9 November we submitted an inquiry to Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. There are seven questions in this question, many of which have already been answered, but many questions are still confusing and want a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U146	Thank you. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, for the speech of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! To begin with, I am certainly in agreement with Arthur Talvik and his colleagues. More in-depth analysis is needed to find out why and how to make decisions and how to make better decisions. I totally agree with that. Probably over time, these analyses will also come and be more thorough. At the moment, the full text of this Commission decision has still not been examined, I say to the public. There will certainly be a report by the National Audit Office on past decisions and, in fact, on current decisions. So let's find those places where we can do better. But now, based on the knowledge I have now, I will answer the questions you have asked. The first question concerns the parts of the State aid granted to Estonian Air. It is requested to highlight the dates, the manner in which the aid was granted and the exact amounts involved. Estonia has had a long vision that Estonia, as a peripheral country of the European Union, should operate an airline whose base station is in Tallinn. In another way, it is difficult or impossible to ensure that passengers can benefit from effective competition in the market and that people can fly back to larger European centres in the morning and back at night. Today, the competitiveness of countries depends largely on good associations, both businesses and those who appreciate the potential for economic development. The economic impact of passenger traffic related to Tallinn airport is estimated at 3.2% of GDP, i.e. 624 million euros. The impact of Estonian Air on the economy was up to 0.9%, which is an airline based in Tallinn. It is simply stated that the GDP in 2014 was 19.5 billion, i.e. Estonian Air's economic impact in 2014 was up to 176 million euros. This was an introduction to explain what must have been the basis for making decisions. On the basis of the orders of the Government of the Republic, the following payments have been made to Estonian Air: I'm just saying the year, not the specific date, you can look at it after the written text if you want. In 2010, the capital injection amounted to EUR 17.9 million, with capital injection twice as much as EUR 15 million between 2011 and 2012. In addition, there has been talk of a rescue aid loan of EUR 0,8 million, EUR 3 million, EUR 4,5 million, EUR 16,6 million and EUR 12.1 million at different times. Once again, if you want to know the exact dates, they are in the written text. The second question: 'How did the European Commission be informed about these steps and whether and what feedback was received there? " As of 3 September 2012, Estonia informed the European Commission of its plans to grant a rescue aid loan to Estonian Air and provided information on previous investments. On 4 December 2012, a meeting took place between the representatives of Estonia and the Commission. Since then, Estonian Air has been in constant correspondence, has held meetings and has been consulted with the European Commission, and both parties have put forward their arguments. The third question: 'The public information suggests that Estonian officials have not been able to communicate with the Commission competently from the outset and have been involved in granting state aid to half-secret. On the other hand, the Latvians have provided State aid and, in so doing, have actively and adequately communicated with the Commission. Why was such a path chosen, and who is specifically responsible for this inadequate method? ' The fact that a different decision was made about Latvia certainly did not depend solely on communication, but there are certainly more nuances, including different circumstances. The investigation of Latvia's payments was initiated against the complaint and a number of capital payments made prior to the initiation of the investigation were also under investigation. Some of them received a positive, some negative decision. Estonian officials and politicians did much to convince the European Commission of the legitimacy of state aid and the necessity of Estonian Air to ensure Estonian air connections. As we now know, the European Commission and Estonia were left with different opinions here. The Commission's main argument was that the restructuring was not consistent and the principle that State aid could be granted once every 10 years was wrong. Estonian officials kept in constant contact with the Commission, visiting Brussels as well as exchanging letters. Official letters, 29 in total, were sent on several dates. These dates will also be available for you to find out about the written text. In addition, there have been 14 formal meetings with the European Commission, the dates of which you will also be able to find out about the written text. Question 4: 'European Commission officials have indicated that the Estonian Government started coordinating state aid with the Commission's Competition Directorate-General too late after the first injections of funds had already been made. If so, who is specifically responsible for the late start of the coordination process? " The European Commission was not informed of the earlier investments and capital injections of AS Estonian Air, since at that time it was found that they were not State aid but investments on market terms. The European Commission does not need to be informed of investments according to the rules. Perhaps part of the problem arose because the rules were understood differently. Question 5: 'The former Vice-President of the European Commission, Siim Kallas, has said that it was already quite clear in 2013 that such State aid would not comply with the rules of fair competition. Why did the government and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, after that, start to justify themselves and do nothing to avoid further mistakes? Who, at the level of the government and ministry, is specifically responsible for the decisions taken at that time? " Already in 2013, information exchange and consultation took place with the Commission, in which both parties presented their arguments. According to the Estonian Air's comments, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the In Estonia's view, the rescue aid loan and the restructuring plan should be treated as aid, not earlier investments. As has already been said, the Commission's view was different. Question 6: "How do you comment on the assertion that there has been a statutory transfer between Estonian Air and Nordic Aviation, and how do you intend to prevent a new airline from entering the same situation as Estonian Air? " We have asked for legal assessments to avoid different risks for the new company. Nordic Aviation will certainly itself also monitor its steps to ensure that everything is done on the market principle. There will be no joint and identical takeover of Estonian Air's assets, employees and flight plans. Negotiations with suppliers, customers and employees have resumed. No treaty will come over, it has been carefully monitored. The new company has its own business plan, which has been assessed by the independent external evaluator Lufthansa Consulting. The National Audit Office has also drawn attention to the need to order an external evaluation. I believe that this was a necessary proposal. The business plan of the new company is expected to operate for profit, and the company must take this into account when setting its activities and objectives. There is certainly some overlap between destinations when flying from Tallinn, but we do not expect a new airline to start flying to Kazan or Tambov instead of Amsterdam or Brussels just in case. Estonian entrepreneurs and other people may still have an interest in major European capital airports, but they won't change their location in six months. The new company will also look carefully at what competitors do. For example, when SAS decided to start flying to Copenhagen, it was decided to abandon this route. It is not appropriate to fly against the wing; it is likely that instead of this route you can open another one, which offers more opportunities for passengers once again. The recruitment of pilots and on-board crews shall take place through competitions and recruitment. That's the only way. Without the existence of a company based in Tallinn, it would not even be possible to discuss whether there is an Estonian-speaking team in the cockpit or on board, but the rules must be observed when recruiting. The same is true for assets, for example. The acquisition of assets from Estonian Air to a new airline is neither planned nor taking place. Where assets held by third parties are used, they must be carried out on a market-based basis. In both cases, it is more inconvenient, among other things for the new company, but better monitored by the public and, where appropriate, by the European Commission. What we cannot and probably do not want to avoid is that passengers overlap, because people flying from Estonia are the same. Even the members of the Riigikogu are still the same. I hope that this will not be considered as transferring customers from one company to another if the same people from a small country still go back to Europe. The seventh question: "What analyses and capacity assessments have suggested that Estonian Air's activities will be carried out over the last 15 years? ' Aviation is an extremely complex area of activity; airlines from all European countries have been in difficulty in essence, perhaps with the exception of some low-cost airlines. The causes have been mainly due to the overall economic environment. Estonian Air is a company governed by the Commercial Code and the State Assets Act. The general meeting has confirmed the expectations of the owner and the annual reports. The Supervisory Board planned the activities of the public limited company and organised the management of the public limited company and monitored the activities of the management board. According to the law, the results of the supervisory review have been announced at the general meeting. Estonian Air's board of directors was responsible for the day-to-day management of the company. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again why we need an airline based in Tallinn. The impact of such a company on the Estonian economy varies according to the estimates of 0.5 to 1% of GDP, which is 100 to 200 million euros per year. True, other airlines would partly take over routes, but it is estimated that no more than 50% of them will be taken over, which means that the local airline will provide us with an annual wealth increase of EUR 50 to 100 million. It is also important to measure the time effect. Today, the competitiveness of countries depends largely on good associations. If our country's capital could fly only every other day and at noon, we would immediately lose much of our attractiveness. It is not just our guests that are important, nor should our own people be able to fly as freely as possible. Without a local airline, passenger flight times would be increased by an average of two hours due to transfers, which would amount to 1.2 million hours a year, or 137 years in total. Of course, accessibility to Estonia would deteriorate, which would affect tourism, foreign investment and economic competitiveness. When we started a new company, we also considered Baltic cooperation. In the future, it may be a reasonable plan, but financially, based on current information, buying-in flights would be more expensive than your own company. In the future, it will certainly be one of the possibilities for a firm currently owned by the state to find a strong partner or to privatise a stake. This opportunity must also be seriously discussed. The interest of the State in aviation should be that the necessary connections should be ensured in the light of competition. If this has been successful, then the country will certainly no longer need to be a market participant and be involved in making money in this way. It is now clear that what we predicted after the release of Estonian Air's market share happened. Competition is good for consumers, and the number of passengers even increased at Tallinn Airport. The main question is what associations will be after a year or a half. We have also seen Lithuanian experience without a company based on the ground. The volume was then provided by low-cost airlines, some of the flight opportunities remained, but it is not in the economic interest to be able to fly only at noon and there are no good connections. The lesson was that if there is no competition on the ground, the carrier can come for passengers at any time and on terms, because these passengers will not disappear in the meantime, because they have not yet learned to fly. This is the experience we wanted to avoid in Estonia for people's comfort and economic development. In the future, we will be able to ensure that competition is maintained in the market for passengers. To this end, we should continue to consider all the possibilities mentioned above, both cooperation at the level of the partnership company and privatisation. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U148	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for the informative part of the answers. In answer to the first question, you mentioned these amounts of aid and the years. This aid was granted before the end of 2012. In answer to the second question, you said that only in December 2012 was the Commission met. Let me get this straight. These 29 letters were written and 14 meetings only took place since autumn 2012? You didn't tell me the dates. Was there such a post-factum reaction? It was still State aid before 2012. What information was based on this misinterpretation? I missed the term you used when you said what the government thought it was, but afterwards it turned out to be a public procurement. Please repeat this!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U150	First of all, the dates. Indeed, these 29 official letters have been written since 3 December 2012 and beyond. The formal meetings started on 4 December 2012 and continued from there. I didn't understand the exact place you asked about in my speech, but I assume you mean that at that time it was probably considered an investment in the company and the rescue aid loan was discussed. You must have asked about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U151	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U152	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister, thank you for your answers. But as of today, can you tell me how many former Estonian Air employees have gone to work for a new company or had a job in the Nordic Aviation Group? You also talked about the lines. Several other airlines have taken possession of these profitable routes. You mentioned Copenhagen, which is one of the most profitable routes from Tallinn. Don't you think that the Nordic Aviation Group might lose the best lines with this strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U153	Thank you. First of all, I'm talking about employees. However, the recruitment of employees is carried out by a new company, using a number of personnel companies through which employees are recruited through a competition. Even if they had political pressure to recruit only Estonian Air's employees, it would not be possible to do so in this form. Estonian Air's employees will certainly participate in the competitions, and they will be hired or already hired in the new company, because, let's say, people with Estonian-speaking aviation experience have some advantage in this area. Of course, much also depends on company choices, such as aeroplane types, and taking exams. However, Nordic Aviation Group is an airline company, it does not yet have its own aircraft. In fact, his partners are a number of companies from which 'wet-leasing' planes are transferred, which means that planes are leased with crews. The crews must comply with the rules of this airline. It's a real situation. If you want an exact number, I think you can ask for it from Nordic Aviation, they'll probably be able to give it. But, as I was saying, this is a start-up business, taking the wind down, as they said here. What was the other half of the question, I'm sorry? Lines. As regards the routes, I think that Nordic Aviation is following the history of Estonian Air and everything else, it must certainly be a profitable company, a commercial company. If he sees that a line doesn't pay off or that, in the long run, it can just mean spending the owner's money, because that line isn't going to make a profit, then he's definitely going to have to make a change in the network as a business company and everything else. As I mentioned, they have made such decisions, and these decisions will probably come in the future. The ministry can't say that they're going to go there or another place. I guess they're gonna have to be able to appreciate all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U154	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U155	Good manager! Good Minister, thank you for a very interesting and concrete answer. As I see it, there has been a very busy activity, 29 letters + 14 meetings + robinal rescue loans. But earlier, my colleague, Mr Parts, spoke here and his view was that the rules on state aid should be amended. So when did he come up with that position? Did it smell like there was a lot of meetings and correspondence, but we were of the opinion that the rules under which action was carried out should be changed, or instead of right-hand traffic, the left-hand side should be introduced, and the crash was in hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U156	Thank you. As I pointed out in the introduction to my reply, everything will become somewhat more understandable and perhaps more traceable in time if the full text of the Commission decision is available to all. On this basis, you can carry out longer tests. If we want to draw the right conclusions, maybe we shouldn't rush it. But I think the main problem is that Estonia saw these rules differently at the time, and at one point what was supposed to be restructuring changed to enlargement. The same plan was not consistently followed. That was probably part of the problem. The Commission saw this in one way, Estonian decision-makers in another. There was a normal debate and the result was that the Commission made the decision it made.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U157	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U158	President-in-Office of the Council. Honorable Minister! At the time, when it turned out that the Government of the Republic and the European Commission had different concepts of State aid, our government and the Ministry also used some of the help or advice of top lawyers, or was it based on their own wisdom? Do you have any information at your disposal that says anything about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U159	Thank you! I know that Estonian Air used the help of lawyers in this dispute, yes. I know that, but I haven't specifically asked about it. I can confirm that we are currently using the opinions of the best lawyers in Estonia to avoid possible risk points, and we are also asking for economic assessments. We will also use Brussels's assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U160	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U161	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. As Prime Minister Rõivas and Juhan Parts have also stressed, in your replies and speeches you repeatedly stressed that the routes that we have chosen are crucial and bring great benefits to the economy. As regards the benefits or damage to the economy, your party partner, Siim Kallas, said in a New Year's Radio Interview that you should give him a starting point and he will prove any number. I have the impression that there has been an axiotic view from both the current and previous governments that we need our airlines, no matter what costs and in any case. I am not arguing directly about this, but I would like to see alternative calculations. Have they been made? Would it be possible to manage more favourably, for example by subsidising routes or by some other means?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U162	Thank you. These analyses have been carried out, they have even been public in a shorter version. I will try to speak very briefly, because I think we have talked about this before, I mean in the Riigikogu. There are certainly alternatives. I believe that there is one clear alternative, as I have also referred to, to possible cooperation between the Baltic States. That's one way. We asked AirBaltic what it would cost. I hope that this offer was just 14.5 million euros per year and a half with a certain network, which would actually have meant a net cost of ten million euros per year. The manner in which all this should be realised was not apparent from this tender. Public line procurement is, in my view, also an opportunity, and we considered it. This is minus the lack of time and flexibility. Time is limited, so I say it very simplisticly, it will take about six months to organise this procurement, and it can only be organised in certain cases, when the routes are underflightd. In fact, this means that in many cases companies have used this procedure in such a way that, at the last moment, these procurements have either been screwed up or have been delayed by disputes for so long that the desired result cannot be achieved. Just a while ago, some procurements went back to Europe. This means that there are alternatives, but these rules are not so good or, let's say, they cannot be used so flexibly. We have also discussed with several officials at European level so that these rules can be more flexible, especially when ordering lines. You asked if Estonia had to have its own airline. Personally, I think it is primarily in the interests of the Estonian economy and people if there were an airline based in Tallinn. It does not have to belong to the state, the state does not have to own it, it could be any airline that complies with European rules, can manage and flies from here in times acceptable to our people and in the most cost-effective way possible. That should be the goal. So if this market works and there is a competition that allows people to have a good service, I will see no problem, as I referred to at the end of my speech, if either cooperation or partnership is sought or privatisation is carried out. I think all these opportunities are there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U163	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your specific answers. You have stressed here on several occasions today that it may be too early to draw any final conclusions. On the other hand, you have stressed the need for us to learn and draw our conclusions from all the bad things that happened. Does the Ministry or anyone else intend to order a more detailed analysis of the whole case, including why Estonia still failed to explain the justification of the state aid? Who could order it, and what would be its starting point?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U165	Thank you. I confirm my agreement with you. I think that's the right idea. At the moment, we have focused largely on this, at least in the period following the rescue operations, we focused on getting all things organized as smoothly as possible. Now the company is already operating independently. The stress of the ministry, as well as its role, has slightly diminished. But there's still a start-up period, and as we can see, the beginning goes over the rocks and stumps. I know that the National Audit Office will carry out the first more comprehensive review. The National Audit Office is certainly competent and critical enough about everything; there is no doubt about that. But my personal conviction is that if there are grounds for criticism, it is better to correct mistakes sooner than later. That's what I've been saying in public. We have now carried out analyses of the start-up of a new business and economic decisions. We have commissioned business plans and other external evaluations. I think that if the first end is completed, perhaps the present, and perhaps to some extent the future is certain, we can, if necessary, order an additional analysis of where the external glare is needed, of whether we could have been more successful, if there is more to the report of the National Audit Office. As far as the future is concerned, I think we have already learned so much from the fact that European rules must be dealt with either way. Aviation rules are now coming up more broadly, but what is at issue about the integration of different regions is perhaps not at issue to this extent. When I answer the next question, I will also describe the difference between the quality of European aviation associations in old and new countries, which is quite large. It is also acknowledged in Europe that Estonia is still one of the weakest countries connected to others. We should ask ourselves this, too, I know that there are other countries in the same situation that would like to ask this question, whether the market is actually exactly the same in the heart and at the periphery of Europe, whether we need to do something, whether we have any opportunities. Of course, we have to manage on the basis of market rules now, there is no doubt about that. But it all has to be dealt with anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U166	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U167	Thank you. Dear Minister for Economic Affairs, The previous question was about the Development Fund, and now we're talking about Estonian Air. The development fund was set up in 2007, Estonian Air's activities were loss-making as of 2006. It's too long. How long do you think it's gonna take until you realize that the new company is standing on its feet, or you're gonna have to wait seven or eight years again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U168	Thank you. The business plan provides that in two or three years the company should reach zero, from there it should reach profit. The company must be delivered on the basis of a business plan. This means that they still have to make decisions on the basis of profitability, but of course, so that customers do not become intimidated. There are certainly some types of aircraft in aviation, or there are better ways to pay, but our clients do not always like it. Well, they sometimes have to balance out there. But it has to be a profit-making company, that's what it's for. As I said before, I would not rule out that at some point we find that the Baltic partnership is a very good idea. Perhaps at some point we can see that someone with a strong background in aviation, tourism or anywhere wants to be a partner. Finally, we can also privatise the company's minority or majority shareholding. Once again, our interest should be a company based in Tallinn, which ensures good connections and offers competition. It shouldn't be that all airlines know that passengers aren't going anywhere, they're always available here, come whenever you want. That should be the goal. If this objective is guaranteed, I think we have done well. As has been said, the economic benefits of its airline and the functioning of the aviation market are in any case greater than the money we have now and before contributed to these air links. I don't think there's even a reason to complain financially here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U169	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U170	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This is about Infortar. Has Infortar, a private company, invested in a new airline? What is the role and purpose of Infortar in creating a new airline?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U171	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I haven't invested. As far as I and the public are concerned, Infortar considered entering the airline for a year and a half, hoping that Estonian Air would be a positive decision, as was the general public expectation. At one point, however, they drew the line because these expectations did not materialise. To their praise, they were unusually aware that they were willing to hand over the information and knowledge gathered during this year and a half to the state free of charge. So we got all the information they were able to gather. For that, honor and praise to them. What then happened? Those members of the board of Infortar who had worked on preparing for the creation of an aviation company are all going to have an emotional wall at some point if you do something, but do not come out, and who came to Estonia to help free of charge, we took our salary at one point. I think it all went right in that sense. Can Infortar be considered here in the future? Why not, they have a great deal of experience, but, like any other company, the activity at one point must be market-based in order for companies to compete. We can privatize, and we can consider anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U172	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U173	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Aviation is regulated by market rules and cannot be overlooked in any way. It is clear that the competitors SAS and AirBaltic are doing everything they can to make sure that this new company is not able to deliver on the market so easily, they create more routes, etc. They certainly have the advantage because they have more capital and more capacity. How to resist it is a question of its own. How many routes are not served by other airlines, does Nordic Aviation serve? Or is there no place where only they fly?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U174	I don't think they're going anywhere near the airport now. There are, as you have noted, and you yourself have noted, overlaps in the line networks. For example, AirBaltic has said that they actually deliberately'shadow' Nordic Aviation flights. As I mentioned, the Copenhagen line at SAS and Nordic Aviation overlapd and there were changes made by Nordic Aviation. So I guess these overlaps happen, but I think you're absolutely right in the sense that no one makes life easy for a new company. They've got to be so good on their own, they can handle it. I think the Estonian state has done well and the company has done well. If there is competition in this market, the company will be worth something and we will privatise it one day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U175	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U176	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about Swissair today. Swissair's glorious history ended in 2001. Swissair was Swiss national pride, Swissair was an airline that was truly luxurious in its time, and driving it was a matter of personal pride, especially for the Swiss. But then Swissair's leaders picked up and decided to go on the so-called hunter strategy, i.e. they began to take over the air routes with enormous force and expansion. This strategy was fatal to them. So in 2001, when aviation was experiencing a crisis due to the events of 11 September in New York, Swissair became failing and basically went bankrupt. This ended the glorious story of Swissair, and it was a bang for the entire Swiss people. People came to the streets, demanded responsibility and punishment. Indeed, those who were then in charge of Swissair went to trial. They were later acquitted, but at least the issue of responsibility was dealt with "publicly." The fate of Swissair was that he changed his name. Now, of course, Switzerland has air connections, but it is Lufthansa who owns Swissair's successor. This example would have been very instructive to Estonian decision-makers in 2009. One national pride had gone through its destruction, and another national pride, our Estonian Air, was falling into a very deep pit. It is possible that if our decision-makers at the time had well known the story of Swissair, they would no longer have gone to state aid and to waste millions of euros, and we would not have had the situation we have today. Our aviation would be in a much better position and we would be in touch with Europe, no matter who the airline owned. On the contrary, the strategy chosen was the same as that chosen by Swissair, and was in extreme difficulties. Why are we joking with this Estonian Air? I want to emphasise this once again: we are doing this because we are learning from what has happened... For a little while, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U177	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U178	...and making a new airline wouldn't make the mistakes that were made before. I would also like to draw attention to the question of a good colleague, Mr Lutsep, about the role of a private company such as Infortar in the future of the Nordic Aviation Group. I very much hope that it will not happen that one airline will be built for taxpayers' money, and then there will be a private operator who will privatise it on very favourable terms without taking major risks. Secondly, I very much want the employees of Estonian Air, who have been loyal to this company, which has now gone bankrupt, to be able to continue working in a company based in Tallinn. Thirdly, I want us to have very good connections with Europe and we should not have to pay much more for these associations from other European countries. This is also one thing our government could stand for in Europe: that we people living in peripheral areas have just as good conditions as people living in centres, just as good connections, and we should not pay more for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U179	Thank you. There's no more calls. Does the Minister have a wish to speak? No, it's not. We're done answering the fifth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U180	Let's keep going. The sixth item on the agenda. Inquiry submitted by members of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, Henn Põlleaasa, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla about the launch of Nordic Aviation. It is also presented to Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. In the name of the heirs, I ask Martin Helme to speak to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U181	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Dear sleepless colleagues! We are indeed presenting an inquiry, which may have been answered in part today, but nevertheless, repeating must have been the mother of wisdom. Due to the insolvency of Estonian Air and the launch of the new national airline Nordic Aviation, the Estonian taxpayer has had to bear a very large cost. There is a risk that the new national airline will repeat the same mistakes that caused Estonian Air to cease operating. We therefore ask the following questions: What budgetary resources has the state already spent and plans to spend in the visible future in connection with the establishment of the Nordic Aviation Group? Will Nordic Aviation receive or have received any assets or funds from Estonian Air, will it take over any of the Estonian Air's contracts? In what way does the Nordic Aviation Group's business plan differ from that of Estonian Air in order to prevent Estonian Air's insolvency from being repeated in the new company? How is it ensured that, even in the case of a new company, it will not become clear in a few years' time that the funds placed by the State in the company will be declared prohibited State aid? In your opinion, do the European Union rules allow Estonia to run a state airline at all? If not, do you consider it possible to change these rules? Has the Ministry done an analysis of the events that caused the termination of Estonian Air? If so, what conclusions have been reached? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U182	Thank you. Please, Minister Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will answer the questions that have just been put here. The first question: 'What budgetary resources has the state already spent and plans to spend in the visible future in connection with the establishment of the Nordic Aviation Group? 'The 2015 Order of the Government of the Republic authorised the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure to establish a company with the sole participation of the Republic of Estonia with the business name of AS Nordic Aviation Group and to contribute EUR 40.7 million, of which EUR 1 million is the nominal value of the share and EUR 39.7 million is the premium. No more budgetary resources are foreseen in the visible future in connection with the establishment of Nordic Aviation. The second question: Does Nordic Aviation receive or have any assets or resources from Estonian Air, will it take over any of the Estonian Air agreements? ' No. Estonian Air did not take over any assets or liabilities at the time of the start-up of the new company, nor did the Estonian Air contracts take over for the new airline. Most business-to-business similarities, such as the partial overlap between customers or partners, are due to sector specifics, limited markets and general market logic. You will understand that it is inevitable that customers, i.e. the people of Estonia, will overlap, and some suppliers will overlap, as there are simply no alternatives on the market. However, companies operate on a different business plan and a different strategy. There is some overlap between the two airlines, but market demand determines which connections are focused on. European capitals and economic centres or major connections are the same, they, as has been said, will not change in six months, as the interest of entrepreneurs or Estonian people will not change to fly there or back from there. As I mentioned earlier, just in case and to surprise the market, the company should not be flying to other cities instead of Copenhagen, Brussels and Amsterdam. The on-board teams are organized by Nordic Aviation competition and recruitment through personnel mediation companies, as well as by open competitions organised in Estonia, to be correct. The same applies to property, for example. The acquisition of assets from Estonian Air to a new airline is neither planned nor taking place. Where assets held by third parties are used, these activities shall be clearly market-based. Nordic Aviation has clarified the similarities and differences between Nordic Aviation and Estonian Air and ordered legal analyses from three leading law firms in Estonia to assess and consciously reduce the risks arising from the similarity of companies. You will understand that all risks in a limited market and in life can never be reduced to zero. However, it is currently concluded that risks are limited. Nordic Aviation will continue to meet the objectives and business plan set for it when it is set up, and will do everything in its power to mitigate both legal and commercial risks, with the company's objective, of course, to make a profit. The third question: "How does the Nordic Aviation Group's business plan differ from that of Estonian Air in order to prevent Estonian Air's insolvency from happening again in the new company? ' Aviation is an extremely complex area of activity. In essence, airlines from all European countries have been in difficulty. The causes are mainly due to the overall economic environment. Nordic Aviation plans are market-based and have also been assessed by competent market participants, such as those assessed by Lufthansa Consulting as an independent external evaluator. The external evaluator also pointed out, as mentioned earlier, the National Audit Office. The state also considered Baltic cooperation. I'm sure it's one of the options, and that's what we talked about when we discussed the previous question. Certainly Nordic Aviation needs to make an effort and look for ways to work as cost-effectively as possible, a business plan is foreseen and has been updated once to make the company's work more efficient. Question 4: How is it ensured that, even in the case of a new company, it will not become clear in a few years' time that the funds placed by the State in the company will be declared prohibited State aid? ' The founding of a new company has consistently involved top-level lawyers from several law firms, including Brussels lawyers and external financial experts, who, on the basis of their analyses and positions, knew that the new company was not State aid. The European Commission has also been informed about the establishment of a new company and has been in dialogue with it. I am sure we will continue to exchange information, and I have also put it to the heart of people in this area in our house, because it is important. Question 5: 'Do you think that the rules of the European Union allow Estonia to consider a state airline at all, if not, do you consider it possible to change these rules? 'Aerospace companies can also be operated profitablely under European Union rules. That's the yardstick. At the moment, we must take into account and follow the current guidelines. When the relevant rules of the European Union are changed in the Commission, Estonia will certainly contribute to this, because the figures also show that connections in the outermost regions of Europe are worse than in the heart, and this puts the countries, customers and companies in these regions in an unequal position and may hinder development. Looking at the facts given by the European Union itself, the number of business connections between the 15 old EU Member States and the 13 new EU Member States varies seven and a half times. In addition, Estonia's connection to the rest of Europe is one of the weakest in the European Union. According to the 2014 data, we were the penultimate in terms of destinations within the European Union with 27 connections and the weakest in terms of connections outside the European Union with six connections. There is probably agreement in this Chamber that something is still a little wrong in this picture and better integration is needed for economic development. The sixth question: "Has the Ministry carried out an analysis of the events leading to the closure of Estonian Air, if so, which conclusions have been reached? ' Analyses have been commissioned to challenge State aid decisions from both Estonian and Brussels law firms, which will be forwarded to the government, who will then be able to decide on an appeal to the Court of Justice. The decision will probably come this week, and then you can introduce it further. However, it can be said in advance that the idea that arguing in court would bring Estonian Air back is not correct. It's not gonna do that. In the future, as has been said before, we must also contribute to discussions at European Union level on how to ensure good and high-quality connections in the outermost regions of Europe. Their quality is important for the economy, for comfort and also for security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U184	Thank you. You have questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U185	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! I think we've been talking here for about two and a half hours about the fact that Estonian Air and now Nordic Aviation have to be paid for, otherwise we have no connections. You have now said that it is possible to operate profitably in Estonia, while at the same time our connections are the worst. I just don't think that's right. If all the answers come to the point that we have to pay for it, because otherwise we have no connections, and we still hope that the next company will be profitable, I don't see the logic here. But I have a specific question from a completely different area. Estonian Air had leased aircraft and these same aircraft have now been used by Nordic Aviation. He hasn't taken them directly, but as I understand, correct me if I'm wrong, these are the same planes. Can you tell us a little bit more about the backgrounds?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U186	The first part of your question was rather a statement. The business plan and calculations, which have been made and assessed by external experts, as I mentioned, show that the airline based in Tallinn is able to operate profitably. That's one. If you are saying that we should simply pay for it, then, yes, it is also possible, for this to be done by line procurement and to consider buying-in some lines and certain frequencies of flights. As I mentioned earlier, it is a long and complex process. The cost of one line per year is around EUR 2 million. I probably didn't say that amount before. This gives you the chance to calculate for yourself how much it costs to buy out lines like this. Now to the planes. The planes didn't belong to Estonian Air. In fact, they were leased from KredEx, Canada, if that is the case. They had been leased from the Canadian Export Agency on the basis of those decisions and had been made by an intermediary to which they belonged under that agreement. In fact, the other Estonian state-owned company has taken over this credit agreement, so these aircraft are not owned by the Nordic Aviation Group. If this other company organises a competition and offers these planes on the market, it must itself find the optimal solution to use them, whoever wins this competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U187	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U188	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It was said that the State had not invested anything in a new airline other than share capital. At the same time, you said that a number of Estonian and foreign lawyers, legal scientists, were hired to ensure that the sad stories of Estonian Air were not repeated. How much will it cost, and for how long is the use of such legal aid planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U189	Thank you. These legal analyses are commissioned by the companies themselves, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs can do so if necessary. If you want a summary, you can definitely do it at some point. I think that these analyses must be just enough to have the conviction that, as has been said several times in this Chamber today, we are consciously avoiding, as far as possible, the risks that the owner of the company is a state and that taxpayers' money has been contributed to it. Of course, they also need to be done as little as possible so as not to overspend taxpayers' money on analyses. This principle is followed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U190	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I wanted to ask you something else, but I heard you say that we are a real dormant or a bog, if I correctly understood that we are the last in the 28 countries in terms of flights within the European Union, and our connections with the rest of the world are such that we are very sad in spite of the wild efforts that ended with the status of black and scabby sheep. How do we get this far or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U192	Thank you. I can't even answer a philosophical question like that. In general, as a result of what we ourselves have done and how the rest of the world has done, I would suggest so. But the facts indeed show that Estonia's connections are still at the back of the table, if not to say that in some respects we are even the last. These are the data for 2014, I stress. We are the weakest in terms of connections outside the European Union, and in 2014 we had six connections. If you look at the European Union as a whole, these are the Commission's own facts, in fact, that the difference between 15, say, the older Member State or the Member State closer to the core and 13 new Member States is 7.5 times the difference. It still gives an understanding of why access to markets and the opportunities for doing business, and perhaps free movement, are poorer. I think that this is certainly an issue that needs to be addressed in Europe, and I think it will also be understood in Europe. But the other side is, of course, that aviation is still based on market rules. If it were to go into such a quiet sneaking, so that everyone would continue to invest taxpayers' money in their businesses, then eventually this market would go completely out of hand. There's gotta be some kind of healthy balance there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U193	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U194	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The report by Juhan Parts revealed that Estonian Air had a market share of up to 40% on the best days. What is the current market share of Nordic Aviation and how much market share is expected to gain better connections to destinations, better quality of service and profit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U195	Thank you. Estonian Air, yes, maybe on the best days there were 40% in the area, and in the end, its market share was still more like 20%, maybe a quarter, 25,27%, like this. But it is worth knowing that with commercial flights and perhaps the flights necessary for the economy, he was definitely a very large player in the market. This meant, in economic terms, that holiday trips and all such trips could otherwise have been made, but if it was necessary for people to go in the morning and come back in the evening to have direct flights, then that was precisely what Estonian Air needed. As far as I have had contacts over the past six months, I dare say that, at least under Palmer's leadership, Estonian Air would indeed have managed most of its core business if it had not had this gap. You could say that, yes. In that sense, Juhan Parts had a blade in it. Now, what's the market share? I can't tell by heart, I think the December data was released somewhere. I think that around 15% is now the market share of Nordic Aviation, but in the future there will certainly be a desire to increase market share. First, according to the first part of the business plan, it must become an airline. He's got to get to the fact that he's got his own planes and crews. Perhaps it should be understood that the current phase, which followed a rescue operation, is the so-called 'wet loss', or leasing aircraft with crews, the most expensive thing in aviation at all. In fact, it should still be that he leases his planes and gets his crew on it, then he can move on. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U196	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U197	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Today, in the Committee on the Environment, we discussed a few things that will take place in two years' time, when Estonia is the leader of the entire European Union. You know, I'm listening to what we're talking about, and I'm a little scared of how we're gonna get out, when the big events that we're gonna have, let's say, 120-150 people who want to come here in the morning and leave tonight or who's gonna go home next morning. Don't you have any fear of what might happen? Are we gonna get people on buses here or something? Perhaps you can comment on this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U198	I think it's definitely right to look to the future. If Estonia holds the Presidency of the European Union at the beginning of 2018, it would be somewhat odd if we somehow brought people by bus from Riga or Helsinki to Tallinn. Yeah, it'd be weird, I agree. We're here in the meantime repairing and renovating the airport and the runways. Not because of the Presidency, but because the number of passengers is increasing and better quality is also expected. I think it would certainly be problematic to have a Presidency without good associations, which would still be extremely peculiar. But in some ways, it would be ironic again if Europe understood that it might be necessary to take a bus through another city for a few hours. But I hope that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U199	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. My colleagues don't have any requests. We're done answering the sixth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U200	Let's go to the seventh question. This is an inquiry submitted by Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Henn Põljaasa, Uno Kaskpeiti, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla, members of the Riigikogu, about the interference of foreign diplomat in Estonian internal affairs. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljuranna. Mart Helme, the speaker on behalf of the inquisitors, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U201	Minister, thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The first version of this inquiry was submitted to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu as early as November. For reasons that we did not understand, the Chairman of the Riigikogu then found that the topic of foreign affairs did not fall within the competence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, so the inquiry was returned to us on two occasions. To this day, we cannot understand this logic, and it is unacceptable for us to have the censorship applied by the President of the Riigikogu in relation to questions made by members of the Riigikogu. However, we have now come to the point where we can report this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and listen to his answers. This inquiry was initiated on 3 November 2015 by the article "Rassism Touches Us All' by Chever Voltmer, then temporary assistant of the U.S. Embassy, appearing in the opinion section of the evening. In our opinion, the US diplomat intervened with this article undoubtedly in the internal affairs of the Republic of Estonia, which, according to Article 41 (1) of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, is an inappropriate activity for the diplomat. In this regard, we ask you to answer two questions that I am not going to read out here in terms of saving time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U202	Thank you. I ask for an inquiry to be answered by Foreign Minister Marina Kaljuranna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U203	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I thank you for the questions and answer them. The first question was whether it is planned to protest to the US embassy because of the interference of foreign diplomat in Estonian internal affairs. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! 'Racism touches all of us,' wrote the U.S. embassy's temporary assistant in the article on 3 November 2015. You can only agree with that. As regards the protection of human rights and the promotion of democratic values in society, Estonia, the US and all other societies based on democratic values are clearly opposed to all forms of racism, intolerance and discrimination. It is everyone's duty to point out possible problems in these areas as early as possible. This is the task of all of us, including the elected representatives of the Estonian people. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will monitor what foreign representatives say, and if necessary we will respond to it. This case cannot be interpreted as interference in our internal affairs, as it is an opinion on an issue that overlaps with the values protected by our own constitution. Thus, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not intend to protest to the US Embassy for the article in the Evening Paper. Secondly, the Conservative People's Party Group asked whether it was intended to invite the U.S. Embassy's temporary assistant to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to give further explanations on these matters. For the reasons already mentioned above, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not intend to invite the US Embassy's temporary agent to provide explanations to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U204	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U205	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You've been an active diplomat yourself. I suppose you certainly know better than the wider public, or even the ordinary politicians, what unwritten rules apply to diplomats when they operate in their country of residence. I don't think there's a question here at all. Apart from international conventions, there are also unwritten rules that say that diplomats do not intervene in a sharp political discussion in their country of residence, as there is no doubt a debate on immigration in Estonia. So do you really find that he did not intervene in political discussions in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U206	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your clarification. Yes, there are rules that diplomats do not interfere with the internal affairs of other countries. Yes, there are rules that when diplomats comment and comment, how they do it. As I said, this case concerned not allowing racism, intolerance and discrimination. In this context, as the U.S. Embassy's temporary assistant wrote about it and expressed his opinion, I do not see any interference in our internal affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U207	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U208	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! I do not remember this article literally, of course, but it was clearly incriminating and accusing the Estonian public of racism. If such a position is presented by a diplomat, in such a general way, by accusing the entire nation, it is absolutely unacceptable. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have any information about an incident where the people of Estonia, a representative of the people or a permanent resident of Estonia could have dealt with some racist act on which a representative of the US embassy could charge us with such accusations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U209	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I too read this article very carefully, especially after I had received an inquiry. I did not read the clear accusation of racism throughout Estonia. I didn't count what you just said. As far as specific incidents are concerned, in conversations between them, diplomats from other countries have mentioned to me cases where black foreigners have been poorly spoken on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. But I refer to what the Air Force Commander mentioned in one of his articles and posts, the Minister of Defence and the Commander of the Defence Forces, have given very concrete examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U210	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U211	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I'd be very careful spreading rumors. In the event of such accusations, the police will go to the police, make a statement, and the Police and Border Guard Board will continue to deal with it. However, the United States is undoubtedly our very strong ally; they are our friends. But I'm bringing in a new aspect. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs consider it diplomatically correct when the political advisor of a foreign embassy invites new Members to coffee via telephone conversation four days after the elections? Do you consider this to be a proper diplomatic communication when representatives of foreign embassies invite fresh members of the Riigikogu to coffee? I know this from my own hands, from my own experience, very well. What would be the attitude if the Embassy of the Russian Federation, for example, did this to our MEPs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U212	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I'm certainly not here to spread rumors. I was asked if diplomats from other countries had spoken to me about such incidents and I answered, yes, I have been spoken to on this matter. As regards the relations of members of the Riigikogu with embassies, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs always supports the fact that embassies communicate directly and directly with members of the Riigikogu, as we also support their communication with representatives of civil society, members of government, school youths, students, or all social groups. This is the only way they will get a better picture of Estonia, of what is happening here. Whether a particular member of the Riigikogu was invited to a meeting on how he was invited, whether he went there and what was said there, I really don't know anything about it, and I find it very difficult to evaluate here. I certainly believe that an invitation must be made with due respect and dignity. If, for any reason, someone finds that he was not invited with respect and dignity, the invitation must be rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U213	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U214	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! Yesterday, at the end of the week of national broadcasting, the internationally known baritone performed and sang Curly Strings' song 'By Brown by June 2nd' in Estonian. The hall was full of VIPs, and all the VIPs laughed like hell. How do you interpret it when a black man sings that he tans himself brown for the first or second June, and our VIPs and the Order Bears laugh and it's on TV in the big picture? Can it be interpreted as racism or other derisive behaviors of colored people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U215	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I didn't see the concert or the show you were referring to last night. But I listened to your description, and I'd like to take it from the fact that people have a good sense of humor. But once again, I didn't see this concert or this clip, so this interpretation is my very subjective opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U216	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U217	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I hadn't seen this article before, but I just read it. Correct me if I'm wrong. An American diplomat here writes about a racist study film and an American mink. Let me get this straight. This is about the time a respected Maestro Rein Maran made a movie about the American mink rejecting the European mink. Is he a racist? Or am I wrong and we're talking about another movie?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U218	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. The film that the U.S. Embassy employee hinted at is not your named Maran nature film about the spread of mink, but it was an advertising film commissioned by the Ministry of the Environment to introduce young people to alien species living in Estonia, where a mink was given for example. So this wasn't the movie you were talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U219	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mart Helme as representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U220	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. The Tibetan proverb says: a thousand monks, a thousand religions. We have exactly the same story: one article, several different readings. It is quite obvious that this same story of mink has been extended to the whole of Estonia and given as an example of how intolerable racism flourishes in Estonia, and the older brother of the United States, through his diplomatic mission, must call the unfortunate forest people to order. It is offensive to us; it is unacceptable to us as a sovereign state. It is very embarrassing if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not understand this, but it is understood that we need to raise our hands to our ears, recognise even the existence of non-existent problems, and act quickly and enthusiastically to eliminate problems that do not exist. We all know here that there is no racism in Estonia. There may be some hooligans in Estonia who are making noises and insults, but it is not racism that affects all of us. It is up to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to explain to foreign diplomats who have such a misconception that we do not have such a thing here. As for the tips of the high military, they're rumors and they'll be rumors until they find me on white. Please, the same high-ranking American diplomats and military personnel who claim that American soldiers have been insulted here, threatened or whatever it is, bring evidence, turn to our law enforcement authorities. All our ministers and other things like to keep saying that Estonia is the rule of law. If Estonia is a rule of law, there are legal mechanisms, not rumours, not Facebook posts, which accuse their people of not being able to behave and endangering their allies. No, we're not endangering our allies. We have placed our skin on the market in Africa, Asia and also in Europe. We have fulfilled our allied duties with embarrassing precision. You don't wanna be shivering because when drunken people hang out in a tavern somewhere, the last argument a drunk person might have is that the other one's a fucking nigger. It doesn't put our allies at risk. If this is not understood at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Defence Forces, then the office must be put down and another agency better managed. There is no racism in Estonia. There's no need to shake ashes on your head and pretend like we're here and we're gonna have to start losing it now. This is such a Soviet attitude, I can say at my mature age. Even in Soviet times, people were not as ambitious as they are now. Get it together! Pull yourself together, act as it is appropriate for the representatives of the sovereign state! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U221	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U222	Mr President, few colleagues. I wasn't planning on coming here, but I looked up this article during the Foreign Minister's speech, and I'm shocked. There's a reference, yes, to a racist study film. I repeat, I have made many nature films with Maestro Rein Maran. One film really was about American and European mink, how a bigger and more aggressive American mink has killed a European mink from all over Europe, including Estonia. You can use it to make videos of all kinds. If it's racist, I don't know what to say. Remember, once they were raccoons, they came from the east, and they did the same job here, drove the badgers out of here. I can't remember exactly whether Karl Vaino or who was in trouble, what was right here is being compared. This too could have been considered racist when raccoons ate our badgers out. It's all my message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U223	Thank you. There's no more calls. Does the Minister have a wish to speak? No, it's not. We have finished dealing with the seventh item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U224	Let's go to the eighth item. Inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla of the positions of the Estonian Government regarding the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty and the occupation of the areas arising from the Peace Treaty. An inquiry has been submitted to the Foreign Minister. On behalf of the questioners of Jaak Madison, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U225	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! On 26 November last year, we presented an inquiry to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljuranna, whose topic is the position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty and the occupation of the territories resulting from the Peace Treaty. It follows from the arguments of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. On 25 November 2015, the Riigikogu processed the draft law on ratification of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation. Marina Kaljurand, Minister of Foreign Affairs, presented the border agreement and answered the questions of the MPs as a representative of the government. In response to repeated questions about the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty, the Minister confirmed that the Treaty will apply even when the new border agreement is ratified, the peace agreement will remain in force and will only change the state border. The Foreign Minister, unfortunately, was unable or unwilling to give any specific answers to questions about the occupation of the land resulting from the Tartu Peace Treaty. The Minister said in reply to the questions concerning occupation: 'I also assure you that you may be legally right if you say that these areas have been occupied to this day. I wouldn't use that word, but you have the right to use it. There must be lawyers who approve of your interpretation. ' The Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia does not wish to address different interpretations, but to clarify the positions of the Government of the Republic. We have therefore asked three questions. First of all, do you confirm that 5.2% of Estonia's area is occupied under the current Tartu Peace Treaty? Secondly, is the government planning to make a claim for damages or compensation for occupied areas? Thirdly, why has a border been agreed in the border agreement to be ratified between the two countries, which leaves the territories of the Russian Federation under the Tartu Peace Treaty, without any compensation? I would like to draw the Minister's attention here to the fact that the next question you are going to answer comes from your arguments on compensation claims. Therefore, I would advise you to be very careful and careful and to be guided by the mandate given to you by the Riigikogu in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U226	Thank you. I ask the Foreign Minister of the Speaker Marina Kaljuranna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U227	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Speaking of occupation, I begin with the legal concept of occupation. The occupation is the integration of the territory of another country into the territory of the occupying country without the consent of another country. Thus, the occupation cannot be considered merely a legal concept; it must be regarded at the same time as both a legal and a political concept. In order to explain the Estonian state's policy on this issue, let me recall a few facts about our recent history. In 1992, national negotiations were opened with the Russian Federation to conclude agreements concerning both the withdrawal of Russian armed forces from Estonia and territorial issues at border talks. The Russian armed forces were removed in 1994 from a controlled area, i.e. a real area controlled by Estonia. The same approach was confirmed in the border negotiations in 1996 when the recovery of post-Tartu Peace Treaty areas was abandoned. The Riigikogu gave final approval to the progress of the state border and its connection in 2005, when the border treaties were first ratified. In doing so, the Riigikogu confirmed the principle that areas under the Tartu Peace Treaty will not be recovered from Russia. Non-subscription of territorial claims is also provided for in the currently pending border agreements of the Riigikogu. Those agreements and practices have resulted in a decision not to claim damages for those territories. They're all in the same documents I just mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U228	Thank you. You have questions. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U229	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! I recall that in 2005 the border agreement was ratified at first reading, but it did not enter into force. This agreement did not enter into force, i.e. we do not have a border agreement currently in force and we are again in front of exactly the same broken trough. There was also a preamble, where it was clearly stated that the Tartu Peace Treaty was in force. Therefore, we are talking, however, about areas that have not been surrendered to the Russian Federation. Are you sure that these areas are not occupied and we have voluntarily surrendered them? The second thing you said was that we have no claims for occupation damage. On what date did the Riigikogu decide that Estonia would not proceed with the calculation of the amount of occupation losses and the filing of a claim? Does the Minister of Justice lie when he says that the last mandate dates back to 2005? Who's lying now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U230	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I also said in my very first speech presenting the border treaties that the word 'ocupation' can be used in certain cases. Yeah, you can use it. I am currently pursuing the policies of the Estonian state and governments that have been in power since 1994, which have not provided for territorial claims or claims for damages. On this basis, a new text of the border agreements was also drawn up, which clearly stated that there are no territorial claims and that the Treaty will only change the Tartu Peace Treaty in terms of the progress of the border. These are the acts I follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U231	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U232	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You're convulsively avoiding the word 'ocupation'. That's why I have some questions. What miraculously did the Republic of Estonia end up in the Soviet Union at all, and how do you think the soldiers of the Soviet army who left here in 1994 came to the surface of the Republic of Estonia, not from the entire territory of Estonia, but only from a certain part? After all, both the Riigikogu and even the Supreme Council declared in their time that Estonia was occupied. You're going to live a whole new paradigm here. You're avoiding the word 'ocupation', and you're only giving us this round story about what the government has been talking about lately...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U233	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U234	That doesn't rule out the occupation. How do you think the Soviet army soldiers got here when there was no occupation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U235	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. There is no question of how Soviet soldiers came to be here on June 16, 1940. It was the occupation of Estonian territory, it was the annexation of Estonian territory. There is no two-way thinking here, I say it again, it was an occupation. The Soviet occupation was followed by the Nazi-German occupation, followed again by the Soviet occupation, which lasted until the restoration of Estonian statehood, until regaining independence in 1991. There is nothing questionable here; there is no question here; it is unambiguously clear; the government has spoken, talks and remains in support of this position. In my reply, I dealt with areas that, after the Tartu Peace Treaty, we do not demand back from Russia. I dealt with the status of these areas. With regard to their status, the practice of the state, the behaviour of the state, is very important. That is why I named 1992 when we started talking to Russia about both the withdrawal of the Soviet forces and the conclusion of the border agreements. In 1994, the troops were removed from the territory that Estonia actually controlled. This fact alone showed how those territories were dealt with, which were not recovered following the Tartu Peace Treaty. Since 1994, all governments have decided not to reclaim these territories. The text of this draft, which you are currently dealing with, in the text of the draft law on border agreements, clearly states that there are no territorial claims on each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U236	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U237	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. The more you talk, the more messed up I think it's gonna get. First of all, what you called the definition of occupation is actually the definition of an annexation. You didn't come up with the definition of occupation. Secondly, you say that the Republic of Estonia was restored in 1991. Can you at least say that it wasn't restored in all the legal territory? 5.2% of the territory did not restore Estonia's power. Now my question. We have so far not ratified the border treaty; this decision has not been made by the Riigikogu; some incomplete readings in previous years or decades do not count because we have not changed the border by the force of the law and have given up this territory. What's there now, is there an occupation or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U238	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Once again, I assure you that, in 1991, after the Soviet occupation, Estonia's independence was restored. Yes, in 1991 the Republic of Estonia was not restored within the limits that were in 1920 and 1940. The questions about the future territory of the Republic of Estonia, where the border will begin and how Russian troops will be taken out of the territory of Estonia were dealt with by intergovernmental delegations since 1992. Since 1994, no territorial claims have been submitted to Russia. The troops were also transferred from the territory under the control of the Republic of Estonia, not beyond the borders of the Tartu Peace Treaty.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U239	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U240	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I do not understand well what trouble you have that you cannot say that 5.2% of Estonia is still occupied. The fact that the troops were taken out of a certain territory under the relevant agreement is irrelevant. The fact that negotiations have been held and it has been stated that there are no territorial complaints is absolutely irrelevant. All of this has nothing to do with the fact that 5.2% of Estonia's territory is still under the control of Russia as a successor to the Soviet Union and we have not ratified this Treaty here and possibly not. Therefore, you have no choice, you must admit that when the occupation began in 1940 on the territory of Estonia, 5.2% still have it. Do you agree to acknowledge this and say clearly that yes, this 5.2% of Estonia is an occupied area until the ratification of the new border treaty, regardless of whether we demand it back or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U241	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I'll explain it again. The concepts of occupation and annexation are not only legal terms, but also have a political side. You can look at the political side, taking into account the behaviour and practice of the state and government. Our practice since 1994 has consistently been not to reclaim these territories and not to submit territorial claims to the Russian side.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U242	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U243	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It has been more than ten years since 1994, twenty years already, and the situation is now different. But the question is also what it is that we want to conclude a contract like this now without 5.2%. The question of inquiry was not that the territory should be recovered; it was about compensation. Do we really get nothing in return for what we give up? Usually there's a trade, there's a deal, there's something. What have we got, or what can we possibly get in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U244	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Of course, ratification of the border agreements is in your hands, and it is up to you whether or not these agreements will be ratified. The fact that the text of the border agreements is now what it is, and the result of the border negotiations is the fact that the government has presented to you. Governments have consistently, on several occasions, submitted border agreements for ratification. Yes, it has changed that the current border agreements no longer contain a preamble. Yes, it has changed that the text of the border agreements is partly open and it has been written that there are no territorial complaints. However, such agreements and this situation are the best result that the Estonian state was able to achieve in the negotiations with the Russian Federation. It is in our interest to ratify the agreements in this form. I call on you to do this so that the border agreements can be enforced once and we can set a permanent border between Estonia and Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U245	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. No further questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U246	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! I understand, of course, as a former diplomat why the Minister so panicked about avoiding the word 'ocupation'. The reason is very simple. But then he gets it from the Russians, the Americans, our European allies and others: 'Have you lost your mind? Do you want to start reclaiming the territory from the Russians? Are you and the Russians going to wage war over this territory? ' Isn't that right? But the truth is, we're not going to have a war, we're not going to demand back something we can't claim right now. But we shouldn't give anything away once and for all. The situation was completely different in 1994. We'd only been out of occupation for a few years. From the occupation! Perhaps in today's politically correct world, the word has disappeared from the lexic at all. We were out of occupation, we had great goals: NATO and the European Union. Almost no one had recognised us as a serious country yet. The world was completely different. In 2016, the situation is so dramatically different that we do not even have the point of talking about what was 22 years ago. We don't have the problems that were then. We have other problems: how to apprehend our people in Estonia; how to save the Estonian economy from the Euro Directives; how to arrange for the allies not only to tell us that Estonia's security is protected, but also in reality to contribute to such protection that we have an appropriate contingent and appropriate armaments here, and our allies would not sell us war equipment at terrible prices but provide us as friends, give us this technique, lease it, etc. We have completely different problems right now. Whether or not we have a ratified border agreement with Russia is absolutely irrelevant. What matters, though, is that all of these should be noted! In fact, whoever is running this border treaty thing through the eye of a needle is doing Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin a great service, because he gets one problem off his neck, but we get nothing. We are not actually getting anything, because no one or nothing is preventing us from building the control line even now, as we want it to be protective, guardable, etc. Nobody stopped it ten years ago and didn't stop it twenty years ago. We haven't done that. As we've experienced recently, we've allowed the border to grow into a brush, we don't even know where it is, we're gonna have the ward take the boy there, we're gonna take him away, and we're gonna have him sit in a dungeon for a long time until we don't need him anymore for the Russians, and they're gonna throw him back to us like a bottle we drank out across the border. It is remembered that the minister who was here only recently swore, almost hand on the Bible, that the ship's guards would be brought home. Now they're gonna be in jail for another five years until they come home. Our foreign policy is not adequate. Our foreign policy is based on some kind of delusion and listens to what selfishly we are encouraged to do to our so-called friends. They have their own goals and we have our own goals. Sometimes they overlap and sometimes they don't overlap. Experience over 25 years should be sufficient to distinguish when they overlap and when they do not. From this perspective, we should act. It is pointless to ratify the border agreement now, which would be detrimental to Estonia. The fact is that 5.2% of Estonia's territory is occupied. Whether the Minister uses that word or not, it's his choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U247	Thank you. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U248	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen, We found out today that there's nothing to know. It turned out that the question of whether these areas were occupied had two sides, legal and political. Let's take the legal side first. Legally, these areas are occupied. It doesn't matter if you say it or not, whether you're scared or not. Actually, you're scared. You fear the reaction that comes from NATO coming from the European Union coming from the US embassy. For God's sake, what will be done if it turns out that NATO and the Member State of the European Union are still occupied, that areas in Petserimaa, Setumaa, Jaanilinna have been occupied! God save this scandal! But this attitude is submissive and treasonous, and I am ashamed of it. Today, it is popular to feel embarrassed, and I am embarrassed. Let's take it politically. The second aspect of occupation is always political. Politically, no one has given you a mandate to surrender the land that belonged to the Republic of Estonia in the 1920s and 1930s. No one has ever given you this. You may direct foreign policy, but you will receive a mandate from this hall, not from fiction or illustration written on your papers. That's a fact. When you say that you are pursuing the mandate obtained in 2005 for the ratification of the border agreements, it is a lie. The border agreements did not enter into force because Russia rejected them because of the Preamble, which stipulated that the Tartu Peace Treaty would continue to apply. These agreements did not enter into force and were put on the market. They have come back to this Chamber and we will soon process them at second reading, but they have not yet entered into force. You have not gotten here the existing border agreements on which to base your foreign policy with the Russian Federation. Therefore, you still have to rely on the fact that we do not have existing border agreements, but on a baseline that temporarily determines the area of control between the two countries. That's a fact. You said I could use the word "ocupation." I'm doing it because unlike some others, I'm not afraid to say it. I want it to sound as far as possible that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is timid. When you came to our group to answer questions about the place of ratification of the border agreements, I asked you directly why the work of the Narva reservoir and hydroelectric power plant has not been addressed when concluding the border agreements. Why has it not been included as a single clause in contracts that are in relations between two countries of extremely high weight? The Narva Water Reservoir is known to be a reserve water collection site at the Leningrad Nuclear Power Plant. This power plant is the same type as Chernobyl. If anything blows up in there, Ida-Viru County is powerless. What was your answer? I would like to remind you: 'Russia has proposed that we move the border treaty to one end first and then we will look forward. ' You've been an ambassador to Russia and the United States. There is another person in this hall who has also been an ambassador to Russia. Your stories are like night and day. We should now, in this Chamber, choose which side of the political rhetoric we believe more in Russia, whether such a bona fide, that we will take care of it and then look forward, or whether the reality is that the Russian Federation is currently occupying Ukraine, Crimea, is organising mass military exercises every year across our borders, although Sweden, Finland, although the Republic of Estonia, both air and sea borders are constantly being violated. The question arises, whose interests are actually served by the Estonian Foreign Minister and the Estonian Government. I have a reasonable question as to who the Kremlin agents are, whether those who serve the interests of the Russian Federation, so that the border agreements can be brought to an end quickly, so that there is a legitimate and legal basis for saying that there is no occupation, or those political forces that are trying to prevent it at all costs. The government's behavior is devastating, and for that, each of us will be responsible. A successful year and stand up for Estonia as a nation state! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U249	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U250	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the Foreign Minister's speech today should be written in large and red letters, namely in red letters, in the history of Estonia. I have spoken with many Estonian politicians, ministers and several presidents, but I have never heard of the claim that Estonia's territories would not have been occupied. Such statements have come from Russia, Russian politicians like Vändra to the lumberboards. It is elementary logic that if the state is occupied and the troops of the occupying state leave only part of the occupied territory, the rest will remain occupied. It's really amazing how someone can say it's not like that. It is equally amazing that the concept of 'ocupation' has some additional political dimension that determines whether or not it is an occupation. Perhaps the Crimea will not be occupied in the eyes of our esteemed Foreign Minister, because the political message from Russia is absolutely clear: they have never occupied it; Crimea belongs to them. The Russian message is the same here too: they have never occupied Estonia; it belongs to them; they have never occupied Petserimaa or areas beyond Narva; they belong to them. I have written a book on the border treaty, which, I know, has been read or at least held by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. There has been a chronological presentation of how the Estonian border has developed, what about the occupation of Estonia, what about the border negotiations. If anyone dares to say that we have achieved the best result, we have stood up for the Estonian state, I say to you that this is an absolute and insolent lie, because since 1994 the representatives of the Estonian state have not stood up for the Estonian state, they have not even negotiated the topic so that we can get something back. On the contrary, this whole process, which began with the restoration of the Tartu peace borders, ended in 1994. The only way forward was by surrendering territories, by surrendering them without wanting anything in return. The Penal Code clearly contains sections that say what it means to assist the occupying state and what it means to act against the territorial integrity of the Republic of Estonia without violence. The only meaning it has is treason. If the Minister of Foreign Affairs of our government does not dare to admit in the Chamber of Riigikogu that Estonia is partially occupied today, then the same can be said about the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I have expressed my amazement several times and once again express a very deep amazement as to how such a person can even think that he could ever become President of the Republic of Estonia. The President, who should stand for the state and nation of Estonia, who should stand for the territorial integrity of the state, who should hold in his heart the fire and flame that inspires our people and our country, but who is willing to give up all this and who has absolutely nothing to do with it, neither the war on freedom, the peace of Tartu, the efforts of our ancestors, nor the future of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U251	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U252	However, at the risk of my colleague Peter Ernits coming to help a lady in distress, some things should be repeated. The Conservative People's Party presented an inquiry, offering the government the opportunity to clarify matters and come up with a clear position. It is understandable what the discussions were from which we did so. We had other stories, and there were some sayings in the process. But we offered the government the opportunity to come up with a clear position, but today we heard basically Kremlin's points of view. It is embarrassing to hear people try to put together the logic in a single sentence that, if the rest of Estonia's territory was occupied in 1940-1991, there were no or ceased to be occupied by some magical force in a couple of counties. Another very embarrassing story is when a minister with legal education comes and confuses the concept of occupation and annexation. Well, I don't know if you think we're that stupid, or if it's the State Department today. But what can we expect from the current government in international relations? It's just incomprehensible. I'm going to repeat a few simple things that express our position. Estonia was occupied by the Soviet Union between 1940 and 1991 (in between, of course, German occupation) and this occupation is currently continuing in 5.2% of Estonia's territory. As long as the Estonian parliament, or Riigikogu, has not surrendered these territories, there will be occupation and Russia will have annexed this territory. Russia is the legal successor of the Soviet Union. It's so simple. I don't even know what's stopping you from saying it. Yes, I understand that the current government and, in fact, all governments over the last twenty years have wanted to surrender these territories and do not want to use such terms. But legally, that's the way it is. The occupation will continue until the day when the new international border agreement between Estonia and Russia will enter into force, which will draw a new border line in view of those territories that are not currently in our hands, but which are rightfully ours and, according to the Tartu Peace Treaty, the Estonian Declaration of Independence and also the UN Treaties, Estonia's territory is officially and legally. Until we surrender them, this is our territory and it is occupied and annexed. I do not understand how this cannot be said by a government that should fulfil a constitutional obligation. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U253	Thank you. There's no more calls. Does the Minister have a wish to speak? No, it's not. We're done answering the eighth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U254	Let's go to today's final question. Enquiries submitted by Riigikogu members Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põljaasa, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit and Arno Silla concerning compensation of occupation losses by the Russian Federation to the Republic of Estonia. The inquiry has also been submitted to Foreign Minister Marina Kaljuranna. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U255	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Let's move on to a similar subject. On 7 December last year, we submitted an inquiry to you, the subject of which is compensation for occupation damage to the Republic of Estonia by the Russian Federation. What was the motive? The motive was once again your claim and who else, if not the Russian media. On Sunday, 6 December, the day before the question was submitted, you claimed to the Russian news portal Interfax that the Government of the Republic of Estonia was not going to claim compensation for occupation damage from the Russian Federation. This statement was motivated by a memorandum of cooperation signed by Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu and his Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues and by the joint claims of the three Baltic States. The Minister of Justice based his activities on the position formed by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, which was notified to the Riigikogu on 14 January 2004. According to this, the government decided to continue to analyse compensation for damages caused by the occupying authorities and to prepare claims for damages, and in particular to support possible claims for damages in relation to human harm. In addition, the Government entrusted the Ministry of Justice with the task of preparing a claim for damages with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. No further decisions have been taken by the institutions of the Republic of Estonia on this subject. We have therefore asked four questions, to which we are asking slightly more precise answers than repeating one mantra. First of all, based on what decision of the Government of the Republic did you say on that sixth day of December that the Republic of Estonia was not going to claim compensation for occupation damage from the Russian Federation? Secondly, if the decision of the Government of the Republic has not been formulated, it does not exist, which would accept the waiver of claims for damages, was your position overruled political powers? Thirdly, if it was a question of exceeding the powers that caused serious damage to communication with our partners, Latvia and Lithuania, will you consider taking political responsibility that would be appropriate in a democratic rule of law? Fourthly, how will you assess how effective further cooperation with the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Lithuania will be if the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia takes positions for which he has no mandate and what is contrary to the positions of our partners? Have a nice answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U256	Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljuranna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U257	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questions. Yes, I and the Prime Minister have taken a position on this issue and assessed the claim for damages for the occupation as not being in perspective, confirming that the government does not intend to take real action on this issue. I repeat, Estonia regained independence 25 years ago. During this time we have joined the European Union and NATO, Estonia is a successful country in all respects, and instead of making demands of the past, we should look forward with confidence and ensure that our country, independence and statehood are sustainable and protected. As regards Estonia's relations with Latvia and Lithuania, they have been very good all the time since regaining independence. I am sure it will continue to be the same. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania agree on all matters concerning our relations with Russia, both within the European Union and more broadly. I am absolutely convinced that our cooperation with Latvia and Lithuania will continue in just as close and effective a form as it has been so far. Our foreign policy priorities are similar, our communication is very active, we can discuss all issues honestly and openly. I assure you of this with full conviction, because I communicate with my colleagues every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U258	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U259	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know what the problem is, but we didn't get an answer to any questions right now. We asked what authority you were relying on. The last mandate you have received dates from 14 January 2004. In three days' time, 12 years will come from the last mandate of the Riigikogu on which the government can rely. What date is the protocol that sets out the government's position, represented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister, who should not give solo shows anywhere on Russian portals? I would ask for a more specific answer to this. If you do not have these powers, as has now turned out, will you consider taking political responsibility? That is the next question to which we have not received an answer. How can you assess relations with Latvia and Lithuania if we take a specific direction other than our partners in terms of history and geopolitical situation, and also on the ground of nationality? Please answer questions again and more, from the first to the last!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U260	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I repeat what I said before. The Prime Minister has said out loud, and I have said out loud that the current government considers the filing of claims for damages for the occupation to be unimaginable, and we do not intend to take any real steps in this direction. If ever the government changes its position, the government will. I will answer the question, and I also answered the Interfax question, on the basis of today's situation, as the Prime Minister has said many times clearly, what his government is doing and what his government is not doing. On the basis of the above, I do not intend to resign and take political responsibility, because I see no reason to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U261	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U262	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! That's amazing talk. It's just speechless talk. As a lawyer, you should know that the Prime Minister is not an institution that can say that the decision of the Riigikogu, even if it is 12 years old, does not matter to him and he does not do what the Riigikogu has decided. The government has to do it. If we have the rule of law and the continuity of governments, then the government must do what the Riigikogu has decided. If the government no longer wants to treat this mandate as a commitment, then the government must come to the Riigikogu, raise a question and get a new answer to it. That the Prime Minister said... Well, I was told by Kükametsa Yellow once. It doesn't mean anything. Today is the Prime Minister of Taavi Clothes, and tomorrow maybe he's nobody. Today, you are the Minister of Foreign Affairs...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U263	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U264	...maybe tomorrow you'll be nobody. I still want to know exactly what decision was taken at the meeting of the government that this question will come back to the Riigikogu, you are currently relying on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U265	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. I can really only speak about the time when I have been a minister, and in this function, as I have been Minister of Foreign Affairs today. If I'm nobody, then I'm gonna start talking about the subjects that nobody's talking about, and the Prime Minister's probably gonna do the same. The Prime Minister has clearly stated that it is inconceivable to make claims for damages for the occupation. We should not be dealing with digging in the past, but we must focus on ensuring that the Estonian state is protected, independent and secure. If any government ever changes that position, it will be the decision of that government. I can speak as the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the government currently in office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U266	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U267	Thank you. It seems to me that we have made it perfectly clear that there is no mandate. It was either your personal solo or the Prime Minister's solo, there is no decision of the government, nor is there a decision of the Riigikogu. So let us go to the next aspect. I'm awfully scratched by the expression 'gazing in the past'. My grandfather went through the forests of Siberia in the past and my father-in-law went through the forests of Siberia in the past. I don't think we can quite forget all our past. But do you agree or do you realize that with your soloism, you are taking away from the next governments, who are perhaps more nationalized and still think that we come from somewhere and that our back is not a blank, the opportunity to make claims, as the Riigikogu has requested? Do you realize that you have weakened the playing field of the next governments and damaged the national interests of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U268	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. We can all give examples of personal life that we or our relatives, or our grandfathers, or grandmothers, have suffered as a result of the occupation. That's right. But I'm not going to count all the sufferings my family suffered during the occupation. As far as the next governments are concerned, I have no right, no mandate or authority to speculate on what the next governments are doing. I very much hope that the next governments will treat this issue sensibly and rationally, as it should be today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U269	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U270	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, I understand that the Prime Minister and you share the view that there should be no requirement for compensation for occupation losses. But the Minister of Justice takes a different view. Has the government now understood what position you should be representing in the future, or are there different positions in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U271	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. The Minister of Justice has not contested the position of the Prime Minister and the current government. The Minister of Justice has not come to the government with this question. I therefore conclude that the Minister of Justice agrees with what the Prime Minister has said.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U272	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U273	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You see, I have taught social education at school and always said that the government is doing what the Riigikogu has decided that the government is executive. Has this matter been discussed in the Riigikogu? With what suggestion or idea did you come up with and state the government's position? Where did you get this government's position? Was that the position of two people on behalf of the entire government, and is it entirely competent? I'm confused. Are two people expressing the position of the Estonian Government without knowing the position of the Riigikogu? Or maybe the Riigikogu's position on this important issue is no longer needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U274	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I do not know that this would have been discussed in the Riigikogu, at least not during the time I have been Minister of Foreign Affairs. If the Riigikogu wishes to discuss this, then of course the government is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U275	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U276	Good President and honourable Minister for Foreign Affairs. In 2004, the government considered that it could still, as a matter of fact, talk about or examine this compensation. 11 years later, the situation has changed considerably, meaning that the filing of a claim for damages is considered to be inconclusive. But I'm asking you the other way around. How far-reaching would it actually be, forgetting to normalise relations with your big neighbour in order to ensure a large market for our goods, etc.? How far-reaching is this even in the context of this unopposed claim for damages?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U277	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Certainly, my previous answer does not mean that this question cannot be examined. I understand the Ministry of Justice is planning to investigate further the issue of occupation damage. Perhaps there will also be consultation with colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania; I cannot rule that out. As I said, the government has not discussed this, and the Minister of Justice has, of course, the power to examine it further and to clarify it if he considers it necessary. What have we said? We have said that the Prime Minister has said, and I have said that we consider claims for damages to Russia to be unpredictable. As far as trade relations with Russia are concerned, I do not see that trade relations with Russia could improve before the overall political background has changed when bilateral relations between the European Union and Russia and Estonia and Russia have changed. Today, I see no way of stopping sanctions against Russia, too, if Russia fails to comply with its international obligations, it will not comply with the Minsk agreements. In fact, the key to success is in Russia's pocket. If Russia starts to act in accordance with international law, if Russia is to comply with the Minsk agreements, there will also be an improvement in relations, including the improvement of economic relations between Estonia and Russia, and between the European Union and Russia as a whole. But I also want to say about economic relations that we need to be careful and careful, because no country wants too much to depend on trade with another country. It is always about finding a balance so that all risks are not in one place but are scattered. This is the best for the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U278	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U279	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Did I understand correctly from your presentation that there are no fixed positions in the government documents that you have spoken orally, both the Prime Minister and you, that there is no need to claim damages for the damage to the occupation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U280	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Yeah, it hasn't been discussed in a government hearing. Yeah, it's not fixed in government documents in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U281	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U282	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I understand from your previous speeches that your political credo, concerning relations with Russia, is not to stand up for our country or national interests, to declare standing up for our interests as perverted, to continue to make sacrifices and betrayals. In short, the Minister of Foreign Affairs believes that Estonia's foreign policy towards Russia must be submissive, cowardly and cynical. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U283	Member of the Riigikogu, I would also like to thank you for this question. I certainly don't agree with you. I could be accused of submissiveness or of coming to Russia if I were now before you with a proposal to conclude a visa waiver agreement or a trade agreement with Russia that would give Russia more favourable conditions or whatever. What I support is Estonia's foreign policy, which is based on the continuity of the Republic of Estonia, the interests of the Republic of Estonia. This is the only way to succeed in foreign policy. Estonia's relations with Russia are the same as those between the European Union and Russia. I have just spoken about our attitude towards the occupation of Crimea and the conflict between Ukraine and Russia in Eastern Ukraine. Our attitude doesn't change. We have supported the sanctioning regime and we will support the extension of sanctions as long as Russia does not comply with its international obligations. However, as regards pragmatic individual issues, which are not linked to the occupation of Crimea, the military conflict between Ukraine and Russia, and the assessment of all of this, such as the border agreements, I support ratification of the border agreements, yes, I support the abolition of the border because I think it will benefit the independence of the Republic of Estonia, the security of the Republic of Estonia, if the border is marked off and is better guarded. It's in all our interests, it's in the interests of our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U284	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U285	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Honourable few members of the Riigikogu who have endured this marathon! I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned the conclusion of a visa waiver agreement with Russia. We recall that not too long ago, about one and a half or two years ago, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs was still Urmas Paet, who has now left for Europe, he vigorously defended the conclusion of the visa waiver agreement with Russia. Now we are just being insane and wanting a visa-free regime with Georgia and Ukraine, forgetting that there are over 50 million people who will then be able to enter our territory virtually uncontrollable and put into question the long-term perspective of our nation state. But since our allies in Europe think it has to be done, we will, of course, sing this song along. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned the Minsk Treaties. Russia's activities in South Ossetia, Abkhazia, Crimea and Eastern Ukraine are a terrible pain to us, and we are fighting with nails and teeth for Russia to free these areas from occupation, but we do not use the word 'ocupation' in Setumaa. This is where our principle ends. We have nothing here. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, For years, I read international negotiation courses at the university. I've been working through a mountain of books, and I've had some personal experience, including a lot of business negotiations since I left the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I want to give you a piece of advice. Come to me, I will also give you this negotiating course, because you do not understand one very simple thing: calling 'immediate' means giving up a bonus, that is to say giving up a trading space. If you say, 'No, no, we're not asking for anything,' then the other side is about to ask you a new and more intense demand, but you have nothing to offer, because you've already given it all away. We have given away territory, we have said in advance that we need no compensation, we forget about the injustice in history. We need nothing, we are looking at a bright future lined with EU directives. Let's think about it. Let's think about it. This isn't the real world. In the real world, they demand, they bang, they trade, they argue. Estonian diplomacy could also learn to trade, argue and not just give in. Put together a group at the State Department, come to me for a negotiating class! I'd like to teach you a little bit. What is happening now in Estonian foreign policy is embarrassing. To tell you the Prime Minister has decided something! The Prime Minister is not the man who decides for us, for 101 members of the Riigikogu. If you have a question about what the country of which we have been elected thinks of, one question or another, please come to the Riigikogu for a debate on a crucial national issue, or put this matter on paper as a bill, ask for a mandate, but do not come to us to blow into our teeth, how the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have decided that this or the second or third thing is necessary or not necessary. This is not the rule of law and it is contrary to our constitution. Worst of all, if you do not understand that you are doing favors to Russia, for which you are defending us just as you are, then you have, in some way, missed the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U286	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U287	Good chairman of the sitting! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! So let's hit the final table for today's sitting. This trial made the blood boil, and I'm afraid there's gonna be an early heart attack if you listen to this thing every day. I am amazed that the Foreign Minister does not know the mandate given to him either ten years, twenty years or six months ago. He merely claims that, during his term of office, in the last six months, his claim for occupation has not been dealt with. Indeed, it has not been dealt with because the Riigikogu is a legislative power and you are part of the executive power, not part of the legislative power. You are not the one who is designing the positions of the government alone, and this is not Mr. Clothes, it is not you, but the position is formed by the Government of the Republic jointly at the sitting where it is all recorded. You don't have that paper, you do solo. This is a breach of political powers. Really sad. Either you're lying that you're not gonna do it, or you don't realize you're not gonna do it. Either way, it's very sad. This is very damaging to the Estonian state both in terms of image design and in terms of shaping the future, because when the government that cares about the Estonian nation and the Estonian state finally takes power in Estonia, it has much more trouble to deal with. But he'll be fine. When we talk about powers, I cannot imagine that, for example, none of us, 101, would go to the European Council to represent the positions of the Estonian Government. We don't have that authority. We do not have a mandate to buy a one-way ticket to Brussels, go to the European Council and tell Merkel that, you know, our quota is zero. There's no mandate, can't go. But you are going to Interfax, the Russian portal, to say that Estonia has no requirements. I don't know where you're from, I don't know who you're getting the money from. Who do you serve with solo? Mr. Clothes comes and enjoys glory, and every other expression he has is 'the Prime Minister knows' or 'I am the head of the government', but you should be a much more excited, experienced and respectable person than the Prime Minister. But you say you're both taking decisions alone. I can't imagine what government we have and how long this government will last. The less time, the better, of course. But what about the future? Please come to the Riigikogu with this question. You can take this up in the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu would either renew the mandate, renew that position, because in three days' time, the last decision adopted by the Riigikogu on 14 January 2004 will become 12 years old. No further mandate has been given by the Riigikogu to you or the government. It's just a suggestion you should follow to make it right. Have a nice year of work and good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U288	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Foreign Minister like a word? No, I don't. We're done answering today's last question. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-11_U289	Now we have the opportunity to speak in a free microphone after the hammer hit. There are no requests to speak. Today's trial is over. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 19.52 p.m.
