ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U1	Dear President of the Republic of Estonia, Honourable Riigikogu! Dear members of the outgoing government and members of the new government!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U2	Due to the suspension of the powers of Riigikogu members Andres Anvelt, Mikhail Korb, Sven Mikser, Urve Palo, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Mailis Reps and Kadri Simson, and their appointment as members of the Government of the Republic, the following alternate members will be members of the Riigikogu: Vladimir Archipov, Helmut Hallemaa, Liisa Oviir, Evi Paasmäe, Barbi-Jenny Pilvre-Storgård, Tiit Terik, Hardi Volmer and Toomas Väinaste. One of them has already taken the oath of office of a member of the Riigikogu; he will no longer have to do so today. But in order for everything to be in accordance with the Constitution, everyone else has to take their oath. So let's hear the oath of office of new members of the Riigikogu. First of all, I'd like to ask for a chair at Helmut Hallemaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U3	Honourable President of the Republic! Good Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U4	Eev Paasmäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U5	Honourable President of the Republic! Good Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U6	Barbi-Jenny Pilvre-Storgård, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U7	Mr President, Good Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U8	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U9	Honourable President of the Republic! Good Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U10	Thomas Väinaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U11	Honourable President of the Republic! Good Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U12	Now that there are 101 members in the Riigikogu again, I will ask you whether anyone has a wish to submit inquiries or drafts. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U13	Mr President, Dear Speaker! A good outgoing and coming government! On behalf of the representatives of the three opposition parties, I will hand over a draft decision to set up a committee of problems in the Riigikogu to examine the problems related to population decline. The biggest problem in Estonia today is the declining birth rate and population. This has also been understood by our new, incoming government, which has also emphasised this. We're here to help. We believe that the rapid decline in the population puts all our achievements at risk and in doubt in the long term. The fall in ambition threatens the sustainability of the nation, economic development and national security. However, since today's population model is talking about wholesale dependence, i.e. the importance of the economic environment, home, media work, domestic and foreign security totals 17 or 18, it is necessary to examine this issue comprehensively and to work together between political parties. That is why we propose to set up a committee of problems where all the political groups of the Riigikogu are represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U14	I have adopted one draft, and we will process it in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 94 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 7.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U15	Honourable Riigikogu! By decision No 24 of 22 November, the President of the Republic appointed the Government of the Republic formed by Jüri Ratas. According to § 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic takes office by taking an oath before the Riigikogu. Mr Jüri Ratas, Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic taking office, I would like to ask you to take your oath to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U16	Mr President of the Republic of Estonia! Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Taavi in Clothes and the outgoing government! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[The Prime Minister will sign the oath text. Let's hear it.]] I ask for the oath of office of ministers of my government: Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology Urve Palo, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice Margus Tsahkna, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar, Minister of Rural Affairs Martin Repinski, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson, Minister of Finance Sven Sester, Minister of Public Administration Mikhail Korb, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt, Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva, father of two new children, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski and Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser. [[Ministers shall sign the text of the oath. Let's hear it.]] Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu, 15 members of the government have taken an oath.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U17	Thank you, George Ratas! Honourable Riigikogu, allow me to read the President of the Republic's decision: 'Decision No 25 of the President of the Republic, Toompeal, 23 November 2016. Release of the Government of the Republic. I release the Government of the Republic, led by Taavi Rõivas, from office on 9 April 2015 in connection with the taking up of office of a new government on 23 November 2016. Basis: § 78 (10) and § 92 (2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. ' Signature: Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia. On behalf of the Riigikogu, I congratulate the incoming government and thank the outgoing government! Dear President of the Republic, You have the opportunity to congratulate the new government first. Then I would like to congratulate all of us, so I will take the chairman's break for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U18	Ladies and gentlemen, Let us proceed to the sitting and go to the agenda items on Wednesday. The agenda must first be specified. Attention, colleagues. Mart Helme, Vice-President of the Committee on National Defence, will present the presentation of the commission's presentation at the debate at first reading on today's 13th agenda item, draft 330. Johannes Kert, Member of the Committee on National Defence, will present the presentation of the commission at the discussions on agenda items 15 and 16, drafts 335 and 338 at first reading. In today's debate on agenda items 13 to 22, i.e. drafts 330, 333, 335, 338, 332, 334, 331, 336, 337 and 339, the initiators' presentation will be presented by Minister of Defence Margus Tsahkna.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U19	Ladies and gentlemen, Today's first item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. [[???Hüüe saalist: 'On!'???]] I'm sorry! Heljo Pikhof, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The share of older people in the world, as well as in Estonia, will increase rapidly over the next decades. This demographic change is a first in human history and is one of the most important features of human progress. Increasing numbers of people live as long as life expectancy is biologically possible and do not die of disease. At the same time, a large part of the old-age pensioners living alone live in greater poverty and are also at greater risk of poverty. It is in recent years that the proportion of such people has increased most rapidly. In most cases, the monthly income of an individual old-age pension business ranges from 320 to 400 euros. It has to be enough for both housing and essential goods, food and medicines, for everything else. Roll every penny between your fingers as carefully as you can, but if there's any unexpected thing that requires money to be done, it often doesn't. For many years, the Social Democrats have stood for poverty reduction and better well-being for children and families with children. As a result of recent measures, their situation has improved somewhat, so that individual pensioners are now living much more narrowly than they are. While the net income of families with children was still more than 450 euros per month according to official data, the monthly net income of the individual aged 65 and over was less than 400 euros. The Socialists are pleased that today the draft law will become a force, which in October 2017 gives the hope that EUR 115 will be paid once a year to pensioners living alone who have a net pension of less than EUR 470 from April to September of the current financial year. The pensioner does not have to apply for the benefit, which is determined by the Social Insurance Board. It is estimated that 86000 people are affected by a pensioner living alone. Another important nuance to this draft: if a pensioner is working, his or her salary and not his or her social benefits will not be taken into account when setting the new allowance. We are shaping society for every age. The needs of the elderly must be seen in a complex way. It is necessary to create opportunities for pensioners who are still able and willing to work, even part-time. All the more so as the older our people get, the fewer those who work will be. In addition, working income at retirement age is quite low, in more than half of the cases it is less than EUR 301 per month. As the years go on, medical care and rehabilitation are becoming more and more important. The dental benefit that will be in force next year is a step that will make this situation easier for Estonian residents. It is no coincidence that today we are discussing a draft which says that the state will support the dental care of pensioners from the coming year to the current EUR 19 instead of EUR 85. The plan also includes a pension reform that would provide greater security for people at retirement age. In fact, many things go back to attitudes. In the coming years, the well-being of every person in Estonia will be improving step by step. Above all, the well-being and livelihood of the low-paid and retired are improving. What is most important, however, must be given in such a way that it can be accepted sincerely and with gratitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U21	Thank you. The spirit of Igor Gräzin wants to speak on behalf of the Reform Party, but we only have natural persons. I understand there are no more requests. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 300. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the State Pension Insurance Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 86 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U22	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the third reading of the draft law 256 amending the Working Conditions Act and other laws on posted workers to Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote of 256. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on draft law 256 amending the Working Conditions Act and other laws on posted workers to Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 1 against and 4 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U23	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the second reading of the draft Riigikogu decision 'Accepting the State's 2015 Annual Summary Report' presented by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, I would like the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Remo Holsmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance has been working and working very hard on this draft for a very long time. The 2015 summary report was submitted by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu on 26 September and the first reading of the draft took place on 15 November. The Committee on Finance, as I said, dealt with the draft in detail at two meetings: 14 and 21 November. No proposals were received from the political groups or members of the Riigikogu by the deadline of 18 November. The Commission itself made one technical amendment to the draft regulation concerning the time of entry into force of the decision. The text of the draft also contains linguistic and technical specifications. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading and put the draft to a final vote. I would ask the large Chamber to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U25	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. There is one amendment to the draft and we will examine it together. This proposal has been presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 298. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Accepting the State's summary report for the financial year 2015', 298. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U26	Today's fourth item is the second reading of draft law 295 amending university law and related amendments to other laws. Aadu Musta, vice-chairman of the Cultural Commission of the Speaker's Board, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of this bill, which we discussed a month ago, has arrived on 18 October. None of the amendments came within the deadline. However, the Commission itself read this material at even three meetings, tried to critically review the text and eliminate any possible inconsistencies. I would point out that this is not a political law. All the members of the political groups dealt with this matter in a deep consensus. It is a regulation that makes it possible to better fund university work. No political priorities have been taken into account, but only that there were errors in the current procedure that no one was satisfied with, of course, and they have been corrected. The suggestions for improvement are such that perhaps colleagues agree that in some places we were overly ambitious. If someone said that it was possible to read from the section on the payment of scholarships that a scholarship would be paid to the professor, then the text was immediately supplemented and written as a'student scholarship'. Whether it was needed or not, it's there now. The exact same thing was that the law would enter into force from the beginning of the new year and therefore a small transfer point had to be found to deal with the first few months of the new year. All these improvements have been described very normally. The Commission, as has already been said, supported them in a consensual way and considered it very necessary, so I will not comment on every point separately unless ladies and gentlemen demand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U28	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. There are 14 amendments to the draft; we will review them. The first amendment is from the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is from the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment is from the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 10th amendment is tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 12th amendment is tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 14 has also been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 295. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U29	We will proceed with the processing of the items on today's agenda. The fifth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Construction Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the State Fees Act. I would like to present Jaanus Marrand, member of the Economic Commission for the Speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the text of the second reading of the draft law amending the Construction Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act and the State Fees Act. A few words from the bill. The draft law amending the Building Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act and the State Fees Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 30 May 2016. The first reading of the draft was held in Riigikogu plenary on 19 October 2016 and the first reading was closed. The main objective of the draft 250 is to transpose Directive 2014/61 of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed electronic communications networks. So much for the substance of the bill. The meeting of the Economic Commission took place on 14 November before sending the draft to second reading. Tõnu Nirk, Head of Communication Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Liisi Moks, Chief Specialist, who presented the content of the amendments, were invited to the meeting of the committee. A total of seven amendments to the draft have been tabled, most of which are of a descriptive and editorial nature. A few proposals are more substantive. The third and fourth proposals concern the role of local authorities, so that local authorities can also intervene more actively in the process, the data of network owners are available, and the local authorities could also "start cooperation." In addition, one proposal amended the deadline for the implementation of the draft. Between two readings, a letter was received on the draft. This was a joint access to the building register for a module of network facilities, which should include all these network data. This letter was prepared by the main network owners: Telia Eesti AS, Elering AS, Elektrilevi OÜ, Estonian Association of Water Enterprises, Esmar Gaas OÜ, Esmar Vesi OÜ and Chairman of the Management Board of Gaasivõrgud AS Roman Bogdanovich have also signed it. These main network operators believe that the burden on them is too high and takes too much energy from them. At the same time, there is a response from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which considers that the issue of creating a module for network facilities is not directly related to the implementation of the Directive, which is not reflected in the draft and can be resolved in the ongoing cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. That concludes the Commission meeting. The following decisions were taken by consensus at the Commission meeting: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 23 November, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to the third reading by 7 December and to put it to the final vote. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U31	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. There are seven amendments to the draft and we will examine them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Erki Savisaar, Aadu Must, Tanel Talve, Einar Vallbaum, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsepp, Kristjan Kõljalg, Henn Põljaas and Andres Metsoja, the position of the leading committee is taken into account in substance. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 250. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U32	We are going to the sixth item on today's agenda. The second reading of the draft Act 251 on the Amendment of Aliens Act and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Mart Nuti, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 15 November. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior and the advisers of the same department Killu Christine Vantsi, Doris Uude and Harry Kattai were invited to the debate on the draft. During the debate, our Commission advisor, Karin Tuulik, presented the progress made so far on the draft. He noted that the Commission discussed the draft for the first time at its meeting on 20 September, where representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the NGO FinanceEstonia had taken part in the opinion on the draft. Both the Chamber of Commerce and FinanceEstonia proposed to exclude large investors from the immigration limit. In addition, FinanceEstonia proposed to include financial investments in equity. The Commission also asked the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs for an opinion. The Committee on Economic Affairs supported the Chamber of Commerce's proposal and the Committee on Social Affairs also supported it. Both technical and substantive proposals were submitted by the Ministry of the Interior for the meeting of the Commission. The members of the Riigikogu did not submit any proposals for a bill. On the basis of government proposals, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs finalised 17 amendments. I stress that they are basically technical in nature. All the proposals were initiated by the members of the Commission in a consensual manner, so that the issues raised in relation to these proposals were not raised. Consequently, procedural decisions were adopted after the Commission's proposals were submitted. Firstly, a consensus was proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda by today, 23 November. The second proposal was to conclude the second reading, which was also given in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U34	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. 17 amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 10th amendment is tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 13th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 15 is tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The last amendment, the 17th amendment, is also from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 251. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U35	Let's keep going. Today's seventh item is the second reading of the draft law 252 on the amendment of the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Mart Nuti, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U36	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Commission on the same day as the previous one, i.e. 15 November. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior and the advisers of the same department Killu Christine Vantsi, Doris Uude and Harry Kattai were also invited to the discussion of this draft. Karin Tuulik, the Commission's advisor, introduced the procedure for this draft. He explained that the draft law amending the Aliens Act and related amendments to other laws had been discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 20 September. Representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Gardening Association took part in this discussion. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry proposed that, with a temporary residence permit and working in Estonia for a short period, the requirement to pay the average salary in Estonia laid down in the draft could be replaced by the requirement to pay the average salary in the employer's main business area. The Gardening Association made alternative proposals, one of which envisaged linking the wages of seasonal workers in the gardening sector to the minimum gross wage, and the other provided that the wage criterion for seasonal workers should not apply. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also asked the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs for an opinion on the draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs supported the Chamber of Commerce's proposal. The Social Affairs Committee felt the same way. In addition, the Committee on Rural Affairs issued an opinion which considered that the salary of seasonal workers should be based on the average salary of the main activity. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs asked the Government to formulate a position on the draft proposals. The Government of the Republic discussed these proposals on 3 November and considered that the salary criterion could be subject to the amendments laid down in the draft, according to which the salary requirement for short-term work and work with a residence permit is the average gross annual fee for Estonia. Seasonal workers could, however, be provided with such an exception that this criterion does not apply to them when the Government of the Republic establishes a list of seasonally dependent activities. On 14 November, NGO FinanceEstonia sent us an opinion on this draft, asking for support for the Government's proposals. The members of the Riigikogu did not submit any proposals for the draft. The Commission finalised seven proposals on the basis of the Government's views and on the basis of the opinions of the organisations that participated in the Commission's consultation. All these proposals were also tabled in a consensual manner. The Commission also adopted procedural decisions. It was first decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda by today, 23 November and to propose that the second reading be closed. Both decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U37	Thank you, dear waitress. You have a question. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I understood from your review that the debate on sector-specific wages was the most common in the Commission's session. How did this decision finally come about, how fierce and heated you had these disputes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U39	There were no quarrels. As I said, the decisions were consensual. This option, which has now been proposed, was in principle accepted. Yes, there were different views in previous phases, but the Commission considered that this was the optimal way in the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U40	Thank you. However, there are still questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U41	Honorable manager! Respectable waitress! Am I right to understand that the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry now accepts the result that the Commission has achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U42	Thank you. I don't know if he'll accept it or not. Their proposal was different, but the Commission has the final say.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U43	Thank you. No further questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. There are seven amendments to the draft and we will examine them. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment is also from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 252. The second reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U44	Let's keep going. The eighth item is the second reading of Bill 301 of the Health Insurance Act and Amendment to the Social Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Hunt!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U45	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft took place on 19 October. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 2 November. The Estonian Centre Party Group tabled one amendment to the draft, but withdrew it on 8 November. The Committee on Social Affairs asked the stakeholders involved to submit their opinions by 31 October. The Estonian Association of Dentists, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Association of Pharmacists and the Estonian Drug Wholesaler Association sent their opinion on the draft. The Social Affairs Committee finalised amendments to the draft on the basis of proposals made by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Association of Pharmacies and the Estonian Drug Wholesaler Association. I would very much like to congratulate the members of the Social Affairs Committee and the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Aivar Kokka, all of whom were prepared to deal with this draft at length. Five meetings of the Commission took place. I will now give an overview of these sittings. On Monday, 7 November, a meeting of the Commission, attended by Dagmar Rüütel, Head of the Pharmaceutical Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Ülle Jordan, Head of the Health System Development Department, Kuldar Kuremaa, Member of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, Külli Friedemann, Head of the Development Department of the Special Medical Care Package of the same department, Tiina Sats, Head of the Legal Department, Kristina-Valeria Tobias and Head of the General Lawyer Kadri Kurvits, member of the Board of the Association of Estonian Pharmacists Tanel Teras and member of the Association of Estonian Pharmacists, Tiina Kadak, representative of the Ben Pharmacists, CEO of the Association of Estonian Pharmacists Teet Torgo, President of the Association of Estonian Dentists Marek Vink, and member of the council of the Council of Kattri Arge. All the interest groups and all the speakers received the floor; they explained the reasons for their proposals. The Commission decided that there was a need to continue the debate because, in the opinion of a very large number of those present, the subject was multifaceted and the Commission wanted to continue the debate in depth. On Tuesday, 8 November, a new Commission meeting was held at which the same draft was discussed. Then Dagmar Rüütel, Head of the Medicine Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Ülle Jordan, Head Specialist of the Health System Development Department took part in the discussion. Stakeholders' proposals were discussed again, many of the questions raised by the Commission were answered and procedural decisions were taken. These were the following: to propose that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 14 p.m. on 16 November (this was a consensual decision), to propose that the second reading be closed (also a consensual decision) and to send it to third reading when the second one is closed by 14 p.m. on 23 November (also a consensual decision). The next Social Affairs Committee meeting took place on 14 November. Ülle Jordan, Head Specialist of the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, attended the committee meeting. At this meeting it was decided that it was proposed to remove this draft from the agenda of the 8th working week of the 4th session of the Riigikogu and to re-subscribe it to the agenda by 23 November, i.e. today. The next meeting was held on 15 November. Ülle Jordan, Head of the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kuldar Kuremaa, Member of the Management Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, Külli Friedemann, Head of the Department for Development of the First Level Package of Health Insurance Benefits, Kadri Kurvits, Head of the Legal Department, Marek Vink, members of the Board Katrin Metstak and Eva Vakra, and member of the Council of Kattri Arge. The committee heard the opinions and views of the President of the Estonian Dental Association as well as the responses of the Health Insurance Fund. The Ministry of Social Affairs did not accept the proposal for financial compensation proposed by the Estonian Dental Association. The Commission proposed that the parties, the Estonian Dental Association and the Health Insurance Fund, meet again on 17 November and find a compromise on the price list for dental care, which had also been one of the problems. On Monday, 21 November, a meeting of the Social Affairs Committee was held again to discuss the same draft. The Ministry of Social Affairs represented Ülle Jordan, Head Specialist of the Health System Development Department, and Kuldar Kuremaa, Member of the Management Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. It was decided, by consensus, to approve the procedural documents for the second reading of the draft. I would also like to make it clear that the title of this draft was also changed on the basis of a proposal from the Association of Estonian Pharmacists and the Association of Estonian Pharmacists. This proposal provided for the deletion from the draft of paragraphs 1 20 to 24 and § 2. It was decided by consensus that this proposal deserves support and that the parties and the Ministry of Social Affairs must cooperate and find a solution. As a result, this bill became a draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Tax Act. All the proposals that were put to the vote were supported by consensus. It's scheduled on Tuesday, November 8th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U46	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your beautiful and thorough review. My question concerns the Dentist Association and the Health Insurance Fund. You said very nicely that you gave these two time to bring their positions closer together. Were these views then converged, and how does the Commission feel about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U48	I would say that the Health Insurance Fund and the Association of dentists did indeed meet, but their views did not approach much. In principle, however, it was found that the price list issue needed negotiation and clarification. The Health Insurance Board meeting will be held on the 9th. Consequently, the minutes of our committee meeting have not confirmed when the third reading will take place. It is also very important that the Social Affairs Committee already agreed at the beginning of its term that the drafts will go to third reading when they have a regulation that is like a ministry document. We have listened to the proposals made by the Dentist Association. They are fundamentally different from the logic of the draft. Perhaps so far, the compensation that people receive has been financial, except for children. Children's dental care benefits are provided in kind and can be obtained by dental care providers who have signed a contract with the sickness insurance fund. Both the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs are of the opinion that the same path should be followed in the case of adult dental care, as well as in the case of prosthetic and elderly dental care benefits. The amounts we are talking about are as follows: 30 euros for adults and 85 euros for the elderly; there will also be replacements, 255 euros for three years. They should become in kind and can then be obtained by dentists who have signed a contract with the health insurance fund. The Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs also claimed that it would become clear if it was tried to work in one year. I will be honest with you that the representative of the Estonian Association of Dentists considered that there may not be very many contract recipients, which the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs claimed was that there has never been a shortage of applicants. We also asked how many were contracted under the current system. There are over 200 and there are over 500 service providers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U49	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Helmen Hunter! I'm opening negotiations. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of bill 301 is noble: to provide dental care benefits for people of working age up to 50% of medical bills with a total cost of up to EUR 60. This is, in principle, a great new initiative. It is important that it is triggered as effectively and as smoothly as possible. The compensation is established according to the draft in the Government of the Republic of Estonia regulation 'List of health services of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund' in kind. However, there are some problems. The first problem is that the pricing mechanism of the health insurance fund is not flexible and is not based on real costs and therefore no agreement has been reached with the Estonian Dental Association. The Health Insurance Fund also acknowledges that it has not had enough input, especially from small service providers. Large service providers can also provide this service by subsidising it at the expense of other medical services. This leads to the risk that there are few people signing contracts with the health insurance fund or that the contract is concluded simply because of the fear of losing the customer base. The result can also be a poor service or even the bankruptcy of smaller service providers. According to the Dentist Association survey, less than 7% of the members of the association are prepared to treat adults at the marginal rates specified in the list of services provided by the Health Insurance Fund, i.e. 93% are not prepared to enter into a contract until the Health Insurance Fund's price list starts to correspond to real costs. Thus, compensation from the patient's perspective may be meaningless, since the service can only be provided in certain places that may not be located at all near the person's place of residence. The problem is also that only the project has been completed so far, and the Health Insurance Board will not discuss the regulation until December, and sometime thereafter the regulation will reach the Government of the Republic for approval. Another problem is that a well-functioning financial dental prosthetic benefit is planned to be in kind as of 2018. But the Health Insurance Fund hasn't even started setting up any pricing mechanisms so far. There is a year, but there is a risk of conflict similar to that of adult dental care. The Health Insurance Fund raises the argument that children's current dental benefits in kind work well. Dentists argue that the cost of the poor cost of dental care for children is reduced by the cost of other services, in particular adult dental care. If this service has to be provided with a minus, then it is no longer possible to cope because the cost inputs of the health insurance fund are not cost-based. The current dental benefit package for working age has been put together according to the limits of the budget. Dentists have maintained that the best solution would still be a financial compensation in the form of dental prosthetic benefits, which would move with the patient. As I have already pointed out, dental practitioners and the health insurance fund have also not been able to agree on the price limits to be reimbursed. Discussions on the draft law in the Committee on Social Affairs have been lengthy. The second reading was postponed for a week to give the dentists and the health insurance fund additional time to negotiate. Unfortunately, they have not yet achieved results. In the opinion of the Reform Party, the most important thing is to ensure the free movement of patients and the choice of service provider. We therefore hope that appropriate solutions will be found for the parties at the latest for the third reading. If the service doesn't start working properly, then it's not excluded...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U51	Would you like some extra time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U52	That's enough. If the service does not work properly, it is not excluded that the law will have to be amended in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U53	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U54	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just saying for the sake of the verbatim. The draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic, i.e. the Social Democrats, the IRL and the Reform Party on 28 September 2016. On 29 September 2016, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu appointed the Social Affairs Committee. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 19 October. The deadline for tabling amendments was set at 2 November. The Estonian Central Party Group tabled an amendment to the draft, which, indeed, was withdrawn on 8 November. Neither the members of the Riigikogu, any political party or anyone else had any amendments, except the interest groups from whom we asked for opinions. These were the Estonian Dental Association, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Pharmacies Association and the Estonian Drug Wholesaler Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U55	There's no more calls. Dear Riigikogu, six amendments have been tabled to Bill 301. These are all from the commission, but let's go through them anyway. The first is accounted for, the second is accounted for, the third is accounted for, the fourth is accounted for, the fifth is accounted for and the sixth is accounted for. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 301. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U56	The second reading of Bill 317 of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. Commission waitress from Vilja Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U57	Mr. Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would remind you that the first reading of Act No 317 amending the Social Welfare Act and related amendments to other laws was at the Riigikogu Hall on 9 November. Since it has not been too long and the draft itself is not very long, I will not recall its content. I will simply report the positions that came into question in the Commission when we prepared the draft for a second reading. This draft we discussed and prepared for the second reading three days in advance. This was the first time on 14 November. Above all, at this committee meeting, we committed ourselves to listening to the proposals of the organisations to whom we had sent this draft and asked questions. These were the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Estonian Association of SOS Children's Village. What were the main objections or problems of these stakeholders? SOS Children's Village CEO Margus Oro explained to us that SOS Children's Village is particularly concerned about matters related to the family parent's contract. The budget of the replacement home's bounty does not allow family parents to be recruited on sufficiently favourable terms on the basis of a new family parent's contract, in particular because of a lack of resources, but also because it becomes costly to reimburse the replacement home for sick leave, to send workers on secondment and training, and to compensate for the transport of the family parent. Similarly, family parents who work under a contract of command do not benefit from health insurance from the time they start working, but much later. In addition, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the circa for children in a replacement home will increase by 2.3 million euros next year and that the normal child's bounty will increase from 829 euros to 1150 euros, which means that the increase will be 40%, and that the child's bounty will increase from 1283 euros to 1450 euros for children with severe or severe disabilities up to a maximum of two years, so the increase will be 13%. The draft does not interfere with the details of the regulation of the contract between the employer, or the principal, and the employee, i.e. the principal, as workers also have different agreements and benefits on the basis of an employment contract. Similarly, it is not mandatory to sign a law covenant with a family parent, but it is only one option. Then we heard the representative of the Association of Rural Governments and the Association of Cities, which was Hille Ilves this time. He drew attention to the fact that, if the local authorities were to receive a service financed by the State through the rural governments so far and converted into a social service for the local government, this would lead to additional costs for local authorities, the size of which is not described in the draft. Giving local authorities a new task means that they will have an obligation and will have to assess the need for child care for children with severe and deep disabilities for each child individually. Local authorities, however, do not have trained specialists or funds to hire them. In addition, dissatisfaction was expressed about the lack of sustainability of the financing of social benefits financed from the state budget. Signe Riisalo, representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, explained that local authorities have already organised child care for children with severe and deep disabilities since 2007. In order to provide the service, local authorities have concluded an administrative contract and the funds were allocated to local authorities through rural governments. As a result, the explanatory memorandum to the draft has not dealt very thoroughly with the increase in administration costs, as it is assumed that local authorities will continue to provide the same service. It is pointed out that social assistance must be given as close to the person as possible and that assistance must be given first and foremost on the basis of the needs of the person. It is the local government that is best able to assess the real needs of its inhabitants. In addition, it has been taken into account that, at the end of the ESF period, additional resources will have to be requested from the state budget and will be ready to do so. The Commission meeting on 14 November thus ended. The next time, we discussed the same issue at the Social Affairs Committee meeting the next day, on 15 November. By that time, both the Association of Rural Municipalities and the Cities Association had sent further explanations. This time, they focused first and foremost on the fact that the state would hand over the obligation to provide a new service to the local government, but at the same time they would not give more money. In addition, Signe Riisalo, representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, once again explained that the State will actually grant an additional EUR 1 million to local authorities next year to organise this service. In the future, once the administrative reform has been implemented, the administrative contract will transfer the funds directly to the local government, depending on the number of children in the local government. However, since the questions remained in the air, we also decided to contact the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to ask them for an explanation, since the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Governments claimed that, in addition to the lack of money, such a transfer of service would also be contrary to the Constitution. To find out, we decided to contact the Legal and Analytical Department. Although no amendments were tabled by the members of the Riigikogu by 11 November, when it was the deadline for submitting amendments, the Commission still needed to make three amendments, all of which are technical in nature. In order for the law to be correct in technical terms, we have tabled these amendments and adopted them in a consensual manner. We now come to the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 21 November. By this time we had the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which confirmed, as we assumed, that there was really no breach of the Constitution. However, in the meantime, the Commission had come to the conclusion that another amendment was still necessary for the draft law. It was about the appeal procedure. According to the initial draft law, the appeal procedure should have gone into the framework of a new administrative contract under the general part of the social code, but since we found that these things had not yet come into force and we do not know when all of this would come into force, we decided that there was no need to change the current situation in this matter, i.e. the right of appeal remains for both the local government and the county government. Of course, the general part of the Social Code applies to this too. That is why we took out of the draft a point that would have cancelled the possibility that the appeal procedure could also have been submitted through local government and county government. This amendment was supported by all the members of the Commission present. We approved the second reading procedural documents and decided that the second reading of the draft could be on the agenda today. We also proposed that the second reading should be completed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U58	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Vilja Toomas! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Four amendments have been tabled to Bill 317, all from the lead committee. We're going through them: the first, the second, the third and the fourth. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. Second reading of Bill 317 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U59	The second reading of the Act amending the Rescue Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Police and Border Guard Act 309 begins. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Uno Kaskpeit, Vice-President of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U60	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 October. The first reading of the draft act took place on 8 November. The deadline for tabling amendments was 11 November. No amendments were tabled. On 15 November this issue was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Ministry of the Interior had provided information that it had prepared the establishment and maintenance of a database for the processing of emergency reports as well as the establishment and maintenance of a rescue information system and that these regulations would be approved by the Minister of the Interior. Four decisions were adopted by the Commission, all by consensus. Firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 23 November, i.e. today, second, to propose the termination of the second reading, thirdly, if the second reading is completed, to send it to the third reading by 7 December, fourthly, to put it to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U61	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Uno Kaskpeit! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. No amendments were tabled to draft 309 and the second reading has been completed on the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U62	First reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (transposition of the freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of crime) 308 begins. Initiator waitress Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U63	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! This draft, initiated by the government, has two main objectives. The first objective is to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the organisation of the freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of crime in the European Union. The second objective is to organise, simplify and make more flexible the handling of evidence, seized assets and findings. This is also the case with regard to the withdrawal of certain competences in relation to the law applicable to rural governments. I will present a summary of the main changes. First of all, I am talking about the European directive. First, the definition of the means of committing the offence and the property obtained by the offence is clarified. Secondly, the circle of criminal offences for which extended confiscation of property derived from a criminal offence can be applied will be extended to waive the requirement that a person should be punished for at least one year or for life and to specify the regulation of extended confiscation of property derived from the criminal offence. Thirdly, it provides for the possibility of replacing the means of committing the crime and the confiscation of the direct object of the crime. Fourthly, the grounds for the trial of the case without the defendant being present are supplemented. Fifthly, the special procedure provided for in Chapter 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is also extended to confiscation of the means of committing the offence and the direct object of the crime. I now list the main proposed changes in relation to the current law in relation to the handling of evidence, confiscated property and findings. First, the Ministry of Finance is appointed to manage confiscated property, the authorised authority is specifically the Tax and Customs Board, if the property has been confiscated in the proceedings of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board or if the immovable property or security was confiscated, and the Ministry of the Interior (the authorised authority is the Police and Border Guard Board), if the property has been confiscated in the proceedings of other institutions. Secondly, it will make it more flexible to find the most socially useful application of confiscated assets, allowing the manager of state assets to manage the confiscated assets on an equal footing with other state assets. Thirdly, a clear regulation is created for the disposal or destruction of assets deposited with the State due to the lack of interest of the owner. Fourthly, the retention of evidence during the proceedings is clarified and brought into line with the reality. I would like to point out to Parliament that the draft does not change the way in which property seized or confiscated under a special law, such as weapons, explosives or property disposed of on a customs auction under customs law, is held and disposed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U64	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U65	Good manager! Good minister! There are many questions, but a very interesting observation came out. Compared to 2015, the number of rapes of people up to 18 years of age is on the rise, with a half-yearly result in four months. Using the influence of sexual activity, the number of cases is particularly in decline, but the number of cases of sexual intercourse with a child is already extremely high, which is on the rise. What's behind this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U66	When it comes to crimes against the right to sexual self-determination, it is certainly the general trend behind this that the report has grown. It is certainly positive that people dare to report these crimes. Awareness has grown and it has also been a conscious policy of the state. Where there is a risk or risk in these matters, the authorities shall be obliged to monitor and, where appropriate, inform them. As far as these specific figures are concerned, it is, on the one hand, that the report has increased. On the other hand, this is the fact that in certain types of crime, such as crimes against property, theft, we are talking about thousands or tens of thousands of registered crimes per year. These crimes, which you mentioned, are recorded considerably less, which means that life is not in line with average statistics for so small figures. More crimes are committed in one year and less in the second year, but conclusions on the trend can be drawn from a larger sample. That is certainly one answer to this question. As regards the significant growth trend in serious crimes against individuals, this has not been stated in criminal policy in recent years and the statistics, if combined, do not show this on a consolidated basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U67	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U68	Good manager! Good waitress! Yes, these are interesting signs, but the number of sexual intercourse with a child has increased dramatically. If this continues, the limit of the previous year will be three times exceeded by the end of the year. But here's my question. If I steal something and run away with a bicycle taken from that house or from the cabin, what happens next? The DA's office thinks it's a tool that should be confiscated, but your ministry thinks it doesn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U69	Thank you. Confiscation is certainly an important issue where a clear border is needed. I think this ministry approach is useful right now. The new Government Union has also agreed that the extension of confiscation in criminal proceedings should be supported. In cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, we will certainly develop additional proposals, especially as regards so-called 'enlarged confiscation'. The extended confiscation does not mean confiscation of all property, but that is the case when the confiscation of property the origin of which cannot be proved by a person, I mean the person who is accused of a particular crime and whose guilt is ultimately presumed to be found by the court and to be punished. So, certainly, in the case of confiscation, the rate must be such that, in justified cases, consideration must be given to broadening responsibility. In the case of a crime such as child abuse, no norm or accepted tolerance level can of course exist. This is one of the most bizarre acts in terms of human mind or general human behavior, and therefore the state's criminal policy considers the identification and investigation of these acts to be one of the central priorities. Thus, when setting priorities, the entire research chain has been established. The state's criminal policy also deals with these penalties accordingly. As regards the so-called repeated pedophiles, for these persons, I intend to present legislative amendments to Parliament in the near future, which would allow life imprisonment to be applied as a maximum penalty.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U70	Thank you, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The rapporteur is Heljo Pikhof, President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 8 November, a regular meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs was held, with a number of items on the agenda, including the draft law 308 on the amendment of the Penal Code to be discussed today and the related amendment of other laws. Half of the members of the Commission were present at this meeting and half were absent. We also had invited guests who explained the objectives of the draft and experts who expressed their views. Our esteemed Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, Head of the Legal Order Service of the Ministry of Justice, Karmen Vilms, and others were invited. Tanel Kalmet was also present, who spoke not only about what Urmas Reinsalu said here today, but also about a number of important changes and the reasons for them. Since Urmas Reinsalu has already discussed the basic objectives of this draft, I will start with what Tanel Kalmet said. He pointed out that this was a directive on confiscated property and explained that a few years ago, the Penal Code allowed extended confiscation in cases where the person had been sentenced to three years imprisonment. A few years ago, however, it was changed and the penalty was one year in prison. As a result of the directive, the one-year rate disappears and, in the case of certain crimes, extended confiscation becomes mandatory, i.e. property other than property which has been shown to have been the subject of this particular crime will also be confiscated and assets whose legal origin cannot be established. Tanel Kalmet also explained that the Directive does not distinguish between an instrument and an object, which is why the definitions are specified. The court may also confiscate, under the Directive, an instrument used or intended to be used. If property obtained by a criminal offence is mixed with other assets, the Directive may consider replacing confiscation. He added that this would also concern the confiscation of third party property if the criminal had given or sold the property to a third party. Like I said, you can confiscate it. Kalmet added that the Directive also lists the acts for which extended confiscation must be possible and consequently the special part of the Penal Code has been corrected on the basis of the principle of minimal amendment. The Commission was asked whether the Ministry had considered the possibility that the property at the disposal of the PBA would be made available for private use, for example whether wheels which had not been identified as owner could be placed at the disposal of the wheel stations. The official's explanation was that if no owner was identified in criminal proceedings, such property would then be considered as an asset. According to the current law, the owner of the property is a local government. Tanel Kalmet also noted that the deadline for transposition of the Directive was 4 October 2016 and the Ministry asked the Parliament to take this into account when processing the draft, i.e. the draft is urgent. The Commission also adopted decisions. It was proposed that 308 drafts be placed on the plenary agenda by 23 November, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 2 December. All these decisions were taken by consensus. The proposal was to appoint Mr Pikhof as rapporteur, and the members of the Commission also found a consensus on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U72	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 308. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 2 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U73	The first reading of the bill of amendment of the Law of the bailiff initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, waitress for the initiators, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U74	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! This bill has a history. The law adopted during the previous parliamentary term significantly reduced the fees of bailiffs. This is now a law that is already in force, which will come into effect, i.e. it will enter into force on 1 January 2017. What will happen from 1 January 2017? In enforcement proceedings, the deadline for voluntary enforcement will be extended to 30 days. It's very rational in itself. People generally live from one regular monthly income to another, whether it is a salary or a pension or some kind of support. It is now possible for a person to wait for one period during volunteering and he/she will be able to pay that amount the next month when the income arises. Second of all, this kind of thing happens. If the bailiff is able to collect all the debt at once by freezing an electronic bank account, it is now figuratively said that if he makes a single move or one procedure, he takes the amount of the debt from the electronic bank account, then he actually receives a percentage of the amount of the debt. This means that for a debt of EUR 10 000, the amount resulting from one procedure may be EUR 1000. As of 1 January 2017, the dome has a total of 16 euros and the whole story. No matter how much this amount is, there's just one fixed fee. Thirdly, we must bear in mind the question, which, even during the economic crisis, caused a great deal of tension and is, in fact, still topical. If people have a problem with having to put their home for sale, their home or other real estate into forced execution, the current fee is up to 3% of the total sale price of the property. Now a clear dome of up to EUR 2 000 is being set up, and there can be no more. This is a law adopted which will apply from 1 January 2017. What is the real effect of this when it applies? This means that the income of bailiffs will be greatly reduced. The bailiffs are freelancers, they are certain public functions. The sales revenue of bailiffs in 2014 was EUR 13.7 million. These amounts, which are set off with specific cuts and which have been analysed by the Ministry, are as follows: Firstly, the increase in the period for voluntary payment in the event of payment of debts should reduce the turnover of bailiffs by EUR 1 to EUR 1.5 million. Secondly, the fixed premium limit for real estate would reduce the remuneration of EUR 300000 to EUR 500000. Thirdly, the lower fee for e-rest (the percentage of the amount to be recovered cannot be taken according to this table, let's say, but only the payment of EUR 16) reduces the turnover by EUR 2.5 to 3.5 million. This is the estimated amount. Let us conclude that all this sales revenue, accounting term, was EUR 13.7 million for bailiffs, and now we are seeing a significant fall. There was no doubt that the previous Parliament had legitimate objectives when it took these steps, but already at that time the Ministry of Justice expressed its willingness to ensure a certain degree of balance and to review the sustainability of the freelance service for bailiffs. In short, a sled can be flushed down a mountain, but now we have to drag that sled back to the mountain again to ensure that the service is provided. Here are a number of changes that should help ensure the sustainability of bailiffs' activities. In addition, there are changes that should facilitate and make more transparent public civilian turnover and ensure a more flexible exercise of the bailiff's functions. The general principle is that enforcement proceedings before a bailiff for four years should be suspended if there have been no receipts in the last six months. It shall apply only to procedures in which debt is incurred in economic and professional activity, i.e. in respect of claims of a legal person who is a collector. This does not apply to claims by a natural person. However, if the claimant wishes the bailiff to pursue his claim actively, the bailiff shall have the right to charge the claimant a fee of up to EUR 50 for the continuation of the enforcement proceedings. Firstly, it is important to remember that it is up to EUR 50. Secondly, it must be taken into account that it applies only to requirements arising out of economic activity. Thirdly, this procedure has been in an active phase for four years, i.e. the bailiff has had to do real things, figuratively, he has had to go to the door and find out whether the person is working abroad or is holding him out of the proceedings, so the bailiff has had to identify the person and his property. If the proceedings are suspended, as the bailiffs have confirmed and the explanatory memorandum to the draft does not apply to mass enquiries. This means that the active actions will stop, but the mass queries will remain. A mass inquiry means that the registers are searched to find out whether a person has developed any assets and what his or her situation is, whether he or she has gone to work and is paid. The question is that if this advice is realized and the debtor receives the money, this fee of up to EUR 50 will, of course, be charged to the debtor, the economic and professional practitioner. This general rule remains in force in the system of freelance bailiffs. This system is maintained by payments made by debtors or persons who circumvent obligations. The draft will give bailiffs the opportunity to engage in economic activities alongside their profession, in which they will require the fulfilment of a financial obligation in which there is no enforceable title. In essence, bailiffs' activities are broadened and additional income thereby creates the prerequisites for the sustainability of the administration of bailiffs' offices. This is a very important principle. In his own case, the bailiff cannot carry out financial obligations or conduct such business practices; he cannot have two functions at the same time. When he deals, figuratively speaking, with the recovery of debts in respect of other obligations, he deals with it, but he cannot deal with it in his own affairs where there are no enforcement documents, but there is an obligation that the practitioner of this profession wishes to realise. There has been a public controversy about this and this whole bill. Understandably, this is a problem for companies providing collection services, as bailiffs would then be added to the market for these services. It is organised differently in European countries. The system of freelance bailiffs is built up in and out of the country. So it's the legislator's choice. We too can do so as the legislator sees fit. The bailiffs will be able to operate through a registered office in the form of a private limited company. In addition, notaries are also entitled to open an office in a different area of work in addition to the area to which they are referred. The bailiffs will be given the opportunity to provide a new service outside the court proceedings to find out the legal fact. The bailiff's assistants are given the opportunity to sell property under the control of the bailiff and by other means and to comply with the decisions that ensure the right to communicate with the child. It also regulates the obligation for bailiffs to ensure that early enforcement requirements are met as a matter of priority and sets out the conditions and deadlines under the law on certain procedural measures, such as the suspension and termination of enforcement proceedings, the revocation of an income seizure act, the resolution of complaints and the termination of enforcement proceedings. There is also positive news in comparison with the provisions governing the bailiff's income and procedures. The entries in the enforcement register become public in some respects. The draft does not create a register of enforcement procedures accessible to all, but creates the possibility of obtaining information through the application on the website of the Law Enforcement Tribunals and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators, whether the person has debts to the enforcement proceedings and the extent to which the claim arising from the enforcement document is due. I think this is an extremely important change in terms of transparency of economic turnover. It is clear, in particular as regards participation in professional economic activity, that this is important because it creates the possibility for interested parties to establish contractual relations, to verify the payment behaviour of the other party and to draw conclusions on the likelihood of obtaining the possibility to realise the other party's obligations as well. In addition to the above amendments, the draft enforcement procedure gives legal meaning to entries in the register insofar as bailiffs are in the process of introducing a new information system that offers considerably greater opportunities than in the past. The draft also removes some shortcomings in the current regulation, as they sometimes do. For example, there will be the possibility of disciplinary proceedings by the Honorary Court against a suspended bailiff and of extending the rules on the transfer of the liability and jurisdiction of the dismissed bailiff to the dismissed bailiff. There was an apology in the Commission about this draft, and I am going ahead now. A serious controversy. There are some collating interests here in terms of 'different market participants', above all, the provision of collection services, as well as the introduction of a fee of up to EUR 50 in the area of requirements for economic and professional activities. As I said in the Commission, the Ministry of Justice is fully open and ready to seek a common section under the leadership of the Commission as the initiator of the draft. We will certainly help to find solutions as the initiator of the draft. This draft is not a formal draft; there are indeed different choices of principle and substance. I wish Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs the strength to make these choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U75	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U76	Good manager! Good minister! As I see it, Estonia has the longest period of proceedings in the European Union, during which the bailiff here spends 693 days. How has the record been reached that, on average, two years will take one procedure and more than half a million proceedings will be waiting?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U77	Thank you. This is certainly something that I cannot be satisfied with or consider normal. Normal civil turnover includes the ability to ensure the fulfilment and realisation of obligations so that the capitalist market economy can function at all. If this is not the case, it is undoubtedly a market failure that results in more expensive goods and services. Who's gonna pay for the money left over from the debts? It's paid for by people with honest payment behaviour. There is no doubt about that. The Ministry of Justice prepares the package next spring for an insolvency review, which concerns, above all, the so-called "ancillary" tools to call off economic and professional players who are evading their business obligations. Another and certainly important change, which was also mentioned in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which we have proposed at the first stage to improve maintenance requirements, but I personally support it as a tool for bailiffs in general, is the right to access the bank accounts of obliged persons. This is the place of principled choice, and the credit institutions are definitely on their hind legs because of this. In Finland this debate was held in the late 1980s, then a decision was taken. In Finland, this agency is a state agency, in our sense it would be like an executive agency or an office of bailiffs. That's where government officials work. In Finland this right was granted. I have spoken to the head of the Finnish executive agency, who said that their performance in recovering claims improved by about 20%. What's this about? This allows the conduct of this person to be monitored: where he receives income and how he lives. From its surface, you can make "precisely targeted" secondary queries and try to retrieve property. So, yes, it is true that we have reason to further support the enforcement system. I am concerned about this draft because when we talk about resources, it must be taken into account that these people do not work on a voluntary basis, but that the bailiffs system is still built on the principle of 'balance'. These resources are derived from the results of procedural procedures and are thus maintained in the system. As I said, EUR 13.7 million was the revenue from sales in 2014 and now there is a projected large fall, which could reach 25%. That's my problem. It is not a question of whether the executives are overpaid or underpaid, but of the fact that, if we do not find a solution in one way or the other, it will clearly mean that the procedural times will stretch because the resources to deal with proceedings in this system are simply inevitably fewer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U78	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U79	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I have to admit, the system is getting a lot messier, because the bailiff, as I understand it, can finally deliver two in one, so he can start forming private partnerships, foundations for his ancillary activities. The question now arises of data protection. The data sent to the bailiff is not used for commercial purposes? It has been mentioned here that the Ministry of Justice will supervise, but how will the Ministry of Justice do so? Will there be a separate department for this purpose, whether only applications are processed, or whether there will be any sudden checks? In Estonia, data protection issues definitely need revision and review. How have you thought about this aspect? This is gonna get a little crazy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U80	Thank you. We have proposed this model with the assumption that watertight bulkheads must exist. If these partitions dissipate or if we do not have the conviction and belief that they will be able to function, then there is certainly a danger to the system's balance. I do not deny that the original application of the House of bailiffs or their appeal was such that they did not consider these watertight bulkheads necessary, but they also, figuratively speaking, wish to provide the collection service in matters in which they themselves have an enforcement function. This is not what we considered to be appropriate; here, I believe, the logic of the conflict of interest arises. How will this monitoring be carried out? State supervision is carried out by the Ministry of Justice, which has a separate freelance service, where officials work in both ways. There's always complaints about bailiffs. It is clear that there is a conflict situation because bailiffs want to get property from individuals, but in many cases the bailiffs find that either they cross the boundaries of the law or they do not act sensibly. People complain and these things are handled. These are not rare cases, they are not just one or two complaints. Complaints are inevitable in a conflict situation of this type, so-called built-in, such as enforcement proceedings. There have been dramatic cases. In the last year, there have been several conflict situations that resulted in violence between the bailiff and the debtor. There is no doubt that supervision can be carried out and, in certain cases, is also done on the initiative of the Ministry itself when the rules of compliance are checked. That's the principle of law we've foreseen in this way. There is no possibility of looking at bank accounts in this law, but just as in this case, it is undoubtedly important to ensure that data protection requirements are met. I believe that it is also reasonable to consult the Data Protection Inspectorate in the Committee on Legal Affairs during further proceedings. I would like to say that the current design of the Ministry should, in our opinion, ensure a minimum, reasonable and rational level of security.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U81	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am interested in the impact of this bill on this aspect of the amendment of the Notarial Law. I read here that there is an opportunity to expand the areas of activity of notaries. Can it not have the effect or effect of keeping only stronger notaries that can expand more, but in small places the availability of services is actually deteriorating? The Manotars are no longer able to keep their area, and this service goes beyond people and there is centralisation, which is not good.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U83	Thank you. This is a very exciting question, because it can be argued in one direction or the other. Our goal in doing this thing or seeking this opportunity is precisely to ensure the sustainability of the landowners. But now the question is what the result is. Interestingly, it is some notaries operating in rural areas, especially in South Estonia, that have applied for this right, let us say, outside Tallinn. In Estonia, the notarial system is currently structured in such a way that there are territorial aquariums and notaries operating in each aquarium, it is specifically distributed. Unfortunately, the demographic trend is, as we regrettably see, that the number of inhabitants in certain counties has fallen by a fifth or more between the penultimate and the last census. Such regions exist. So, what's the problem? It is no secret that if you go to the city centre of Tallinn and look at the location of the notary offices there, you can see that they have generally chosen a place in the vicinity of the banks and very rationally. It's good to go to the notary from the bank now. If you buy houses or factories or other big things, you can go to the notary to make deals. Of course, if you compare the livelihood of notaries, you can see that it is relatively better in a place like this. The question now is that, if this is allowed, there is a risk that notaries located in Tallinn, figuratively speaking, will come to a relatively poorer area, they will push in and take over, or there will be a reverse situation where the notary of South Estonia has a duty to ensure the availability of notary services in South Estonia, but it will also be able to expand to some more prosperous area. The request of the auditors was based on this latter logic. The right thing is that the House of Notaries itself is opposed to this change, or, let's say, the leaders of the Chamber of Notaries have expressed their opposition. It is clear here that this amendment will reallocate the market between notaries. The question is what is the real impact of this change. The assumption of the Ministry of Justice is that it would rather ensure a certain degree of sustainability or offer the possibility of obtaining an additional source of income, namely, in areas with lower income potential. If the Committee on Legal Affairs has any objective doubt that this outcome could be the opposite, and if we come to that conclusion during the debate, I can safely say that this is not the aim pursued by this standard. Here, sanity must be used to discuss logical arguments and to do so with representatives of notaries in opposing positions. The major problem is that, if we look at those liberal professions with uniform rates of pay, we will see, say, this strategically penetrating problem due to demographic trends. Inevitably, these scissors remain. Whether bailiffs or notaries, they do transactions in different regions where income levels vary. How can we solve this problem? It would be unfair to impose higher notary fees in rural areas, which would be a completely perverse regional policy. We're looking in the wider picture for ideas on how to solve it. There may be one way, I will not rule it out if there is some kind of extra payment that would be shared through the Chamber of Notaries. Figuratively speaking, part of this fee would be converted into operating grants for notaries in rural areas. This would undoubtedly make the system more complex, but the whole system must be balanced with common sense and one of its objectives must be that the service is available and that the public functions are available in the form of liberal professions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U84	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U85	Good manager! Good minister! We'll come back to the bailiffs. As I understand it, notaries are almost half hungry and need to increase their income. The livestock farmers know that if the trough is small and the animals are large, there are two options: either the trough is larger or the animals are smaller. My question is, maybe it's a competition issue. How many bailiffs do we actually have as a ratio compared to other European Union countries? I hear there's too many of them here. Or is that not so?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U86	Thank you. There's a certain logic here. We must take into account that we cannot measure it mechanically because we have a dispersedly populated country. On the other hand, our people are much smaller than some superpower. These parameters must be taken into account. Indeed, it has been pointed out here that, compared to some large Western European countries, we have more actuators or notaries per capita. But this is exactly the same as the regional balance point that needs to be taken into account. If you look at the workload and the number of claims or transactions, the fact is that there is no time problem here for notary transactions. This service, I think, is quite normally available in Estonia. As far as the general period of proceedings for bailiffs is concerned, this is certainly a matter where there is a very serious problem. Are we going to optimize this network? The central result would be the abrupt and rigid closure of the service in rural areas. The main turnover is generated and the activity and work are inevitably carried out where there are more people. It's sane. The fact is that the economic boom and the real estate boom gave a lot of work to notaries. Then the crisis came and the bailiffs quickly gained more bread, but the notaries' fees decreased and their relative income fell. Now the situation is more normal, I think the optimism is starting to develop. But the functioning of these two agencies is linked to the economic cycle. We must take into account that until they are largely self-sufficient, they will start to influence these systems with a certain delay.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U87	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U88	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I have a philosophical question. Today, bailiffs are public bodies, as I understand it. What would happen if we released the market and they were no longer public bodies? What's the big deal? As you mentioned before, the actual work is done by the bailiffs, the bailiffs are essentially responsible only for their signature and seal verification, they also cash in, but other people do their job for them. Would it not be reasonable for this agency to transfer to a free market, so that the public bodies should not be members of the public? It's just a philosophical question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U89	In a broader sense, this is a very serious issue which is being discussed very seriously in different countries. This concerns, for example, some sort of surveillance power or even the power of a private charge. Here, in general, the axis of the Estonian state has been such that the power monopoly must be on the state and the state will issue this power monopoly in extremely narrow corridors. The powers of public authority are exercised by bailiffs, they have a public chamber and a very clear room for supervision. If it could be that there is, figuratively speaking, every man's right to enforce these obligations, then it would be a question of powers immediately. I would be unsavory if anyone was given the right to seize my property, to impose significant restrictions, such as taking part in my salary to meet some kind of requirement, which may be debatable. Now we are talking about property claims, but there may also be a place of residence or custody of children, and some international element may come in. I would rather be more conservative in this regard. But this debate, which model could be considered, is happening completely in different countries. In that direction, so that they can theoretically enter the market of the collection service, the executives will undoubtedly move when they receive certain powers mentioned by the previous speaker, but they will not receive any additional powers in terms of the power conferred on them by law. They simply gain the right to engage in certain activities. This is not a licensed activity. In order to carry out financial obligations as an economic activity, any person can engage if he or she endures a nerve and is able to get involved in these matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U90	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have expressed the idea here on several occasions in the Chamber of the Riigikogu that there are too many laws in Estonia and that our lives are becoming over-regulated. If, according to this principle, you appreciate this draft law, how much do you think it will ensure long-term stability in society in this area? From the point of view of legislation, I would like to bring your position into line with this bill. Do you think this is one example that we have too many laws, or is this law necessary and will last for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U92	Thank you. I think it would have been reasonable if these things had been viewed together. It was not an initiative in itself here, but, in my opinion, it is an objective consequence of what was done by the previous Parliament. He took bona fide, legitimate and logical steps to protect debtors so that enforcement fees were not too high, but there was a financial hole, as was clearly admitted at the time. This problem must be resolved. I don't think there was a very serious controversy at the Justice Department for a long time. We made a plan, discussed it, and found a notional balance. I say completely frankly: I am not saying that this is an ideal balance point. There may be different ways to fill this gap, which poses a very serious threat to the sustainability of bailiffs. I'm sure the Committee on Legal Affairs is the place to look for this balance. I would have welcomed this logic if the good things in debtor terms and the things balancing the system had come together, either during the previous term or now, then things could have been viewed in balance. Otherwise, there tends to be a reduction in taxes during one composition and an increase in taxes during the other because of the budget gap. I guess that's what happened right now, what I'm denying.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U93	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Chamber of Commerce and Industry has already pointed out a problem in the coordination circle, namely that the assets of many debtors are actually abroad. This draft law still does not allow the bailiff to deal with assets located outside the country. Is and how does the Ministry even see the possibility of resolving such a relationship between an asset located outside Estonia and a debtor?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U95	Thank you. It's a very exciting subject. I think that one thing is the world as a whole, but if we take into account the countries from which and where we have a very tight, say, penetration, for example, Finland, it is, of course, extremely topical. Our bailiffs, as well as the Finnish bailiffs, have formed a single working group. We agreed with the Finnish Minister for Justice that they would soon come to the conclusions of this working group. In two countries, we are trying to create in some ways a single space where it is possible to start dealing with these things more quickly. A random sample has been made and a certain number of citizens from either country who live in one country or another have been taken from the population register, and it has indeed become apparent that there is enough of these 'obligations' in front of their country of origin, starting with parking tickets. Clearly, your duties must be fulfilled wherever you live. There's no way out of here. The other thing is that I've been offering new ideas about the people who owe them a living. We had a very serious controversy with the Ministry of the Interior. My logic in this matter, how to ensure certain checks on the movement of persons, was that if a person does not pay a child's livelihood, the victim is a child, in the sense that he or she is a sufferer, the free movement of a person cannot be limited in itself, but the state should not issue him or her a travel document, or passport. He can pay off his debt and then he can get a passport and go abroad. In general, going abroad without a passport is a violation of the law. It's probably a short time in some country, but generally it's very difficult to operate abroad without a passport. I'm talking about a push like that. I'm not talking about putting a man in a prison somewhere for life. It is not a question, it is a question of man's fulfillment of his duties. If smart ways were invented to achieve this, I'd just welcome it. So people who live in other countries have problems fulfilling their obligations. For example, when we talk about the responsibility of military service, there is also a question of how to ensure that this obligation is fulfilled when people live in different parts of the world. I think it would be rational to use the restriction on issuing a travel document, as Finland does.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U96	Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! The rapporteur for the Legal Affairs Committee is Raivo Time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U97	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 18 October, the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, gave an overview of the content and objectives of the 280 draft law. This draft is then the same draft law amending the law of the bailiff and, in connection with it, the amendment of other laws. Invited to attend the meeting of the Legal Affairs Committee, apart from the Minister of Justice Reinsalu Justice, Gunnar Vaikmaa, Head of the Department of Free Professions of the Ministry of Justice Policy Department of Justice, Mati Kadak, Chairman of the Board of Law Enforcement and Bankrat Administrators, and Janek Pool, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Supervisory Board, Lindorff Eesti AS sales manager, Vivian Murd, Julianus Inkasso Chairman of the Board of Directors and Ülar Maapalu, Member of the Board of the Association of Estonian Credit Management Companies, Attorney General Aivar Pilv, Võru notar Triin Tein, Chairman of Notari Koja Tarvo Puri and Chairman of the Board of the Board of the Estonian Credit Administration Association, Anneli Alekand. As we have already heard here from the Minister of Justice's long explanation, the fact that changes in the fees of bailiffs will enter into force from 1 January 2017 will significantly reduce the turnover of bailiffs. This has a direct impact on the ability to maintain offices. It has been estimated that, as a whole, changes could lead to a drop in turnover by a quarter, which puts many bailiffs in a position where consideration should be given to the possibility of continuing in office. However, as we have just heard here, changes are necessary because the charges that have been in place so far are proportionately too high and unjustified and impose a burden on the parties to the procedure. In addition, the fact that, when the amendments came into force on 1 January, the Ministry of Justice made a commitment to the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators that this problem would be dealt with before 2017 and the Ministry of Justice would try to find a solution. This amendment also introduces significant changes to the Notarial Law. They widen the opportunities for notaries in their work. The main content of the amendments is that notaries are given the opportunity and the right to open their offices in areas other than the area to which they are referred. At the same time, however, the law clearly regulates the obligation to ensure the availability of the service in the area to which this notary is referred. The conditions under which this service must be available in this other region shall also be defined. This is particularly important in terms of the expansion of the possibilities of notaries who work in a certain sense in unequal conditions compared to notaries working in large cities, I mean notaries whose area of work is peripheral areas, where population density is low and population declines. It must be said that the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs was intense and very long. The details and details of this debate can be found in the Commission's minutes. In terms of time savings, I'm not going to read all the points of view. I will bring out the main and perhaps the most important examples. During the debate, Commissioner Toomas Vitsut put forward a hypothesis that there might be 47 bailiffs too many. He asked how to view the fact that the bill violates the principle that the government does not intervene in business. Minister of Justice Reinsalu replied that the number of bailiffs has already decreased compared to the number of bailiffs during the economic crisis, which is at an optimal level. The draft will give new market participants the opportunity to enter the market. The question also arose as to whether there was unfair competition when bailiffs took advantage of their profession when entering the country of employment of the collection service. Janek Pool explained that the bailiff, who provides the collection service, must under no circumstances present himself as bailiffs, and must keep these two offices very clearly separate. A representative of bailiffs confirmed that the pending draft is very important to maintain the functioning of the enforcement system, as otherwise only five or six larger offices and others can be left. As a statistical example, a comparison was made that there is one bailiff per 30000 inhabitants in Estonia, one bailiff per 25000 inhabitants in Europe on average, which is essentially not very different. It was also pointed out that in several European countries, such as the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Macedonia and Lithuania, bailiffs have been given an analogous opportunity to increase their income through the provision of collection services. It was also referred to the fact that, while public servants are generally also allowed to carry out business activities, the current Law on bailiffs imposes an important restriction on entrepreneurship. Ülar Maapalu said that the entire credit market became aware of this controversial draft only at the end of August and found that, since the draft had no economic analysis, it was not possible to assess the usefulness of the decision. Nor, according to him, are they satisfied with the entry of bailiffs into the collection market. They also consider that, while executives carry out both enforcement and entrepreneurship, there is essentially a conflict of interest. Attorney-at-law Aivar Pilv announced that he was asked to prepare an analysis of the draft under discussion. That's what he did. This analysis is fully available on the Riigikogu website. In conclusion, with regard to the position of Aivar Cloud, it believes that the draft is inappropriate in its proposed form and does not comply with good legislative practice, as is the lack of analysis and assessment of its effects. The opinion adds that the implementation of the draft act will lead to market distortions and create undue competitive advantages at the expense of operators providing the collection service and harming their interests. It also considers that it is justified and necessary for providers of collection services to be involved in the discussion of draft legislation and to be heard. As I mentioned, another important point in relation to the draft law is the amendments to the Notarial Law. Tarvo Puri explained that according to the rules of national distribution of notaries, each city is a notary serving local residents. If a notary is given the opportunity to open a branch outside his work area, the Notary Chamber will no longer be able to ensure that every small town has a notary. Similarly, there is no need for new branch offices in larger cities. He proposed deleting the part of the draft concerning notaries because it violates the existing strong and functioning system. Puri also explained that the House of Notaries has a system that allows small town notaries to be subsidised if necessary. The Chamber of Notaries also provides training for notaries. Triin Tein, the notary of Võru, the notary of a small town, stated that Võru, for example, is currently in a situation where they are waiting for a client in the office, not a customer waiting for a notary. The number of transactions is constantly decreasing. For this reason, he pointed out that, on the one hand, the number of inhabitants in rural areas is decreasing and, on the other hand, rural people often work in larger towns nearby and where they work, they usually also carry out their business in banks and registers, as well as notary transactions there. They don't come to the notary of their place of residence to make these deals because they're more comfortable doing it where they work. This was an objection to the position of the Chamber of Notaries, which was not in favour of extending these possibilities for notaries. According to Gunnar Vaikmaa, the Ministry does not consider that the proposed change would result in a mass movement from smaller places to larger places. The Ministry considers that notaries could have the opportunity to open branches, but this means that they have a duty to keep both the main office and the branch. In the notary area to which it has been designated a notary, conditions must not deteriorate at all. The chairman of the committee, Mr Pikhof, proposed that all those who consider it necessary to amend the draft should submit their proposals to the Committee on Legal Affairs by 4 November, together with an explanation. On 14 November the Committee on Legal Affairs continued its discussion. Heljo Pikhof informed the Commission that after the previous meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, proposals had been submitted to the Committee on Legal Affairs by the Chamber of Notaries, the Association of Estonian Credit Management Companies and the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators. In the Commission, a discussion started on whether it would make sense to move forward with the draft. Member of the Commission Kristjan Kõljalg proposed that the draft be rejected at first reading. Mr Vitsut pointed out that, in the proposed form, the draft would create a great deal of confrontation between stakeholders and that it was clear that there was still substantial work to be done with it, but he also highlighted the fact that, in order for the Commission to be able to control the process itself, the first reading of the draft should be completed and the Commission should continue to deal with the draft. Member of the Commission, Raivo Aeg, now a waitress, also noted that, since the interest groups are opposed to the draft and it is obvious that they will not reach a compromise, the state must make its decision. Consequently, the rejection of the draft at first reading is not rational. He was of the opinion that the Commission should continue its work on this relatively technical and non-convergence draft. He added that, if the organisation and coordination of enforcement procedures were ever decided to be given private hands, the state now has a duty to ensure that this sort of national enforcement mechanism preserves its vitality. The alternative is that the state needs to re-coordinated all this activity as a whole. Commission Member Rait Maruste found that once it was decided to turn this activity into a private undertaking, it was up to the State to set up a mechanism to make it work as well as possible. He was of the opinion that since the enforcement system is currently working in practice, it would be possible to take time to find a better solution. Maruste did not support the idea that the Commission should reconsider the government's draft itself. Commissioner Valdo Randpere felt that this was a very incomplete draft and did not support its completion at first reading. At the same time, the Commission's advisor Linnar Liivamägi again highlighted the fact that this legislative amendment also means that the Ministry of Justice will fulfil the promise given to the Chamber to deal with the problem before the amendments enter into force on 1 January 2017. As the positions in the Commission differed, the question was put to the vote whether or not the first reading of the draft should be terminated. The votes were divided as follows: The first reading of the proposal was rejected by 3 members of the Commission (Valdo Randpere, Kristjan Kõljalg and Rait Maruste), 7 members opposed (Raivo Aeg, Uno Kaskpeit, Külliki Kübarsepp, Andrei Novikov, Heljo Pikhof, Mark Soosaar and Toomas Vitsut), with no abstentions. Consequently, the committee proposes that the Riigikogu should conclude the first reading of the draft. It was also decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 23 November (consensually) and that Raivo Aeg (also consensually) be appointed rapporteur and that the first reading be stopped. It was also proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 7 December 2016 with 7 people in favour and 2 against. At this stage, the Commission's work is complete, so we expect the draft to be dealt with in substance in the future within the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U98	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I would first of all like to thank the Commission for its more detailed review of the Commission's work, but I have the question of how the Commission will now proceed with this rather controversial matter. In my opinion, there have been quite a variety of problems piled up here: the work areas of bailiffs and notaries. I will look at this table of comments and proposals. The Chamber of Notaries and the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators have made proposals and their representatives were also present on the Commission, I understand that. But the proposals have also been made by the Chancellor of Justice and I have seen that most of them have not been taken into account. Nor did you mention that the Chancellor of Justice was present. Does it intend to be involved in the further processing of this draft and what are the Commission's future plans? This bill seems rather controversial to me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U100	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, neither the Chancellor of Justice nor his representative was present, and that is why I did not address it when speaking about the debate in the Commission. But I made it very clear that this draft created very controversial positions for the Members of the Commission. The decision was very clear: it must go ahead and involve all the parties in the substantive sense by listening to the proposals. The Commission, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, hopes to reach a rational solution because there is a problem. While bailiffs lose a large part of their turnover and profits as a result of the planned change, it is clear from the point of view of free market conditions that a market participant of some kind must leave that market. But bailiffs have also been provided by the State with the functions that it has given them to perform. This is very important, especially for the purposes of enforcement, enforcement of judgments. If a state's failure to organise the operation of this system creates a situation in which access to the service becomes impossible or significantly deteriorates, it will be obliged to intervene and create conditions for the situation to improve. The State can regulate the way in which the market operates or make it clearly a national obligation and start to subsidise this activity. Once again, I say that this draft will certainly remain in the process for quite a long time, with very heated and meaningful debates to find a compromise solution. But to be honest, the first impression from the Commission sitting, where there were very many parties involved, did not convince us that this compromise would be coming very easily or very quickly. It will be a long and arduous process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U101	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U102	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. The Notarial Board was the first attempt to establish an institution of independent state officials during the restored independence of Estonia. It was a complete success. The institution of bailiffs in this case will certainly copy this initial positive experience. These things have not only a fundamental economic side, but it is important that the Agency brings in enough. My question, purely, is whether the need to amend the notarial law on these two subjects, because the population is relocated, and the transformation of the world of bailiffs should not be dealt with in separate laws. Couldn't the Commission divide the draft law into two or even three drafts, which could then all be dealt with normally? Sorry I'm late!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U103	Yes, I think your proposal is completely objective and constructive. It should be considered whether the Ministry of Justice has come from the government a draft; it is not a draft initiated by the Commission itself; it would be willing to subtract this draft from the principle of rationality into two separate drafts. I have been discussing this bill and I know that these are two completely separate problems. It was clear that in one company there were members of the representative organizations of bailiffs, and in the other there were notaries, one half bored when the other spoke. There is no point in wasting time on the part of respected people who attend meetings of the Commission and could really deal with these issues in separate drafts, but it still depends, above all, on the Ministry of Justice. There should be a new approach to this process through the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U104	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U105	I'll ask you another question. In fact, I have had the impression, based on the experiences of many people, that certain bailiffs and certain collection companies are intertwined and are working together under conditions that seem almost criminal from the outside. Would it be possible for you to carry out some kind of in-depth investigation in this area, because for everyone, this argument probably cannot be true again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U106	Yeah, that's an interesting point of view as to whether the Committee on Legal Affairs has the authority to start identifying criminal ties. I think it is more the competence of the procedural authorities, and I hope that they will deal with such matters than they do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U107	Thank you, Raivo Time! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Committee on Legal Affairs has decided by a majority that the first reading of the 280 draft should be terminated. First reading is complete. By the deadline for tabling amendments, I will set 7 December at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U108	The first reading of the draft Act 330 on the ratification of the Protocol on the Status of the Baltic Defence College and its staff, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania begins. Minister of Defence Margus Tsahkna as the initiator of the draft, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U109	Dear Chairman, Good Riigikogu! The draft act ratifying the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the status of the Baltic Defence College and its staff is to amend the Protocol on the Baltic Defence College and its staff ratified by the Riigikogu. The purpose of the amendment is to compensate foreign staff posted to the Baltic Defence College for the VAT paid on certain goods purchased from Estonia during the first year. These items are set out in the Annex to the Protocol. These include motor vehicles to a limited extent, interior decoration elements (e.g. furniture), electric household appliances, office and audiovisual equipment (e.g. computers and printers), and sports equipment and equipment. The purpose of this protocol is to reduce the costs incurred by external staff during the period of admission. It will make the working conditions of the external staff of the College similar to those of other staff in the NATO and European Union Member States. The purpose of the compensation is guaranteed by specific restrictions. There are three limitations to the use of the benefit: it is only available to people posted to the College by other countries and can be used within one year of entering the college and only for the purchase of the goods mentioned in the Protocol. Why are we doing this? The lack of a VAT incentive has been regularly identified as a problem by staff posted by other NATO and EU countries at several meetings of the College. This has been perceived as unequal treatment, since these VAT concessions apply to Estonian defence forces serving in NATO institutions in their home countries. VAT reimbursement significantly improves the College's reputation and facilitates the deployment of military personnel from other European Union and NATO countries. These faculty members in turn raise the level of military education provided in the college and support the college's development into an internationally recognised high-level educational institution. The foreign lecturers who teach in the college are also part of the presence of the allies in Estonia. Thus, the entry into force of the Amending Protocol will have a positive impact on Estonia's security, as well as on the security of Latvia and Lithuania, as the Protocol passed its second reading in Latvia on 17 November and will be processed in the Lithuanian Parliament in December when it arrives, or at the beginning of January. So all three countries are planning to make these changes. This amendment also entails the costs foreseen in the budget of the Ministry of Defence. For the first year, the estimated costs are EUR 38302 and for the next year an average of EUR 12000. These amounts are calculated on the basis of the human composition of the college. The administrative burden of tax refunds does not increase significantly as tax refund systems are already in place and are in operation. That is the content of this draft. I ask the Riigikogu to support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U110	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U111	Good manager! Good minister! Nice talk, of course, but the question I have is that specific. If an officer who comes here buys a car, a bicycle, a blender, a iron, a barbecue or a sang bomb, he'll be paid for VAT, but if he buys sports clothes, a bathtub or a smoke detector, he won't get his VAT back. What kind of logic is that, what's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U112	Thank you, good questioner! The Annex to the Protocol specifically states what is to be reimbursed. I also read out this list: motor vehicles on a limited scale, interior decoration elements (in particular furniture) etc. But actually, it's a wider question. These are the so-called expenses of settling in Estonia, i.e. the costs of settling in here, where you are prepared to refund VAT to a certain extent. After all, this system is also used by diplomats. Our interest is to encourage qualified professionals to come to Estonia, but we are in just an unequal situation compared to other countries. So they keep an eye on not making unreasonable expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U113	Thank you, manager. Good minister! I still didn't get the answer to the fact that if the VAT part is refunded when you buy the dumbbells and the Sangbomb, but if you buy sports clothes, where does that make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U114	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U115	Thank you, good questioner! I have not set up this logic, in the sense that the exact list has been agreed between the specialists in the Baltic States. It is not described here as a specific protocol. So common sense is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U116	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you. The rapporteur for the National Defence Committee is Mart Helme, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U117	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I must repeat to some extent what the Minister said, but repetition is the mother of wisdom, as we know. Why is this repetition necessary? Because these issues, including the same questions that Mr Ernits raised here, were, to some extent, also in the debate in the Commission. It should start with this debate in the Commission on 16 November. Chancellor Vseviov of the Ministry of Defence and some other officials were also present. The starting point is that on June 14, 1999, a protocol on the status of the Baltic Defence College and its staff was signed in Riga. The Riigikogu ratified this protocol on 13 October 1999. Under this protocol, this is important in order to understand why we are dealing with this change at all at the moment, and it was foreseen that the College, as an authority, would benefit from VAT concessions when purchasing goods. If the College bought something, it was possible to recover VAT from those purchases. However, the 1999 Protocol did not provide for any VAT benefits for staff seconded to the College. Now it is now under discussion for the external staff posted to the College that I stress the word 'foreign personnel' in Estonia for personal use and the refund of VAT paid on the durable goods listed in the Annex to the Protocol during the first year of service. This 'first year of service' is also important because it means that VAT cannot be recovered not throughout the entire period spent here, theoretically perhaps for the entire period until retirement, but only during the first year. The idea is, of course, that the benefit is intended for people to establish life in Estonia. The amendment does not concern people hired from the Estonian labour market in the Baltic Defence College, but only those posted from abroad to the College. The level of military education in the college depends on the teaching staff posted abroad to the college. The reimbursement of VAT will undoubtedly contribute to the recruitment of better professionals and will also improve the College's reputation as an External Action Service. Money, as the Minister said, is foreseen from the Ministry of Defence budget and no additional costs will be added to Estonia. However, the country's tax revenues will decrease, but this reduction will be marginal, as this benefit would extend to 22 people in the first year and, on average, to 7 people per year in the future. So we are not really talking about any masses or any huge amounts of VAT. At its meeting on 16 November, the committee decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft (consensually). The Commission also unanimously decided to propose a deadline of 7 December at 5.05 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U118	Questions for the committee waitress are excluded because no member of the Riigikogu wishes to present them. Thank you, Mart Helme! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of bill 330 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.05 p.m. on 7 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U119	Next, the extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the peace-building mission in Kosovo, begins the first reading of the draft 333. Initiator waitress Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U120	Dear Chairman, Good members of the Riigikogu! The next items concern the mandate of our missions. I don't stop at every point, I'm just talking about this whole picture. There won't be any big changes. By 2017, we will request a total of nine mandates from the Riigikogu for up to 371 active troops for use in international military operations and preparedness units. We request an extension of the existing mandates. No new operations have been added since 2016. In particular, you are currently faced with the draft 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on a peace-building mission in Kosovo'. In 2017, we want to continue to contribute to the Kosovo Force with up to three active troops, as we did in 2016. Estonian active troops serve as staff officers at the Kosovo Force headquarters in Priština. From the point of view of Estonia's foreign and security policy, this is a necessary operation. Kosovo's stability has a significant impact on the security of both the Western Balkans and Europe as a whole. I ask the Riigikogu to support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U121	Question to the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U122	Good manager! Good minister! Thirty-one countries have sent nearly 5,000 military personnel, which is about 150 for each country. Where did this Estonia's 'three' come from, was it taken by population? For example, what is this picture for our neighbours in Finland or Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U123	Thank you. Our mission there has always been a three-member mission. These people work at headquarters. This is our contribution and we do not need to increase it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U124	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you. The rapporteur for the National Defence Committee is Mr Ain Lutsepp, Member of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to this draft decision of the Riigikogu, Estonia will continue to contribute to the NATO-led international peacekeeping mission KFOR (Kosovo Force) in Kosovo in 2017 with up to three members of the Defence Forces, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999. Thus, Estonia fulfils its allied obligations arising from its NATO membership. The service position of the Estonian active troops has been KFOR headquarters in Priština since 2010. Kosovo's stability has a significant impact on the security of both the Western Balkans and Europe as a whole. The aim of the international forces in which Estonia participates is to support the Kosovo Government in ensuring security and stability in the country. On 15 November, the National Defence Commission visited the General Staff of the Defence Forces, where the Chief of the General Staff, Colonel Martin Herem, and other active troops gave an overview of the Defence Forces units in the mission areas and the Defence Forces' readiness to continue the mission in Kosovo. At the meeting of the Defence Commission on 16 November, Chancellor Jonathan Vseviov of the Ministry of Defence and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence presented drafts for the Kosovo mission and other missions involving the Defence Forces. At its meeting on 16 November, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 23 November (consensually). Ain Lutsepp was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided to propose that the Riigikogu terminate the first reading of the draft decision (consensually). The deadline for tabling amendments is 5 December at 10 a.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U126	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U127	Good manager! Good waitress! Maybe you can tell me what the Secretary of Defense couldn't tell me. Where has the ratio of the 'three' that have lasted for years when for each of these 31 countries this figure should be 150 on average? What is the contribution of Finns, Latvians or any other small country like us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U128	Thanks to the questioner! I do not have any data on other countries, but Estonia initially participated with ten active troops, while in 2004 there were 122 active troops. As the situation returned to normal, the number of Estonian Defence Forces was reduced to three. They work as staff officers and staff in Pristina, NATO forces. I don't have a more specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U129	Thank you, Ain Lutsepp! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 333 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 10 a.m. on 5 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U130	Next on our agenda is the first reading of draft 335 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations. Initiator waitress Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U131	Good Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! By decision of the Riigikogu 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to the international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations', we request a mandate which provides for the possibility of using up to 50 Defence Forces active in the first contribution to the international operation, in accordance with § 34 (4) of the National Defence Act, when exceptional circumstances such as the outbreak of a new crisis or the escalation of a crisis require a very rapid response. According to the National Defence Act, the first contribution must be a NATO, NATO Member State, European Union or UN-led operation. With the decision of the Riigikogu to give such a mandate, we can ensure a flexible contribution to Estonia's important international military operation, if necessary. On the basis of the mandate of the Defence Forces, the Government of the Republic decides, taking into account the position of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. Next time, the Riigikogu's participation in this operation would be decided in general terms, as would other mandates. I would ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U132	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U133	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. With exactly the same bill, we were here in the Riigikogu a year ago. We had many debates about this, both in the National Defence Committee and in this very Chamber. The justifications were probably the same as they are going to be today. What are these operations that can be organised by the United Nations, NATO, the European Union or almost anyone? An ally is such a broad concept. Do we have an operation like this on the horizon? What's the reason why we can't come here with this bill when it turns out that we need to be involved in a particular operation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U134	Thank you, good questioner! The answer is not in sight. If we knew this operation by now, we'd be approaching the other way around. This mandate is necessary for preparedness, it is necessary in case there is a real need to react quickly. But I can assure you that it is not a desire to have the opportunity to go past the normal procedure that is foreseen, but rather it is intended for really exceptional cases when a very rapid response is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U135	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U136	Thank you. How fast is it? In one day? Do we have the capacity to send out the amount of soldiers that this mission mandate requires in one or two days? In my understanding, the Riigikogu will be able to deal with this matter in less than a week if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U137	Thank you, good questioner! We simply need to be ready to react to the crisis situation. If we look at who may need to be sent on a mission, we can see that it may be necessary to send staff officers very quickly, on whom these decisions are made very quickly. We need preparedness, we need a mandate so that we can be ready. I wish and ask the Riigikogu to support this!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U138	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U139	Good manager! Good minister! Yeah, there were a lot more questions a year ago, but I didn't get a lot of answers. Now there are questions again, but the answer is, maybe it is necessary and urgent, and up to 220 active troops. Where are these operations still on the horizon? There should still be data on Syria, or some other data, there is no need to keep the same level of preparedness.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U140	Thank you, good questioner! We're asking for mandates for up to 50 active troops. The other thing is that the security situation in the world cannot be described as very calm. These crises may come, and we must be ready for them. We must be prepared to contribute to their resolution with our allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U141	Thank you. However, Mr Minister, there are more questions for you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Speaking of officers, is it not possible to send them on such an urgent mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U143	Thank you. If we can bet so that we do not have to take advantage of this mandate, we will do so. However, in the case of an operation where a mandate is required, it must be used for up to 50 active troops, in particular under the terms of § 34 (4).
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U144	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U145	The question is about this limit. On what basis have such a number of potential missions been fixed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U146	Thank you, good questioner! I guess there's an in-depth analysis ahead of it. You have certainly discussed this in the Committee on National Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U147	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Please, Johannes Kert, member of the National Defence Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before sending it to first reading at its meeting on 16 November, where Chancellor Jonathan Vseviov of the Ministry of Defence and other officials of the Ministry of Defence introduced the draft missions with the involvement of the Defence Forces and also the draft under discussion. On 15 November, a meeting of the National Defence Commission had taken place at the General Defence Forces Headquarters, where the Defence Forces gave an overview of the draft in question. Paragraph 34 (4) of the National Defence Act provides the basis for the draft under discussion, according to which the Riigikogu, by decision, sets a limit for each year the number of active troops that may be involved in a military operation organised for the purpose of maintaining or restoring peace and security, or another international military operation in accordance with the generally recognised principles and standards of international law, under the terms of Chapter VI or VII of the Charter of the United Nations, led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations, is to contribute for the first time. The emphasis is on the first wager here. The continued use of the Defence Forces in the same operation shall be decided in general accordance with paragraph 1 of that section. Parliamentary control and the involvement of the government will be ensured in such a way that the Defence Forces will in future be instructed to take up or terminate their participation in another international military operation, as decided by the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic, taking into account the views of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. The order will be immediately notified to the President of the Republic, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. I would like to remind you here that this wording was laid down in § 34 61 of the National Defence Act on the basis of the proposal of the National Defence Committee when we first dealt with the same-sensory draft decision of the Riigikogu, which is valid until the end of 2016. According to the earlier wording of § 34 of the National Defence Act, the National Defence Commission issued an opinion to the Minister of Defence and the participation of the Defence Forces Unit was decided by the Minister of Defence in coordination with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The draft gives a mandate to use up to 50 active members of the Estonian Defence Forces. The contribution of Estonia and the size of the unit depends on the needs of the specific operation and the possibilities of the state. Estonia's contribution may include staff officers as well as some units, such as the demining team, the infantry group, the special forces, etc. At its meeting on 16 November, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft decision. By the deadline for submitting amendments, we offer 5 December at 10 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U149	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U150	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already pointed out in my question, we had a draft on the same subject here a year ago, and basically the same questions and answers were already examined then, but I repeat once again, which is extremely disturbing to us. The Conservative People's Party has no objection to a whole range of foreign missions, where Estonia has participated, the mandate of which is clear, where we have established tasks and where we fulfil our allied duty. What bothers us is the blancoque. In essence, this decision violates the principle that the issue of the declaration of war and peace lies within Parliament's competence. We give the government, basically the Defense Department, to decide when and what kind of war we're going into. It's not right, you can't do that. Secondly, one year after giving the same mandate, it had to be said that it was not actually used. As has been said a year ago, and as has been said today, there is no specific mission on the horizon, but it is done just in case. In case of war and peace, the Riigikogu gives its decision-making power to the government. That's a lie, too. No crisis will arise that we will discover it overnight. If there is a crisis in which we need to participate, there is no reason why the Riigikogu would not be able to give this mandate even within a few days, if there are compelling arguments. But simply to give the government the power to decide whether we are participating in the war is contrary to the principles of our parliamentary order, and I think it is also contrary to common sense. This reduces our power as a Riigikogu. It is already small, our country is already too inclined towards executive power. So the Conservative People's Party will vote against the draft and we propose that it be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U151	Thank you. Madis Milling, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's kind of weird for a larval opposition partner to be able to opt for, but I'm still gonna do it a little bit. Yeah, I really do agree, good Martin, with you in the sense that it's a "blankoveksel" just in case. On the other hand, if you buy a weapon or a gas cylinder for self-defense, you don't do it because you want to use it. You don't mean that when a thief attacks you, you have time to go to the store and buy a gun for self-defense. Indeed, this mandate has not been used in a year and may God grant that we should never use it. That's the point. If we never have to use this bill of lading, it's gonna be really good. Yes, it is precisely for this reason that we are able to react very, very quickly. I would remind you that some time ago our participation in the mission in Libya was cancelled because this mission ran out before it was decided in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U153	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft 335, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed that the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first reading of the draft 335 at the time of its first contribution to the international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. We are going to vote on this proposal. Yes, Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I don't know if I'm late. I pressed here once. I would like to take a two-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U155	Yeah, I didn't notice you. Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U156	Attention, ladies and gentlemen. The break taken by the Reform Party Group is over and we will proceed with the sitting. I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject draft 335 at first reading of the Riigikogu decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or other international military operation led by that Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. Please take a stand and vote. Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 41 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Thus, the first reading of Bill 335 has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 335 amendments at 10 a.m. on 5 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U157	Ladies and gentlemen, Following is the first reading of the 16th item, the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international military operation Inherent Resolve, submitted by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Minister of Defence Margus Tsahkna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U158	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! The extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in international military operation Inherent Resolve, bill 338, we apply for a mandate to participate in this mission in 2017 with up to ten active troops, as this year. The contribution to the operation is necessary because ISIL's actions threaten global security, our allies and partners in NATO and the European Union, and also us, as has unfortunately been demonstrated by events in Paris, Brussels and Nice. Estonia's participation in the operation began in August 2016, when a six-member training team in the province of Anbar began its service in the Danish contingent. This team is responsible for military training of Iraqi security forces. In addition, since September, a senior officer in Baghdad has served on a multinational team led by the United States to advise Iraqi ministries and security forces. I ask the Riigikogu for a mandate to continue this mission and I ask for this draft to be supported! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U159	Thank you. Minister, there is a question for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U160	Good manager! Good fresh Secretary of Defense! Can you tell me how many Estonian boys there are?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U161	It's up to ten. There are now six of them and one of the senior officers is in Baghdad. But the mandate we want for up to ten, it's enough to bet.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U162	Thank you. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Johannes Kerdi, Member of the National Defence Commission, to present the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. On the basis of the draft, the continuation of the participation of up to ten Estonian Defence Forces in the US-led international military operation against Daesh will be decided by Inherent Resolve. Inherent Resolve, a US-led operation, was launched on 15 June 2014. Estonia will participate in this mission on the basis of the decision of the current Riigikogu as of August 2016 when the six-member training team in the province of Anbar began its service in the composition of the Danish contingent. In addition, as of September 2016, one of the Estonian senior officers in Baghdad will serve in a multinational military-strategic team led by the USA, which advises Iraqi ministries and security forces. However, Estonian Defence Forces do not participate in activities taking place within the framework of Operation Inherent Resolve on the territory of Syria. One of the important tasks of the operation is to train Iraqi security forces. Estonia contributes with up to six infantry instructors in Iraq, where they train Iraqi security forces in cooperation with the defence forces of Denmark, the United States, Latvia and other countries. The elements and staff of the operation shall also be in Bahrain, Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Qatar, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. Given the priority of the fight against Daesh, Estonia is prepared to contribute more to the operation, if necessary and possible, such as with staff officers. The number of additional active troops to be contributed would remain within the limit set out in the draft. Thus, the Estonian Riigikogu participates primarily with infantry instructors and staff officers within the framework of the mandate. Daesh, a terrorist organisation mainly active in Syria and Iraq, represents a serious threat to global security, including a real threat to Europe's internal security. Daesh's activities in Syria and Iraq have a direct impact on the number of people in need of international protection in the region, and thus on the European refugee crisis. Daesh also recruits fighters from Europe who, after fighting and training in the Middle East, may in turn compromise security on the ground when returning. The attacks in Paris and Brussels were carried out on behalf of Daesh and carried out by European terrorists. In the framework of the Daesh Coalition for Iraq, the agreement of Iraq, consisting of two parts, is a legal basis: a letter from the Iraqi Permanent Representative to the United Nations dated 25 June 2014 to the UN Secretary-General and a letter from the Iraqi Ministry of Foreign Affairs dated 20 September 2014 to the President of the Security Council inviting countries to participate in the fight against Daesh. I take this opportunity to specify the author of the bill, or the Government's explanatory statement, where the last page mentions subsection 30 (2) of the National Defence Act at the bottom of the third paragraph. Paragraph 30 (2) is correct. The National Defence Commission visited the General Staff of the Defence Forces on 15 November, where Colonel Herem, the Chief of the General Staff, and other members of the Defence Forces, gave an overview of the Defence Forces units in the mission areas and preparations for the continuation of Inherent Resolve's participation in the operation. On 16 November, Chancellor Jonathan Vseviov of the Ministry of Defence and representatives of the Ministry of Defence presented the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion at the meeting of the National Defence Committee and the drafts of other missions with the participation of the Defence Forces. At its meeting on 16 November, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 23 November (consensually). In addition, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 10 a.m. on 5 December (consensually). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U164	Thank you, dear waitress. You have a question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U165	Good manager! Good waitress! I do not fully understand how these dozen Estonian boys in Iraq are affected by the use of European terrorists in European cities, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. But most of all, I'm interested in your opinion as former commander-in-chief. Are these dozen Estonian boys in the fight against Daesh in Iraq enough or should there be more or less?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U166	Thank you very much for your question. I'm gonna go back a little bit. We have decided that we will focus our mission teams on one area, and we have left our hands on other areas. Just as there are only a few staff officers in Kosovo, we are not going to Iraq with very large forces. Rationality is perhaps here that it is necessary to take the experience that can be taken from it, to keep our flag on the verge of the international coalition and thereby to politically support the major allies involved in the coalition. We should think quite seriously about where it is economically justified to send our soldiers. The military effects of six or seven people are, of course, limited. The presence of our soldiers in Iraq in the anti-Daesh operation should not be taken literally and seek its impact on terrorism in Europe. In itself, Daesh's withdrawal from the territory of Iraq and Syria caused a wave of terrorism in Europe, as well as a wave of refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U167	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 338. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 338 amendments, including 5 December at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U168	Today's 17th item is the first reading of draft 332 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces' presented by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation by Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U169	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! By draft decision of the Riigikogu 332, we ask for a mandate to use the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the composition of the NATO response forces (NRF). In 2017, Estonia wishes to contribute to the NRF with a total of up to 220 active troops: the infantry company, the headquarters and support vessel, the mine defence ship, the special forces and staff officers, including the commander of the NATO mine defence group. Compared to last year, we are asking for 10 more mandates to participate. The need to increase the mandate is due to an increase in the support element of the infantry company. It is very important to participate in the NRF because we are helping to ensure NATO's rapid response capability there. The use of these forces is decided unanimously by the North Atlantic Council, which means that the NRF can only be used with the consent of Estonia. So here we have the power of co-decision. I ask the Riigikogu to support this bill! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U170	Thank you. Minister, there are no questions for you. I would like a presentation by Ants Laaneots, member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U171	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you have read the draft and the explanatory memorandum carefully. You should now have exhaustive answers as to why we need this bill. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 16 November, where the author was represented by Chancellor Jonathan Vseviov of the Ministry of Defence and other officials of the Ministry of Defence. The draft is also related to the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 15 November at the Defence Forces General Headquarters, where the members of the commission received a detailed overview from Colonel Herem, the Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, and other Defence Forces officers of the events and preparations for participating in international missions in the areas of the Estonian Defence Forces' participation in the NATO response forces, or NRF, as set out in the draft decision. I will now give more details on the need for the draft under discussion. Estonia's participation in the NRF is due to Estonia's NATO membership. All NATO Member States contribute to the NRF, except Iceland, which does not have its own defence forces. The NRF's response force is also the most important tool in the rapid launch of NATO collective defence operations, if necessary. Therefore, participation in the NRF is also related to Estonia's security. NATO response teams may be used in a collective defence operation under the NATO Treaty as set out in Chapters VI and VII of the United Nations Charter. At the meeting of NATO Defence Ministers held on 24 June 2015, it was decided to increase NRF personnel to 40000 men. The NRF, in turn, is a "immediate rapid response force" in preparation for a few days, one of the brigade's battle groups, which can be supported by both air and sea components as appropriate. The use of the NRF is decided unanimously by the NATO Council, which means that the use of the NRF can only take place with the consent of Estonia. According to the draft, next year we will be contributing to the NRF with up to 220 active troops, which means infantry companies and their support element, the staff and support vessel, the mine control vessel, the commander of the NATO mine control group, the special forces unit and the staff officers. At the meeting of 16 November, the National Defence Committee decided to invite the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading of the draft under discussion (consensually). In addition, the Commission decided to propose a deadline of 5 December at 10 a.m. (consensually) for the submission of amendments. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U172	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U173	Good manager! Good waitress! My question is specific. Where are those 220 armed commandos with their own technology that can fly out now? Are they in Paldiski or somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U174	Thank you for your question. Have you heard of the Scouts Battalion? Then there shouldn't be a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U175	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U176	Good manager! Good waitress! What do you think of yourself, as one of the strongest players in this field, is there a sufficient number of 220 military personnel or could this number be greater or smaller?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U177	As I said, the NRF is multi-national, because no country on its own can put 40,000 men out right now. This means that we will make a contribution that is unit-specific. We're basically betting with the infantry tactical group. This tactical group includes mechanized companies, the necessary support tools and the logistics element.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U178	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a desire to negotiate? The political groups have no wish to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 332. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 332 amendments on 5 December at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U179	Let's keep going. Today's 18th item is the first reading of the draft 334 of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan. Please report to Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U180	Good manager! In the framework of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term for the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan, we wish to continue to contribute to the training and advisory mission led by NATO in the same amount as in 2016 and to apply for a mandate for six active troops. Estonia will continue to contribute with a four-member demining team in cooperation with the framework country Germany in Northern Afghanistan. This subject has been discussed a great deal. The situation in Afghanistan is not stable and it is necessary that allies, among others, Estonia, contribute to it. I ask the Riigikogu to support this decision! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U181	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U182	Good manager! Good minister! As I understand it, although the decision is on a training and counselling mission, it is four deminers in the Mazar-e Sharif area. Do they deal with demining themselves or train local deminerators?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U183	Thank you. This is a four-member demining team. I'm indebted to the detail that's exactly what they're doing there, but they're doing the work they're doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U184	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U185	Good manager! Good Secretary of Defense! On this night of international relations, maybe you're describing a little military situation in Afghanistan, where we're sending six boys again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U186	Thank you. Our mission is there, we're asking for an extension. I do not think we are going to discuss the situation in Afghanistan for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U187	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Mr. Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission, for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, this is essentially an extension of the decision of the Riigikogu of 9 December last year. The draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion allows up to six active members of the Estonian Defence Forces to continue to contribute to the NATO Training and Counselling Mission Mission (RSM) next year. These are training, counselling and support tasks. I think I answered the questioner now. The Deminator's task is to train Afghan National Security Forces and to carry out security checks on vehicles entering the NATO unit base at their location. Estonia and its team contribute to the North Afghanistan region under the leadership of the framework state Germany. The draft also concerns the 15 November departure session of the National Defence Commission to the Defence Forces' headquarters, which I have already talked about, where the Chief of Staff and other Defence Forces officers gave us an overview of the Defence Forces units in international missions areas, including Afghanistan. At the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 16 November, Chancellor Jonathan Vseviov of the Ministry of Defence and other officials of the Ministry of Defence introduced the draft mission to Afghanistan under discussion and other draft decisions of the Riigikogu, which will give the mandate for the participation of Defence Forces units in international missions for the following year. Estonia has participated in RSM since 2015. Continuation of the mission and support for Afghan security forces will continue to be important. By participating in this NATO mission, Estonia fulfils the allied responsibilities arising from the membership of its alliance. At the meeting of 16 November, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to send the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 23 November (consensually) and the committee rapporteur was appointed here. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided to propose that the Riigikogu terminate the first reading of the draft decision (consensually). The deadline for tabling amendments could be 5 December at 10 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U189	Thank you. Dear waitress, there is a question for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U190	Good manager! Good waitress! Just to educate myself, I'm asking how the number of soldiers we're sending is going to come up. Is this our decision or is it offered to send six people along with NATO? What does it depend on?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U191	To be honest, NATO's opinion is that the more, the better. But we've evaluated our own capabilities. We don't have this one mission, we have many missions, as you can see. We agreed that up to six members of the Defence Forces, although in reality there have been four of our instructors all along.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U192	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 334. I will set the deadline for the submission of 334 amendments on 5 December at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U193	We will proceed with the processing of the items on the agenda. The 19th item is the first reading of draft 331 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon' presented by the Government of the Republic. Please report to Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U194	Good manager! Dear Riigikogu! In 2017, we will apply for a mandate to continue to contribute to the UN peacekeeping mission in UNIFIL with up to 50 active troops, just as we contributed in 2016. The Estonian contingent consists of a mechanized infantry group, logistics and staff officers. The task of the team is observation, patrolling and manning control stations. Estonia contributes to the mission in the composition of the Finnish-Irish Joint Battalion. This is an important mission, as it increases Estonia's visibility in the UN and supports Estonia's efforts to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in 2020 and 2021. Support from the Riigikogu for this mission, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U195	Thank you, Minister. You have a question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U196	Good manager! Good Secretary of Defense! I personally care very much about Lebanon, since my daughter has been living there for years. I wonder if you will extend this topic to see how holding this unit in Lebanon will increase the security of the citizen of the Republic of Estonia, my daughter. Can you explain how stable this security is because of our mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U197	Thank you, good questioner! I've been to Lebanon myself, and I've visited our boys. I can say they're doing a very important job. This is not only a signicant presence, but our boys are also highly valued there. This visibility and the professionalism with which we contribute are very important. When it comes to the situation in Lebanon, it can be said that the presence of the United Nations in this region will certainly help to ensure that there are no conflicts, and thus improve the safety of your daughter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U198	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I ask for a presentation of Madis Milling, member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U199	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Before I go to the Commission's decisions, I can say, to reassure Mr Ernitsa, that in December the National Defence Committee will travel to Lebanon and, after that, I am willing to provide fresh information on the security situation there. But this draft was discussed by the National Defence Committee at its meeting on 16 November before it was presented to the first reading. At this meeting, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Defence, Jonathan Vseviov, and other officials of the Ministry of Defence took part as representatives of the draft. The draft is also related to the 15 November departure session of the National Defence Commission to the Defence Forces' headquarters, where the members of the commission received an overview at the appropriate level from the Chief of Staff, Colonel Herem, and other representatives of the Defence Forces of Estonia of the preparation of the Estonian Defence Forces unit in the international missions areas with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces, in order to participate in the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon. According to the draft, a unit of up to 50 active members of the Estonian Defence Forces will continue on the UNIFIL mission, the leading state of which is Ireland, in the composition of the Finnish-Irish battalion. The majority of Estonia's contingent is made up of a mechanized infantry team, along with a logistics element and staff officers, whose tasks include prevention, observation, patrolling, manning control posts and ensuring the security of UNTSO observation mission in the same area. This is the so-called United Nations Blue Helmet Mission. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in the crisis area. We recall that the Estonian Defence Forces also participated in this mission in 1996 and 1997, but then with a significantly larger unit of company size. Now also procedural decisions. At its meeting on 16 November, the National Defence Committee decided to invite the Board of the Riigikogu to put the draft under discussion on the agenda for the first reading of the session of the Riigikogu on 23 November and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading (consensually). The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. On the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be 5 December at 10 a.m. (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U200	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Glad to hear you're going to Lebanon in December, maybe you'll be in touch with my daughter. I think he is one of the few Estonian citizens in Lebanon. Indeed, there is a great deal of concern in this unstable country, especially because of its southern neighbour. We are talking about general missions now, but in fact there are also Estonian citizens in all these countries, who care very much about all this. Our contribution is crucial to them. We are almost indifferent to this, simply solidarity with NATO and other countries, but there is also a personal background in many of these regions and missions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U202	I understand that was a comment. I'll answer with a comment. It certainly doesn't matter to us, at least not to me. Yes, indeed, the conflicts that take place somewhere very far away may be distant for us if we live here, but participating in the peace-building mission in conflict areas is of direct importance to Estonia's security. I can give you a concrete example. Thanks to the fact that our Defence Forces participated in a French-led peace-building operation in the Central African Republic, French tanks and battle vehicles will soon arrive in Estonia as part of the NATO battalion's battle group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U203	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It is undoubtedly important to participate in this mission, but there is such a sentence in the explanatory memorandum: 'This approach is in line with Estonia's foreign and security policy decision to increase Estonia's visibility in the UN and to obtain a seat as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the period from 2020 to 2021. The question arises as to whether this objective has increased this mission. My understanding is that we are doing our international duty, not campaigning. To what extent was this entry to the UN Security Council at issue in the Commission during the debate on the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U205	It was not specifically about getting into the UN Security Council or not getting into it in the Commission, but I can say as a comment so much that every military operation has its main task and its accompanying tasks, as is the case with this mission. The work for permanent membership of the UN Security Council is not only the task of the Defence Forces on our mission, but also the task of all Estonian politicians. The fact that participation in the mission may help to influence any decision-making process is perhaps a part of the mission. The Estonian Defence Forces certainly do not go anywhere to do any promotional work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U206	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U207	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, You mentioned that the National Defence Commission will be going to Lebanon soon. But did the Commission also mention the situation in Lebanon today? Is it really bad, or is it going back to normal, or is it that we don't know until you and your committee have been there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U208	If you are familiar with Lebanon's history, you will certainly know that the situation today is excellently better than, for example, in the late 1970s or the 1980s. Estonian Defence Forces in Lebanon do not participate in direct combat activities; they have not had direct combat contacts. The purpose of UN peacekeeping missions, or blue helmet missions, is to be visible and to prevent conflicts in crisis areas. Yes, there are some groups there, many of them are not political, but criminal, but in an area where there are UN peacekeepers, it is, above all, the principle of visibility and deterrence that is relatively peaceful.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U209	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is of a slightly more informative nature. Our Defence Forces participate in a wide range of missions taking place in different climates, cultures and political situations around the world. How does this affect the professionalism of the Defence Forces? I assume it's working well, but as an expert, can you make some kind of assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U211	In terms of time savings, I could say that the Commission did not address this issue. But I'm trying to give you a quick answer. Of course, any mission is only in the best interest; it primarily produces experience. The soldier who went on the mission is a potentially good instructor on his way back to Estonia, who can begin training conscripts. Yes, unfortunately, most missions have been in warm climate zones, under Arctic conditions we have had no missions, no winter missions at all. But the answer is that every soldier on a mission is many times more experienced than a soldier not on a mission. I'm not talking about the ease of shooting, I'm talking about things like combat stress, how to handle it and all that. You may be trained as much as you want, but only in battle will you really know what this real battle is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U212	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U213	Hi! I wanted to ask you what Oudekki and I discussed. Academic people and professors use a concept such as psychological wear. I mean, there's a stage when the eye doesn't shine and the students get on their nerves. It'll pass, but in the meantime, it's time. Now I have the question: can our defence desire, defense ability, etc., somehow be psychologically blunted in the sense that this primary sense of danger gets dim or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U214	Thank you, good penguin. I can assure you with absolute conviction that we will certainly not have such rapture or psychological blunting. This will be taken care of by our good Eastern neighbor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U215	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 331. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 10 a.m. on 5 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U216	Today's 20th item is the first reading of draft 336 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' presented by the Government of the Republic. Please report to Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U217	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! By decision of the Riigikogu 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State on a post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria', we would like a mandate to continue the mission with up to six active troops in 2017, just as it was in 2016. Estonia will contribute to this mission with military observers and the head of the observatory. I ask for the support of the Riigikogu! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U218	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U219	Good manager! Good Secretary of Defense! What bothers me a bit is that we put a conveyor here and they don't want to discuss any substantive issues at all. My specific question right now is that. These observers, these six boys, are from 11 NATO Member States. However, there are many more Member States in NATO. Who, then, is not participating in this mission from NATO Member States, also from our neighbours?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U220	Thank you. This is one of the United Nations military observation missions that was established as early as 1948 by the UN Security Council Resolution. This is an unarmed mission, whose mission is to monitor compliance with peace and arms agreements in the Middle East. As a fresh Minister of Defence, I can't tell you by heart exactly which countries will contribute. It is an important mission; it is an observation mission whose task is precisely to monitor compliance with peace and arms agreements, that is to say, this observatory and the collection of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U221	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U222	Good manager! Good Secretary of Defense! Yeah, I didn't get an answer. Anyone can read down, but I would still expect more competence to be able to get concrete answers. After all, this evening provides an opportunity to talk about Estonia's specific military contribution and its backgrounds completely sincerely, there is no need to slip over the entire long list.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U223	Thank you, good questioner! Today's debate means applying for a mandate for specific missions. These issues have been discussed very thoroughly in the Committee on National Defence. The next waitress can give an overview of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U224	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U225	I understand Peeter very well. From these answers, there is some indifference and formalism. I mean, for the argument's sake, by the way, let's say this: what happens when we say no, this mandate this government can't?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U226	If that was a question, then I would say that we would clearly reduce our contribution to the work of our allies. I think it would damage our credibility more broadly. But this decision is within the competence of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U227	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask for a presentation of Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U228	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, there's a little mistake to make. Mr Ernitsa's previous question was a minor but fundamental and very important mistake. This is not a NATO mission, it is a UN mission. However, the draft extends until the end of next year the deadline for the use of six active troops on UN-led peacekeeping missions in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. The military observation mission mentioned in the draft is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948. Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in this mission as observers and staff officers since 1997. This is a purely UN Blue helmet observation mission. Of course, as a member of the UN, Estonia contributes to peace and stability in crisis regions. Now I am talking about procedural decisions. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 16 November. At this meeting, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Defence, Jonathan Vseviov, and other officials of the Ministry of Defence took part as representatives of the draft. At the meeting of 16 November, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading on 23 November and to propose that the Riigikogu terminate the first reading (consensually). The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. On the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be 5 December at 10 a.m. (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U229	Thank you, dear waitress. But member of the Riigikogu Aivar Kokk wishes to ask you a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U230	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm just asking to be educated. We have just finished the first reading of draft decision 331 on the peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, and now we are dealing with the next draft on the peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. What is the difference between a peacekeeping and peacekeeping mission? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U231	This is two completely different missions. When we spoke on the previous draft about a group-sized unit, together with a support element that deals with patrolling and observing and preventing firefights, and could also be involved in the battle ourselves, we are only talking about the UN observation mission. They are military observers who observe, but do not intervene in the conflict or engage in the separation of hostiles. This is a pure observation mission. That's the main difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U232	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U233	I wasn't in the Soviet army very long, but there were guys who'd been watching. Which mission is this? They described it as sitting in a trench, a helmet on their head, a pen in their right hand, and a paper in their left hand, and marked where it exploded. Which mission is this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U234	Good penguin! If you sit in the trenches and write down where it exploded, it's called tactical combat intelligence. But if you've seen a documentary about the UN peacekeepers, you may have noticed such white observation towers or bushes in crisis areas because you've been in the army, then I can use the word "U." Then they sit there with their blue helmets on their heads and their blue vests on their backs, looking at binoculars in one direction and another. If they notice any suspicious activity, they'll report it, etc. Maybe it's a pure observation mission. Firearms are only allowed to be used for immediate self-defense by officers and subordinate officers on an observation mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U235	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U236	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm asking for a little education. We're talking about post-conflict peacekeeping, the bill contains these words. There is really no post-conflict peace in Syria, so I do not think that they are very much looking at Syria. Perhaps the bill simply contains a list of places where they could be. But I believe that they are not in Syria, because there is no conflict everywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U237	Yes, indeed. Just a linguistic interpretation is such that post-conflict etc. The security situation in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria is indescribably different. It would be very cumbersome if a sentence or term was written in advance by each country that would describe precisely the security situation of that country and the nature of the mission. Yeah, that's the common denominator. Still, these missions in the countries that are on this list, despite their different security situations, are illustrated by one word, an observation mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U238	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 336. I will set the deadline for the submission of 336 amendments at 10 a.m. on 5 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U239	Let's keep going. Today's 21st item is the first reading of the Riigikogu decision 'Extending the term of use of the Defence Forces and increasing the number of active troops in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia'. Please report to Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U240	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! Another draft decision is entitled "Extending the term of use of the Defence Forces and increasing the number of active troops in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia'. The task of this mission is to restrict the freedom of movement of human smugglers operating off the Libyan coast and to make efforts to identify, seize and destroy the bases and other assets used for smuggling persons or trafficking in human beings. This operation was approved by the Foreign Ministers and Defence Ministers of the European Union on 18 May 2015. By participating in this mission, we will also contribute to the security of the countries of the southern European Union. In 2017, we wish to continue to contribute to this mission and ask for a mandate for up to six active troops instead of two former active troops. The unstable situation in the Mediterranean and its southern shores has shaped Libya into an important corridor of illegal migration towards Europe. The fact is also that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey has increased the pressure to increase migration from Libya. The task of this particular operation has become even more important in order to prevent illegal trafficking in human beings. That's all for me. I would like you to decide that you will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U241	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U242	Good manager! Good minister! Now, let's get to a really hot topic. Last year your predecessor, Minister Hanso, was in charge here. I asked him whether it was embarrassing for an officer to apply for a mandate when the arrival of refugees from Libya has begun, that perhaps the mandate should be increased ten times or one more. Now I see that the mandate has been increased by four people. But why by four people, while at the same time, because of the agreement with Turkey and the restrictions on the movement of migrants there, the need is greater? Where did this +4 come from now, why not +6 or +14?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U243	Thank you. This is the point of agreement and analysis, but the important message is that we are increasing our presence there and actively looking for opportunities, for example, for cooperation with Spain. That's what we do together. It is true that the situation there has excited us all in Europe. This is precisely about illegal immigration and, above all, about human trafficking. An analysis has been carried out, and indeed there is also a proposal to contribute more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U244	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I don't know how much you've been able to bring yourself up to speed on all the issues related to these missions. But I'm glad we're increasing our participation on this mission. Watching the central Mediterranean is very important. How effective can this mission be considered at all by deciding on the basis of what it has done so far? Do we have any evidence that other countries of the European Union are contributing to increasing their participation? What has the dynamics of this mission ever been?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U246	Thank you. The truth is that I have received a mandate from you to fill the respectable office of the Minister of Defence. What is important is that we make these decisions and send a clear message to our allies that we will continue to participate in the missions. Experts, politicians and diplomats have done a very good job. Indeed, with this particular mission, it is possible that we are working with Spain, and precisely in order to monitor this situation more closely. The European Union's Treaty with Turkey, the biggest flow of illegal immigration came from Turkey last year, has resulted in a slight slowdown in immigration from that country. But the pressure has gone elsewhere. Based on the information I have received in this very short time, I can say that our people's work is appreciated. It is important to expand this activity there and to combat human smugglers by real steps, i.e. identifying, destroying and occupying these foundations. This job is real.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U247	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U248	Thank you. Good waitress! The very comprehensive report by the UK House of Lords in May this year on this mission found that, although the mission has been successful in saving lives, the achievements in combating human trafficking and controlling migration flows have been very small, if not non-existent. Has Estonia thought that we could use our few resources somewhat better to combat the migration crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U249	Thank you. I cannot comment on the report of the House of Lords on the run, but I want to say that these decisions have been taken in cooperation with our allies and on the basis of analyses. What's very important to us is that we bet on it. We once had an active force there, and now we're asking for a mandate for up to six active troops. If we didn't do anything there, the situation would probably be quite different, and I think there would be a different debate in this Chamber too. It's important to bet on it all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U250	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U251	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question has already been asked, but I will continue on the same subject as the questioner. This military mission was designed to monitor and then prevent human trafficking, but the current situation is different. EUNAVFOR Med has become one of the tools of human smugglers' transport and logistics. From the coast of Libya, or, let's say, rubber boats are occupied by migrants who are transported to Europe by tens of thousands. As the new Minister of Defence, do you intend to publish, or are you prepared to exert pressure by means of your position, so that this mission still serves its original purpose, that is to prevent human trafficking and these migratory flows?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U252	Thank you. As Minister for Social Protection, whose duties I carried out for a little more than a year, I myself visited the small Greek islands that are immediately in response to Turkey and in Lebanon to see this situation with my own eyes. This is certainly a very important problem that Europe must monitor and also resolve. The solution is certainly not one-sided. These measures and operations will be agreed, and Estonia will contribute to them as one Member State. For me, as Minister of Defence, this is certainly one of the issues to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U253	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U254	Good manager! Good Secretary of Defense! The purpose of this mission is to patrol and reconnaissance and to search and destroy the vessels coming from Libya in the Mediterranean. UN Security Council Resolution 2240 says that different behaviour can now be done with flag states. Before the prior authorisation of the flag State was needed, it was only then that it was possible to seize or destroy the vessel, but now it has been said that it is enough that the operating state, such as Estonia, has tried to obtain the flag State's consent in good faith. Explain to us in the language of the country what it means to have tried, in good faith, to obtain the consent of the flag State before the pirate ship is seized or destroyed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U255	Thank you, good questioner! I was a little unclear about the content of the question, and I am not going along with this analysis right now. I'm sure I'm willing to pass on that analysis to you later.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U256	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U257	Thank you. To comment on the previous response, I would add that this is not the only mission in which Estonia contributes to the Mediterranean. In the Ministry of the Interior, for example, we also have people who contribute to the security of the Mediterranean. In this regard, I have a specific question about this mission. If it is indeed intended to reduce trafficking in human beings, this mission should also provide information on the functioning of human trafficking networks. How effective has this mission been so far? How many networks do we now know how to operate and what can we turn off after Sophia's launch?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U258	Thank you. After all, this information is available to us, as are all those involved in the mission. I'm sure it's very important. I just want to stress that Estonia participates there with a staff officer; Estonia does not have its own ship there. We are in cooperation with others there, and that is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U259	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U260	I'd be happy to help Peeter out a little bit. Just taking it is that there's a ship with a striped flag, and there's another ship with a plaid flag. Now it's like we're on a ship with a striped flag and we're going to take men off a plaid flag. This is how you know very well that there is an International Convention on the Law of the Sea and so on, that in five minutes there will be a military conflict. Have we taken this moment of flags and the International Convention on the Law of the Sea into account here? It's kind of a risky situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U261	Thank you, Dr. Gräzin. Surely there is no way I can be an equal partner against you as an extremely large specialist in international law. So let's play through these striped and plaid flags, but the situation is, this isn't a simple thing. Like you said, it's risky business, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U262	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like a presentation by Oudekki Loone, member of the National Defence Commission of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U263	Dear listeners, ladies and gentlemen, This draft, as you have just heard, allows Estonia to continue to contribute to the EUNAVFOR Med military mission Sophia, which aims to prevent trafficking in human beings in the central Mediterranean (between Italy and Malta's territorial sea and Libya). To date, 96 traffickers have been reportedly captured in 200 operations, neutralised 337 vessels and saved over 29300 lives. On 15 November, the National Defence Committee held a meeting at the General Staff of the Defence Forces, where the Commission received an overview from Colonel Martin Herem, the Chief of General Staff, and other active troops of the relevant level of the international missions conducted by the Estonian Defence Forces and the readiness of the Defence Forces to continue the European Union military mission under discussion. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft with Chancellor Jonathan Vseviov of the Ministry of Defence and other officials of the Ministry at its meeting on 16 November and decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be placed on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 23 November (consensually). The rapporteur for the draft was appointed here. The National Defence Committee also decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft (consensually). In addition, the Committee on National Defence decided to propose (reconsensually) a deadline of 5 December at 10 a.m. for amendments to the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U264	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U265	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I see that the explanatory memorandum to this draft wisely indicates that, after the military operation, the European Union will cooperate with the African Union and regional organisations to combat illegal immigration. Can you be a little more specific about cooperation with the African Union, how effective it is and what tangible results this cooperation has produced?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U266	Thank you. The National Defence Committee did not discuss this issue at its hearing. I'm just adding my understanding here. Cooperation with the African Union takes place mainly on the African continent. Cooperation will take place on how to contain migratory flows through transit countries and to what extent it will be possible to send people back from the borders of transit countries. EUCAP shall be the most closely associated with Niger. This country is currently undergoing very large immigration flows. To a certain extent, our next item, or missions in Mali, is also involved. The African Union is quite an effective partner with regard to cooperation on how it is possible to send people back from the borders of transit countries. Discussions with the people involved in these missions have given the impression that he is a better partner than the countries alone. But, of course, it's a troubled thing. As we all know, controlling migration flows is not as effective as the European Union wants.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U267	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U268	Good manager! Good waitress! Since this draft is about extending the mission, was there any further discussion in the Commission on how human trafficking has so far been tackled? What measures have been positive, what are not and what can be done better for the extended mission? Was there an analysis? For example, in Australia, this system is very well set up; there are no problems such as those we have here in Europe today. Was there a debate on these issues as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U269	Thank you. We did not discuss these issues at the meeting on 16 November, but this is a very good proposal. We will certainly be working on this in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U270	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U271	I have a proposition. When you said that all the decisions were taken by consensus in the Commission, I understood that most of these issues were still discussed in the Commission. But earlier, you asked the minister a number of questions. If the rapporteur has lost some confusion, then the Commission should certainly examine the matter before the second reading and ask that we all have our own clarity. Trafficking in human beings, and how to put a stop to it and prevent it more, still affects all people, all of Europe. Maybe we should send more of our soldiers there. It would certainly be cheaper for our country to send soldiers there than to receive refugees here, retrain them and do all that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U272	Thank you, good questioner! Surely this is also one of the reasons why we believe that this bill should be discussed further. Then we can think about and study these serious issues between reading and reading. It must certainly be noted that one of the very important ways of restricting the activities of traffickers is not so much to send soldiers to the region as to clean up the economic space. This mission alone can do very little, although he can certainly do something. But it really matters how effective this activity is and whether it has not caused problems rather. For example, the same 337 destroyed bases have created a situation where human traffickers have started using rubber pallets instead of underwood, which put people at greater risk. I am sure that these questions will come back to the Commission. Thank you very much for these suggestions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U273	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 337. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 337 amendments at 10 a.m. on 5 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U274	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. Today's 22nd item is the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and in the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali at its first reading. For a presentation, please, Minister of Defence Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U275	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! This is today's last draft decision, No 339, and with it we are asking for a mandate to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali. In 2017, we wish to continue to contribute to the European Union Training Mission with up to ten active troops on the UN Peacebuilding Mission MINUSMA with EUTM Mali and up to ten active troops, just as in 2016. In 2017, we want to contribute to the European Union Training Mission with a training instructor responsible for providing military training to the Malian units and with staff officers. Minusma's mission will be contributed by Estonia next year with two staff officers and an observation and advisory team. I'm asking for your decision! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U276	Thank you, Minister. But there are questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U277	Good manager! Good Secretary of Defense! Roiss on the cake, on the long line of foreign missions, it's now hot Africa. While we dealt with NATO and UN missions here before, the European Union's mission is now, most importantly, and this time it is in Africa. What do you think of the idea that has germinated in many parts, namely the creation of an army of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U278	Thank you, good questioner! We are currently working on this specific draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U279	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U280	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Soon two years have passed since I, among other things, have been able to get an overview of the mission in Mali in the National Defence Committee. I have to say that the situation has not changed in that time. The question now is whether it makes sense to keep our instructors there longer because it seems that there is no impact on the situation that they are staying there, or whether their presence needs to be increased so that the situation changes and we can train more soldiers from the government forces. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U281	Thank you. My opinion is that it is very important that we participate there, that we are actually present and contribute to these missions, and precisely both the European Union mission and the United Nations peace-building mission. There are other regions where it seems that the small contribution that Estonia can make is of no direct benefit. But in any case, the benefits are that we show our contribution, and if necessary, we will be helped. Of course, the situation in Mali is very difficult and it has not been resolved. This means that the missions must continue and be more effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U282	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U283	Good manager! Good Secretary of Defense! Let's get concrete. Where will the eight Estonian officers participating in the observation mission be located in Mali?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U284	Thank you. Let me remind you that we are seeking the participation of up to ten active troops in the European Union training mission and of up to ten active troops in the United Nations peace-building mission, so we are talking about 20 active troops in total, not seven or eight.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U285	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like a presentation by Oudekki Loone, member of the National Defence Commission of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U286	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As you have heard, according to the first paragraph of the draft, the time limit for the use of up to 10 active members of the Estonian Defence Forces on the European Union Training Mission in Mali is extended. Estonia contributes to this with Defence Forces instructors whose task is to provide military training to the Malian units. Staff officers involved in the planning and consultation process for the training of Malian units will also be involved. As a Member State of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the European Union's common security and defence policy. Mali's mission is one of the most important missions of the European Union. There are currently 23 EU Member States with around 200 instructors, leading countries in France, the Czech Republic and Spain. According to point 2 of the draft, the participation of up to ten active members of the Estonian Defence Forces in the UN Peace Mission MINUSMA (United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in Mali) in Mali is extended. Next year, Estonia will contribute to MINUSMA with two staff officers and an observation and advisory team serving in the Netherlands-led multi-country target units of MINUSMA. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in the crisis area. The National Defence Committee also discussed this issue to a certain extent at the December 15th session of the Defence Forces General Headquarters, where the Commission received an overview from Colonel Martin Herem, the Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, and other active troops of the relevant level of events in international missions with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces, including the situation in Mali. This draft was discussed by the National Defence Committee with Chancellor Jonathan Vseviov of the Ministry of Defence and other officials of the Ministry at his meeting on 16 November and decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be placed on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 23 November for the first reading (consensually). The rapporteur for the draft was appointed here. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. In addition, the Committee on National Defence decided to propose a deadline of 5 December at 10 a.m. (consensually) for the submission of draft amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U287	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U288	Good Oudekki! In fact, I was hoping for such an answer from the Secretary of Defense: 'My colleagues, I have been in office for five hours, don't falter me! I'm gonna make everything clear to myself, and I'm gonna be a very good defense minister. " And we would have all forgiven. However, we were able to hear technical, formal, not too cordial, pulpit, meaning not answers. I thought it was a little cheeky. But you're good and great, and I'm asking you humanely. Rumor has it that the Malian soldiers we train there tend to spread out in general. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U289	Thank you. This has not been discussed by the National Defence Committee. But before we come back to the hall with this bill, we'll look into it. I can personally say that these problems are present in all our training missions, including all the other European Union training missions. There are very few good solutions. The main solution is that there should be more money. But Estonia can contribute very little on its own here. In the European Union, we can discuss whether these missions need more funding and whether it will ultimately be effective. But specifically for Mali, we will certainly find more information before we read the next one.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U290	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U291	Good manager! Good waitress! We know that Mali is in West Africa and around it there are seven countries with which it has a land border, plus the Sahara Desert. Can you explain a little bit to us as ignorant people, what's the problem there? Is this a domestic problem, or is there a problem with some of the seven countries around him? Why do our soldiers have to teach local soldiers there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U292	The objective of this mission is indeed to teach local soldiers in particular to resolve the local conflict and to restore the military capability of the Malian Armed Forces to fight terrorism. The biggest problem in Mali is terrorist groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U293	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U294	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I know that this has not been the subject of discussion in the Committee on National Defence, but I am still asking. Will the number of such missions in the world increase in the future and we have a longer line here, or is there any hope that this number will somehow stabilise and decrease and the world will be calmer? If you want to answer, answer me if you don't want to answer, tell me it wasn't on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U295	Thank you. This certainly was not on the agenda, but we arrive at some point in the debate at almost every session of the Committee on National Defence to the conclusion that the aim of all of us is for weapons to remain increasingly silent in the world. Above all, we care about Europe, which is our home, but we also care about other parts of the world. The European Union is, in fact, the greatest peacemaker in the world. Having been on a number of European Union missions myself, I can say that they have some sort of effect, that the flag of the European Union at school or in a small mountain village represents, in many ways, the wish of the people that we will then talk through. I agree with the opinion previously expressed in this Chamber that these missions should be looked at one by one. There are missions that are less effective, and there are missions that are more effective. There are missions that do good, but not the good for which they are created. Many missions save people, some of them increase corruption, unfortunately, it is also right. However, when I look at the overall impact of the European Union, I see that it has a strong result that people are beginning to think about how to achieve a situation where power is not only handed over with weapons. My own best experience has been in Liberia, where I was an observer of the European Union. In these small mountain villages, we joked that if the European Union had said that everyone had to stand on their heads every morning for ten minutes to ensure peace, then there would have been standing there too. This faith that we can build can bring results if we really want it and think through it that in ten years' time we will have fewer missions. I recommend that everyone evaluate each mission in this light and ask whether, apart from all the problems, there is hope that there will be a little more peace. If there is hope that there will be, I think this mission could be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U296	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U297	Good manager! Good waitress! There was one question left in the air before, not you. But we do know that Mali has about 14.5 million inhabitants. Our soldiers train, as I understand it, local soldiers. Are they in the capital Bamako or somewhere further away? Are they in a training center or in different places throughout the territory of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U298	Thank you. Mission headquarters are really close to Bamako. Our staff officers are located mostly at headquarters. But we really didn't discuss how many of our trainers we're sending out along Mali. That's definitely what we're gonna find out before we read the second one, and then we're gonna answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U299	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U300	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, I would very much like to acknowledge your competence and expertise in answering questions and your ability to take advantage of the Commission's presentation. I am not sure whether this has been the issue, or whether it has been the case with the previous questions, but I am still asking whether the Commission has even discussed the medical condition of our soldiers or their illness. I am thinking not only of injuries in battles, but precisely of the effects of a different climate and different circumstances. Has this been discussed in the National Defence Committee? This question arose after NATO handed over a rehabilitation facility to a medical institution. There was a man who said that if there had been this instrument at the time of his recovery, his recovery would not have lasted two years, but it would have gone much faster. Has this issue of health status been discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U301	Thank you. We have discussed this, although we did not touch on it when discussing this draft. In general, the National Defence Committee has discussed how rehabilitation takes place in Estonia. We've also been to a rehabilitation clinic in Magdalene, which is very good. Many of our NATO allies have also been there and have been enthusiastic about our development. I think we should definitely continue in the same direction. From time to time, we have touched on this issue when discussing foreign missions. I think this is one of the topics we will continue to study. It involves our visits. As mentioned earlier, a visit to Lebanon is also taking place so that Members of Parliament can have primary information on how our people actually manage there. We want to hear from them how they manage, and we want to see what conditions they live in and how they spend their day. This is one of the reasons why we are planning such external visits and why we are once again publishing a personal opinion on the situation of our people on this mission in Mali.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U302	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U303	I don't have a question, I rather have a line to Oudekki Loone. The general staff gave a very accurate overview of the activities of Estonian soldiers in Mali and the background there, except that you were not there at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-23_U304	Thank you. No more questions, dear waitress, for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 339. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 339 amendments at 10 a.m. on 5 December. Ladies and gentlemen, one last message to you: today's sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 7:18 p.m.
