ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Good guests! We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 11th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U2	Good morning, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of quite a number of members of the Centre Party Group, I have the honour to address an inquiry to the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. On 3 June 2010, the Law amending the Law on district heating and social welfare was adopted, which introduced that the heat supply needed to heat the dwelling may be interrupted from 1 October to 30 April only after 90 days have elapsed since the notification of the debt sent by the heat company and the consumer has not removed the heat supply from the ground during that period. However, the amendment has not served its purpose. This led to a situation in Kohtla-Järve, which we discussed just this week in connection with a draft law. On 25 February this year, it was decided at the government meeting that the Minister of Business would set up a working group to analyse the possibilities of dealing with the debts of housing cooperatives and local authorities, which would propose changes to address the problem. In this regard, we have the following questions for the Minister. Has the decision taken at the government meeting been implemented and the working group been set up? Who are part of the working group on housing associations' debts and how many times has the working group already met? When are the Group's proposals for resolving problems to be expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! Yesterday we managed to adopt a law amending the Home and Working Procedures Act, which required 51 votes to be adopted. The President of the Riigikogu was very concerned about whether these votes would come together. In any case, the Free Party gave its votes in order to ensure that the minutes of the Riigikogu committees' meetings are of the same level as they were until 2004 and that there are no-something-say-camouflage papers that no one understands. What has happened over the years is certainly regrettable. It is also regrettable that the opposition's proposals for the recordings of sittings, as well as other supporting materials, were not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U5	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good colleagues, there will be a four-day session of the Riigikogu in the Chamber, at the 11th working week of the third session. I ask you to honor the waitress and those who wish to listen! Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U6	Thank you. We want the activities of the Riigikogu to be really marked and the traces of everything: who speaks what when he speaks with a loud voice and who talks between them. We are thinking, in particular, of the meetings of the committees. We do not necessarily make it a duty to record them, as another group has taken the initiative, but if the recording has been made, we believe that it should be preserved. Our draft stipulates that the draft documents, the tools used for drawing up them and the materials prepared for discussion and consultation are kept on paper or on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U7	I'm asking for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Central Party and the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I have to hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which proposes to the Government of the Republic. 30 members of the Riigikogu made an analogous proposal last week, but now it is presented in a more effective version. This is about language learning. Very many people like to stress that everyone in Estonia should be able to speak in Estonian, but there are few effective steps taken to achieve this. We therefore propose to the Government of the Republic that an in-depth analysis of the current language learning system be made available to all people and that language learning programmes be made available online and on television. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U9	Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Heili Tõnisson, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching a draft law amending the Penal Code (transposition of the Market Abuse Directive). Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U11	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's do the presence check. 77 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U12	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item on the agenda is the debate on the key national issue of the reform of governance. Allow me, dear colleagues, before we go to the debate, to briefly introduce to you the procedure for this discussion, which follows from § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. Firstly, there is a presentation by Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which will last up to 10 minutes, and then questions and answers, which will also last up to 10 minutes. After that, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas's presentation, which lasts up to 20 minutes, and questions and answers, which also last up to 20 minutes. After the Prime Minister's presentation, the attorney-at-law Jüri Raidla's report will last up to 20 minutes, then there will be questions and answers that will also last up to 20 minutes. Then the Riigikogu is a presentation by Tanel Talve, Chairman of the State Reform Support Group, which lasts up to 10 minutes, and questions and answers, which also last up to 10 minutes. After the presentations, negotiations will, of course, be opened if they so wish, which we certainly look forward to. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed that representatives of the political groups first appear. After that, other members of the Riigikogu will be given the floor. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. The commission has also proposed that each member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to all rapporteurs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed an extension of today's sitting. We'll come back to that when we need to. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Guests! I am pleased to present here today at the debate on the reform of state governance and to introduce it. A quarter of a century has passed since the restoration of Estonia's independence, and in that time we have been able to build a modern democratic society. Estonia is part of the United Nations, the Council of Europe, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, the European Union and dozens of other important international organisations. Since 2010, we are also part of the OECD of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which brings together developed industrialised countries. Despite Estonia's small size, we are considered a progressive and reliable partner. We have no reason to be ashamed of the development and achievements of our country, but we can be proud of them. The Estonian system of government was broadly established by the constitution adopted in 1992 as early as the referendum. An important part of the functioning of the executive power is governed by the Act of the Government of the Republic, which has so far come into force at the beginning of 1996. Although both the Constitution and the Government's law have been amended several times, the organisation of state administration has so far remained quite stable. Life is changing and the environment of government is changing. Too much complacency is not a virtue. I think it would make sense to review how our country works and to determine what works well and what would be useful to change or improve. Voltaire is given the saying 'A good enemy is the best', i.e. good solutions may not be enough if there is even better. Now, in the 25th year of Estonia's independence, it is time to take a fresh look at the important aspects of the organisation of government. In November 2014, President Toomas Hendrik Ilves announced the current elections of the XIII Riigikogu: 'I am convinced that the skeleton and the muscles of the Estonian state need to be strengthened and that we need a smarter and more sensible way of holding the state. [---] Selmet spends more and more time and money every year on seeming development, control, planning and organization, wouldn't it be necessary to have better wages, better working conditions, more appreciation for policemen, rescuers, teachers, doctors and nurses? It is for those of the professions in whose form and by whose means our people come into contact with their own country. The reform of state and local government is therefore indispensable. Not because something has been done wrong in the past. The situation in Estonia has fundamentally changed. We have built our big structures, starting with health care and ending with the legal system. At the same time, the population is shrinking and the expectation of an improvement in the condition of life is growing. The resource must therefore be directed to where it is most needed. ' In the 2013 OECD Review Government at a Glance, Estonia has said that although many policy areas work well in large part, Estonian public administration is characterised by fragmentation and rigidity. The quality and availability of public services are uneven and it is difficult for the country to meet the growing expectations of the population. Citizens and businesses feel alienated from the country and from decision-making. The topic paper "Trustable, capable and capable state" published by the Praxis Centre for Policy Studies at the beginning of last year has expressed the opinion that the need for reform of state governance in Estonia comes primarily from four main sources. First of all, Estonia is experiencing demographic contractions and the development rates of its regions vary considerably. Secondly, the growth in the mobility of the population contributes to the development and urban sprawl of urban regions. Thirdly, globalisation, the economic crisis and the changed security situation have significantly changed the environment of government. Fourthly, despite the change in the state administration environment, Estonia's public administration system has not changed significantly in recent years. The above thoughts could be summed up in such a way that, although the Estonian state is generally functioning well, the residents expect their lives to improve in the future, the number of services provided by the state to increase, and their quality and availability. People also expect to be more involved in making important decisions about them themselves. Thus, the aim of the reform of state administration in general could be to bring the Estonian system of government into line with changed circumstances, make it more coherent, flexible and efficient. This is certainly not an easy task, because those with whom we compare our progress are the most advanced countries in the world. The current coalition has not sat down. The coalition agreement concluded last year after the elections of the Riigikogu between the Estonian Reform Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Union of Isamaa and Res Publica provides for the implementation of the reform of state governance. In less than a year, a substantially changing draft law on administrative reform of the organisation of local government has been prepared in detail, which passed a first reading in this Chamber last week following a thorough discussion. Next, it is time to look at other important aspects of government. The coalition agreement has focused on reform of local administration in the area of state reform, but it has also addressed strengthening parliamentary and e-democracy, e-state development, preventing the emergence of the digital divide and further developing inclusion, as well as restructuring in the areas of ministries' responsibilities and other important issues of state life. This does not mean that today's debate should be limited to a coalition agreement; rather, it could be wider. The wider debate will create the clearer picture necessary to create the prerequisites for improving Estonia's competitiveness in the coming decades. In order to make a difference, it is necessary to define the limits that must inevitably be taken into account in the reform. Estonia's most serious problems relate to the decline of its population. While a few years ago there were about 800000 people of working age in Estonia, in just over a few decades this figure will be about one fifth smaller. By the same time, the number of people of retirement age will increase by about one tenth. Certainly none of them wants to live worse than the current pensioners or receive poorer welfare and health care services. Estonian society is under strong pressure and government must start to reform according to the circumstances. A few years ago, total government expenditure in the 28 Member States of the European Union averaged 48.5% of GDP, while in Estonia it was only 38.9%. At the same time, the share of government labour in the total working age population in the OECD countries was on average 15.5% in 2011. In Estonia, this figure was 19.4%, or about a quarter of the average. Generally speaking, the costs of Estonia's state administration are controlled and well below the European average, but looking at the share of the government's workforce, it turns out that Estonia is not working very effectively compared to other developed countries. In view of the expected decline in the working age population, efforts should be made to change the situation and, sooner or later, to improve the functioning of the country. At the same time, it is necessary to address the development and diversification of public services by implementing modern information technology opportunities and other development prerequisites. The Praxis Thematic Paper referred to earlier has proposed general objectives for the reform. According to this document, Estonia's government should be capable, capable and reliable. Powerful governance means strong, effective and high-quality governance. Openness to new ideas, fostering innovation and knowledge-based decisions are considered essential. Reliable governance means, in particular, well-functioning representative democracy and inclusive governance. It is desirable to strive for more transparent policy-making and implementation and to bring decision-making to the lowest possible, appropriate level. An efficient administration system involving competent people who are also engaged in the development of innovative public services is considered essential for sound governance. It is recommended that the state ensure that the number of people paid from public budgets follows labour market trends. It is important that the state invests in the development of people employed in the public sector. I support these views and note that the government must have effective tools for policy-making and its effective and swift implementation. To this end, the necessary competence needs to be developed. Cooperation with the private sector needs to be stepped up to improve the quality and availability of public services. Above all, however, it is necessary to agree on which public services, in what extent and at what level of government it is necessary to provide and how the necessary cooperation can work better. Important decisions of the State must be justified and negotiated with the parties. Can I have an extra minute and a half?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U14	An extra minute and a half.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U15	The reform of government also relates to the issue of peripheralisation. In less populated developed countries, regional polarisation, or depopulation in remote areas, and concentration in larger centres is often a problem. Estonia, too, is not a stranger to this issue. As a result of this process, jobs with higher pay will be concentrated in larger centres and the infrastructure of the centres will be subject to additional burdens due to new people. The lack of jobs requiring higher education in rural areas, however, encourages young people to leave it and makes the development prospects of rural regions less favourable. As the working age population declines and the number of people of retirement age increases, previous labour shortages in these regions are often not guaranteed. Depopulation is not conducive to investment in infrastructure and the region's ability to channel its own economy is declining. In order to adapt to changing circumstances and maintain their development prospects, both urban regions and rural areas need restructuring of the local economy and often state support. In order to reduce the population's exit from sparsely populated areas, some countries in northern Europe have tried to maintain a sufficient mass of local businesses and administrative structures in the regions, ensuring the necessary professionalism and administrative capacity. Public infrastructure investments are targeted at the regions. In Denmark, but also in Sweden and Finland, the focus has been on creating innovation and entrepreneurial networks to create a favourable breeding ground for a specialised service economy and a niche small business. To this end, the creation or introduction of new businesses will be encouraged and cooperation between research and educational institutions and companies and executive powers will be promoted. The various policies seek to support the internal development capacity of the regions and to strengthen local authorities. I think it is also necessary to ensure that there are several developing centres in Estonia and that entrepreneurship and economic activity do not become too concentrated around the capital. The state can only create prerequisites for the development of the regions, not to develop them by order. Top-down development cannot be sustainable, as such action may not be based on local development assumptions and the interests of local residents. It is reasonable for the country to support good ideas on the ground with advice and force where private institutions are hesitant. If there are enough educated people and decision-making on the ground, there is hope that good ideas will also be realised. I would like today's debate to be fruitful and idea-rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U16	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear colleague Kalle Laane! Are we really going the right way to discuss state reform if we tolerate and tolerate a drop in our population of nearly 100,000 people? Personally, I believe, and I do think that there are certainly many men and women in this Chamber, as well as people in front of televisions, who think that the aim of state reform should be quite different. It could be that we should focus so that our population does not decrease, but that it stabilises and gradually grows. Should we not still set such a goal rather than fatalistically and existentially tolerate this decline?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U18	Thank you for your question. I'll come back to the beginning. We should be debating here in this Chamber today what is the substance of the concept of state governance, which we see in more detail as the content of this reform. The idea you put forward is an idea. My understanding is that today we are talking about governance, how we can manage the Estonian state better, more efficiently and effectively. That, in my opinion, could be the content of this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U19	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Kalle Laane, thank you for many courageous and good thoughts. But here's the question. If we compare our country to Scandinavian countries, we will see that we are very close to them in words and dreams, but in action we are hopelessly different from them. In Scandinavia, the work of the state and local government and the use of money are boldly guided by the result; we have, compared to them, have maintained an outstandingly-oriented system of compliance with the Soviet rules. A representative example of the functioning of the Estonian state is this sentence: you have a good proposal, but it goes against this, that or the third-fourth rule. How do you get over this? I am not denying the need for control, but if it is necessary to put in place controls, controls and not to agree between them, then also control controls, then perhaps we trust our municipalities and people too little.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U21	Thank you. Good colleague! One of my main ideas about the structure of today's presentation was that we should think outside the frame, not within the frame. We should let go of the old dogmas and think about how to make sure that our constitutional values are preserved in 10, 20, 30, 50 or 100 years. In fact, when we come back to the reform of government as a concept, governance has long been reformed in different areas. As an example, I dare to point out the area of internal security, where four major prefectures were established as early as 2004 instead of 17 prefectures. In 2006, discussions were launched in the field of internal security on how duplication could be reduced and functions put together reasonably in order to achieve better results. It took four years to complete the bill. The Police and Border Guard Board was established in 2010. One example is that these mergers were able to reduce duplication of functions, with the number of support service providers falling by 600 people. From 2009 until 2016, EUR 6.5 million was saved, which could be provided for the use of officials working in the field, i.e. providing a direct service to a person. This process has been going on for a long time, we are not starting any new thing now, this process has been happening all along.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U22	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U23	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your opening speech, you pointed out the problems we all know well: the decline of the population, the departure of people from the outermost regions and the concentration in cities, the departure of young people, the reduction in the number of people of working age, etc. These are really well-known problems, but do the coalition have plans to deal with them or what has been done? These are not yesterday's or today's problems, they are long-standing problems. Also very well-known population scientists have constantly pointed out that population declines, people leave Estonia and the birth rate decreases. But what do we do? Does the coalition have a little plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U24	Thank you for your question, my dear colleague. I come again to the concept of'reform of government'. Government means how the Estonian state is managed, which structures are used and managed effectively. There are certainly reasons for Estonia's shrinking age, but other specialists can tell them, not me from this remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U25	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U26	Thank you. Honourable performer! It was interesting to read these headlines on the board and listen to what you said. Of course, there was no solution in your speech. If we are so determined to be present on this remote control, we need to do so, we need to improve the governance of the state, I have a question. We have had a re-independence state for 25 years. Why aren't your reform party, the IRL and the soccer people who have done or tried to do these things before in the government today? I have not seen a single step towards improving or trying to improve the system of government. We will raise a question in this Chamber, but I have not even heard any wish to solve anything. And there's a question, by the way, about what to solve.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U27	I guess this is what we are discussing together, how to make government more effective. But I come back to the fact that the reforms have been going on a long time ago. I gave an example in the field of internal security. We know how the Tax and Customs Board has changed its structures so that they are more effective and can provide more efficient services to citizens. There are a lot of projects on the government table right now. For example, I will mention the zero bureaucracy project, which will cut red tape. We know that, in the course of the administrative reform, which I believe is the first stage of the reform of state governance, the role that rural governments should play in the future will be discussed very seriously, whether they should be at all, etc. In fact, it's the opening of a bigger debate, it's not like the laane comes into the remote control and says that the solution is one, the other or the third thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U28	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In your speech, you stressed that we could all be proud of many achievements. As Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, do you not think that, in order to give more certainty to local governments before a new reorganisation, which may be even more proud of, the Government of the Republic should also begin to comply, for example, with the judgment of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010, which states: 'Irishing legislation that does not comply with the Constitution, which would: 1. lay down which obligations imposed by law on local government entities are self-governing and which national authorities; 2. distinguish between the funds for local government entities to decide and organise local life matters from the funds intended for the fulfilment of public obligations and provide for the financing of public obligations imposed on local government entities by law from the state budget'?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U30	In order for people to feel more confident in the process of change, we all have an obligation to explain to people why some changes have been made, how they work and what their goals are. For example, I have attended four public meetings and explained the positions of both the government and the Riigikogu, which we should reach with the administrative reform. That is our role, and that is what we should all do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U31	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, You were talking about border countries. My question has to do with this subject. How do you feel about the idea of improving the representation of the state in what we call the periphery? At present, the country's representation in the counties receives a lot of criticism. Let's honestly say this system should be reviewed, something should be updated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U33	Thank you. Absolutely agree! After all, it is a debate about how certain public authorities can be taken out of the capital and other large cities to the periphery. Ministries could and should be in Tallinn, but offices and inspections can be elsewhere instead. I'll give you an example: why can't the Maritime Administration be somewhere by the water?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U34	Good waitress, thank you! I request Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Good guests! In addition to strengthening Estonia's security, promoting economic growth and supporting people who are underprivileged, the priorities of the government that has become a year old last week are the reform of state administration and local administration. And not just doing it, but making it successful. Exactly a month ago, I handed over to the Riigikogu the draft law on administrative reform approved by the Government of the Republic, which is one of the main engines of the reform of state administration and whose main aim is to ensure high-quality public services and strong local governments throughout Estonia, so that smaller municipalities can gain more capacity to perform their duties and local life is even better organised for the people of Estonia. This is an important milestone and very fundamental progress compared to almost two decades of disputes over the necessity or objectives of the reform. I have said many times before that if you do the great things that administrative reform is undoubtedly for, the Estonian 'nine times measured, once cut' is probably justified. But we must not forget to measure ourselves. When we know that the goal is right and that the task is fit for purpose, things must be done decisively. This starting position may also be the reason why we have gathered here today to discuss the reform of government in this hall. Firstly, we are certainly discussing this because it is a crucial national issue, but secondly because the Government of the Republic has so far not clearly defined the purpose of the reform clearly enough and in public understanding, or because it has not explained what fundamental innovations we intend to implement within the framework of the reform. Although the search for innovation and efficiency of state governance will never stop, each reform must have a clearly defined objective and be aware of the desired outcome of this reform. With a more precise formulation of the task set, we also want to help the Estonian Employers' Confederation and think tank in Praxis, which are the key to the implementation of the state reform, because the clearer the plan, the easier the assessment is and the more adequate the assessment is. I thank those mentioned above and, of course, members of the Riigikogu State Reform Support Group for their demanding support and call on the general public to actively debate the aspects of the reform. Really big ideas deserve an active and open debate and the involvement of as many people and stakeholders as possible. When discussing issues affecting Estonia's future, all arguments and views must be heard, but the decisions made in this way are subject to criticism and a time tooth. Having been involved in several reforms as well as in their role as organisers, I know that the only way to succeed is to determine exactly what is to be achieved and to give detailed reasons for each step. That is why I expect all ministers and civil servants not only to implement the reform successfully, but also to be actively involved and explained. Good Riigikogu! Let us ask, then, what is the reform of government and what is it that we want to achieve. As a small and open country that wishes to develop quickly, Estonia must always be innovative and flexible. One and a half years ago, when I endorsed the OECD Action Plan, I said: 'Our aim is more flexible and open governance of the country. The share of employees paid from the state in employment must not increase; in these circumstances, government institutions must successfully cope with the long-term challenges facing Estonia, which are to increase economic well-being and ensure security. At the same time, citizens and businesses expect a better public service in all areas of life, and for that we must be able to propose, but also implement, innovative solutions. In order to achieve these central objectives, three targets need to be followed: government work is more efficient and the administrative burden is reduced, the share of government employees in the working age population is not increasing and the share of government expenditure in GDP is not increasing. " That was a year and a half ago. I consider it very important that the government formed after the elections has followed these same principles, but has put the bar much higher. The principles that were formulated at the time have become a comprehensive reform plan covering dozens of activities, much more ambitious than I dared to hope for a year and a half ago. However, the development of administrative capacity and governance is not an end in itself; their underlying idea is to support an increase in the country's capacity to tackle long-term and cross-cutting problems. The aim is also to improve the design and implementation of policies for this purpose and to support structural changes that improve public services. Our problems are well known. Because of the ageing and shrinking population, there is already a shortcoming of workers with growth-enhancing skills, which will test the competitiveness of our society in the long term. In order to address this problem, the quality of education needs to be further improved, the labour market needs to be assisted by people with limited working capacity and the creation of jobs by continuing to reduce the tax burden. Natural resources must always be used in a sustainable way in the living environment, while achieving the highest possible economic added value. The coherence of society must be strengthened through successful integration, the level of health, poverty reduction and the strengthening of civil society. The tightened security situation has increasingly highlighted the need to deal with security within and across borders, to ensure the security of the population and to irreversibly integrate with organisations that guarantee international security. The changing world and rapidly developing Estonia are constantly setting new challenges for the public sector. We must have the wisdom to carry out our tasks far more effectively. We must be able to achieve the same or better result with the existing and possibly reduced composition. Each minister and public official must constantly look for ways to organise work even more efficiently, how to use taxpayers' money even more efficiently, how the services provided by the state to citizens and businesses would save time and money and reduce the administrative burden of communicating with the state. Good listeners! The reform of government is not just a matter for one minister or a common title describing the activities of one ministry. That's thinking. The reform of government has three main objectives. First, high-quality public services must be available throughout Estonia. This is why we implement the administrative reform so that local governments become stronger and local life is even better organised for the Estonian people. We bring the school network into line with demographic change by providing high-quality and selective upper secondary school education in all counties. We will make the use of public services faster and more convenient through new e-state developments. We provide high-quality medical care throughout the country through the networking of major hospitals and county hospitals. Let it be said that savings or cuts are not automatic reform. Reform means substantive, structural changes. I will give an example of this latter issue. Reducing treatment services in county centres is not a substantive solution. We need to focus on accessing services and shortening treatment queues. The best recipe for this is, as has been said, structural changes, including the networking of hospitals and, for example, the launch of a digital registry to shorten treatment queues. The second objective of the reform of state governance is to reduce the administrative burden on businesses in their dealings with the state. To this end, we will reduce bureaucracy and accountability through the zero bureaucracy project. We are going fully to the e-procurement system. We will find the most effective form for business support structures, so that companies can obtain services for them in the best possible way, regardless of the sector of activity. We will continue to develop and simplify services for e-residents, as this will create new economic activity and improve, among other things, the quality of services for us domestic users. In order not to create unnecessary rules for an entrepreneurial spirit, we also need to deregulate the business environment in addition to reducing the reporting burden. I consider the initiative of the Riigikogu to legitimize Estonia as one of the first countries in the world to share an economy. Only the day before yesterday, the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu decided to consensually send a draft law to the first reading before the Riigikogu's plenary session. This is a good example of the fact that the simplification of the rules will allow new business models to develop and develop. It is also a vivid example of cooperation and trust between the state and business, and this is yet another assurance that innovation must be the mindset of all of us. The third objective of the reform of government governance is to increase the efficiency and flexibility of the public sector. To this end, we must constantly look for ways to reduce red tape also within the executive. The principle must be that the number of government employees must decrease in line with the decline in the working age population. We must be guided by the principle that absolutely not everything needs to be regulated by law. We will create a single value chain in institutions with similar tasks and a comprehensive sectoral governance, if necessary in the Appendix. We optimise the portfolio of state-owned companies and strengthen the ownership supervision of management decisions. We will complete the centralisation of public support services and the real estate reform. All public services for which this is possible must be digital for citizens and businesses. This will enable us to improve the functioning of the country and make the public sector more efficient. Be examples of e-solutions at the top of the world of the Tax and Customs Board and Road Administration, which have resulted in a 21% reduction in the number of employees in the Tax and Customs Board since 2011, for example, but you will agree with me that both citizens and businesses can use services faster and more conveniently. A more effective tax collection has also enabled the wage of those who do this to be increased by 40% over a period of five years. Let me give you another simple example. The cross-use of photographs between the police and the Road Administration alone made it possible to save EUR 300000 on the loss of photo booths from offices. More importantly, some 130,000 people no longer have to stand in the office in the long line each year. The third example. We intend to switch completely to e-invoices from 2017 and save around 2.5 million euros. Similarly, a one hundred percent transition to e-procurement will save around EUR 12 million, and so every year. It is this kind of innovation and innovative mindset that I would like to see in all public authorities providing services to citizens and businesses. Finally. I agree with the attorney-at-law, the lawyer and the ardent leader of the state reform, Jüri Raidla, who, speaking in the opinion article of Postimees a few months ago, said that the additional proposals and comments to be made on the draft should in no way reduce the praise of this draft. The likelihood of success of the reform of government governance and the praise of this reform can only increase if as many people as possible think and formulate their thoughts into proposals in order to achieve the objectives. The reform of government is a process whose major objectives are interlinked and whose yardstick can only be an increasingly efficient and flexible functioning state. Good Riigikogu! Each of you can contribute to making the Estonian state even more effective and innovative. I expect all of you to take an active part in the implementation of the reform of administrative and state governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U36	Prime Minister, thank you. You have a lot of questions. Please, March Sults!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Kalle Laane was advised to think outside the frame. Here comes my question. By making this government effective and thinking out of the frame, does the ruling party mean that it should spend EUR 500000 from the reserve every day for the costs of governance? In two years, the frames will be out, because the reserve will reach zero. How do you justify spending EUR 500000 per day from the reserve?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U38	Thank you. It's a very simple question. In 2014 and 2015 the state budget was in structural and nominal surplus. So fundamentally, the amount of public money has increased over the past two years, when I have had the honour of being Prime Minister. However, there may indeed be temporary cash-flow fluctuations in national reserves, as well as in terms of debt burden, because there are periods when we have to make euro money disbursements before we have got that money back from the European Union. This is a pure cash-flow issue and it would certainly not be worth drawing the conclusion that today's Äripäev has made that the state is going beyond its means or is in deficit with a budget. No, it's not. I can assure you that the results of the budget for 2014 and 2015 have already been summed up, that in both years we were in surplus, both structurally and nominally. In fact, the state's financial situation has improved over the last two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U39	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U40	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! At the meeting of the Government Office of the day before yesterday, the plan for reform of government was discussed. The Ministry of Finance presented the objectives and planned activities of the reform of government. This report included, among other things, a plan to merge eight implementing units in order to establish a "super-implementing unit" under the Ministry of Finance. This plan received great criticism at the meeting of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu on 4 April, if not to say that its usefulness was questioned. My question is whether the Committee on Economic Affairs' criticism of this plan has come to the government and, if so, whether the government intends to take this into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U41	Thank you. First of all, we intend to analyse very thoroughly how this is the most sensible, high-quality and efficient way to organise it, not just for entrepreneurship, but for better payment of euro grants to wider sectors of society. No plan has been closed yet, but the desire to improve the situation is, in my opinion, for all the ministers involved. We did not lock up any solutions when discussing the state reform situation in the office yesterday. I would stress that the concentration of the operational units was not at all meant that all of these bodies should be concentrated, but that the content of this particular idea is not yet a decided idea; it is when considering that if the departments or departments involved in administration were in eight places, it would be possible to review whether it would not be possible to do things better if they were in one, two or three places. That's the goal. I think we need to see in all institutions whether we can do things better if we act together. This does not necessarily mean merging existing institutions, but this possibility should not be ruled out either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U42	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U43	Prime Minister! When I listened to your presentation, I was thinking about Switzerland and the historical strength of the Swiss country, which lies not only in the Alpine mountains with which it is surrounded and in the banks, but also in the fact that every man has a gun at home. But we have every person in the computer home, we think we are an e-state, and we can manage our country and our people better in this way. In fact, the Estonian resource could still be that more and more people participate voluntarily in government. We take our municipalities, which is also part of the state. If we count the councillors who make decisions on the councils, it turns out that there is a large number of them per country. They're actually our pride, they're volunteering for this job, without payment. Instead of increasing the army of paid officials, perhaps we should think about how to increase the voluntary participation in the construction of the state. Do you agree with that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U44	Thank you. I can answer you on the basis of my immediate experience. I live in a municipality where more than 400,000 people live. At the same time, my shift around home is a very active community in Cattail. The community list and meetings, in very different formats, discusses detailed plans, opening hours of some shops and also whether or not we invite a band to Cattail Days. All issues will be discussed in a community-wide manner. I think it's only positive for the people in this region. It is in no way formalised, there is no legislative act on the basis of which the Cattail Society operates. It is the free will of the people, the initiative of the people, and it works very well, I think. I think we all have the opportunity to participate in this kind of activity, time and effort. I believe that MEPs, too, always have reason to see if it is possible to find the time to say the word in their own country, at this micro level. I know that's what a lot of people are doing. Of course, human activity and community activity are on the rise. I also think that this is very positive, as you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U45	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! At the beginning of your speech, you mentioned a number of government priorities. This list of priority tasks did not include the topic of Estonia's demographic status. At the same time, our population dynamics are extremely dissuasive. A number of well-known population scientists estimate that this is already a population crisis. Good Prime Minister, do you see the need and opportunity to find an institutional link in the reform of government to address the population problem? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U47	Thank you. In the previous block, Kalle Laanet was asked whether the decline in population was something that we absolutely must accept. My answer is that you don't have to. We must continue to work to ensure that the population does not fall. We have made some very correct decisions in history, which have significantly slowed down this decline. The most significant of these is parental benefit. Unlike the editorial of today's Eesti Päevaleht, I do not think that we should start breaking parental benefit or reducing the confidence of young families. Parental benefit works as a confidence-creating person, just as it is. The mere fact that we are constantly discussing whether to take something away, place an obligation on someone else and reduce the chances of mothers, actually creates unnecessary aziotage and reduces the confidence of young people. That's one. What can the government do now to improve the demographic situation? We have set ourselves the goal of multiplying the support of a family of three children. That's for two reasons. Firstly, because if there are three or more children in the family, the economic performance of the family is more at risk, say so, statistically and on average. Secondly, because no family in Estonia should have a decision to have a third child behind money problems. I am absolutely certain that if the third child comes with a total of EUR 300 child support, it will not cause anyone to give birth, but it will provide the necessary assurance, so that even the third child, if he or she is expected to be in the family, will not be born because of financial uncertainty. I'm sure you'll have to look for more of these things. Yes, we know the demographic situation is a problem. Yeah, we have to take that into account. Yes, we must shape our policies with this in mind. But there's no way we should accept that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U48	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U49	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! It is up to us to define the full content of this reform. I want to ask you more generally. Tell me, Mr Prime Minister, three of the most important indicators in your opinion that could be used to assess the success of the reform of state governance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U50	Thank you. We have actually formulated this reform, as we understand it in the government union, as part of the coalition agreement, and later we have specified it in the work plan. It seems to me that perhaps it is also practical for us to do, on the basis of all the points that we have agreed on in the government union, a single, two-page document from which everyone can see the concrete actions that the government union has agreed on and what we understand under the reform of government. Then it will also be easier to evaluate and measure whether or not these things can be done. There are far more than three of them. If I have to choose the most important ones, I would say that the biggest weight is probably administrative reform and that the proportion of public employees in the entire working age population does not increase. We must be prepared to reduce the number of people in public service slightly every year. Predictably, the first year's goals in this area were met by the government with a considerable margin. It was not easy and we were able to hear a great deal of criticism in society. There were institutions that refused to reduce and said that their institution should actually grow. Yet, the government as a whole did this task. I think it's necessary. The public sector must not become an increasing burden on the private sector, as it would have a direct impact on our economic activity and the well-being of society as a whole. I could give many more examples, but I believe that we are doing written material where everyone can see the 20 actions that we want to do in the course of the administrative reform. I read about 15 of them today. These are all the best yardsticks to determine whether the reform of administrative and state governance has succeeded.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U51	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U52	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Can we be sure that the four waitresses and the audience who follow this discussion understand the concept of state reform in the same way? Is it still the same elephant we describe? There's no material in front of us. Yes, the coalition agreement is part of the reform of the state. However, I read the programme of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, which contains other things. Yesterday, you sat next to the Minister for the Environment when I asked under the coalition agreement whether the resources of the underground were to remain under the Ministry of the Environment or go under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I got a response that doesn't really fit into the part of the state reform of the coalition treaty. What's your answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U53	Thank you. First of all, there are 101 members of the Riigikogu. We have a coalition, we have an opposition, and most certainly each of us has a slightly different understanding of what exactly should be done in the context of the state reform. It is up to me to present to you the government union's agreement on what the government union sees as a reform of government and what we intend to implement under the name of the reform of government. Of course, people in society can have their own vision. That's totally acceptable. I think there are a lot of interesting ideas that have come up with both the cooperation body you mentioned and Jüri Raidla, who can talk about their ideas today. But those things that must be done must be selected by the Government of the Republic appointed by a democratically elected parliament. For example, I do not consider it part of the state reform if the number of employees of Eesti Pank is halved. Even if I considered this part of the reform, as we well know, Eesti Pank is independent of both the government and the parliament, and this reduction would not be possible for the government to take its own work plan. Nor do I consider it part of the reform of the state to be a reduction in the composition of Parliament. This, according to the coalition, is not the most pressing problem that should be addressed. However, I consider administrative reform to be an integral part of the reform of state governance. I consider all the 15 or 20 things I read to you today to be an integral part. As has already been said, we are ready to take them out of the coalition agreement and work plan already agreed on a point-by-point basis so that everyone in Parliament and also in various think tanks can follow up and see exactly when and what is being carried out. Then you can also assess whether these things are done. I very consciously said that this list would also help those who think that they could give grades to the government or to Parliament. This is helpful because, for example, if the grade was designed according to whether the number of members of the Riigikogu would be reduced in four years, then you could immediately set zero. That's not what we're gonna do, I'm gonna be honest with you. I think that it would be more adequate to put the scores according to what we have set ourselves as a goal and what we have received a mandate from the voters, not simply on the basis of the thoughts coming from somewhere, which are certainly interesting to discuss, but in which case someone should also democratically apply for a mandate. Certainly, an adequate rating can be given to both the government and Parliament for whether and how decisively administrative reform can be made, whether the executive power, in line with the decline in the working age population, can also increase the efficiency of officials and executive staff, whether we can create new e-solutions, whether we can make the country ever more flexible. This is where the grades are expected and certainly justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U54	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U55	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister! You wanted demanding support, and that is why I ask: who will have to ask in three years' time how we have done with the reform of the state? Is it the Minister of State Administration, or is it the Prime Minister? Praxis experts, employers' representatives and the attorney-at-law you quoted, Jüri Raidla, have pointed out the need for the Prime Minister to take the lead on this issue and to hold them clearly in his hands. Dear Taavi Clothes, will you take this responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U56	Thank you. I took this responsibility on 9 April last year, taking up the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic and a head of government. Not only did I take responsibility for the reform of the state, for which the coalition agreement states that the Prime Minister is responsible for it separately. Actually, I'm responsible for everything this government does. I am also responsible for my party doing one thing or another, including those things in which I do not have an immediate role. Of course I'm responsible. I intend to do everything possible to ensure that the agreed things that we have planned to implement together with the IRL and the Social Democrats are actually realised.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U57	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U58	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Secretary of State Heiki Loot has come up with the idea of bringing the Ministry's Legal Service under uniform management. As Director of Government Communications in my time, I spoke about the possibility of bringing government communication under more unified management and making it more flexible and effective. Have these ideas also been discussed in planning the reform of government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U59	This is very difficult, because the very large amount of legislation we are currently working on is, to a lesser or greater extent, the result of the European Union. This is where I think we should take the easy way out. Thousands of lawyers in Brussels have already done their job. We have joined the European Union and we have trusted this organisation when we enter the European Union. I think we could calmly take over the European Union's right in a simpler and lighter way, with our own smaller efforts. In this case, a smaller official body would be needed, and the workload would also be lower for this official body, how to say it. We cannot ignore European Union law, but we can implement it more easily, automatically or almost automatically. There have, of course, been such things in European Union law that, from the point of view of Estonia, have literally been foolish. Perhaps you will remember when European Union legislation sought to foresee that 7% of all the Member States' agricultural area should be greened, i.e. scrubbed in Estonian. The people who wrote this down had just never flown from Germany to Estonia in a row. You can see what the picture is on the plane. I remember the words of the then Minister for Agriculture, Seeder, who commented on this at the farmers' spring conference in Viljandi. He said at the moment when I came in, so he guarantees that if in Estonia somebody is going to follow this thing very closely and really let the fields grow into bushes for this reason, then these people must probably be bought madness shirts on the account of the Ministry of Agriculture. I agree very much with him. We must not go crazy when introducing such clearly inadequate claims from the European Union into Estonian law. By the way, Minister Seeder also achieved the goal: Estonia is currently not engaged in the bushing of fields. That's great.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U60	Good waitress, thank you! I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu Tanel Talve, President of the Riigikogu Support Group on State Reform!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and guests! One of the reasons for my application to the Riigikogu was the idea that our country has sank into stagnation when it was actively interacting with the Estonian village communities. But standing still, as we all know very well, is actually going backwards. Crazy ideas have always taken Estonia forward. That is why I am also firmly convinced that we should not be afraid to set really big goals and make plans to implement them as well. When our country was re-established in the 1990s, the situation was somewhat easier because there was nothing to lose. It is humanly understandable that we are now afraid to lose a little what we have achieved as a result of 20 years of hard work and self-sacrifice. But in order to make a new leap of development, we need to do things differently in principle, to take risks, if necessary. The world around us is changing at an increasing pace, and Estonia's small size should still be our biggest competitive advantage over other countries. We can be more agile than others, more responsive to change and, most importantly, ready for change. But are we? The need for state reform in Estonia has been discussed for years. If we do not want to listen to our own people who stress the need for reform, at the head of a respected previous speaker, Jüri Raidla, then perhaps we believe in foreign specialists. The 2011 OECD Assessment Document already states that the Republic of Estonia will not be able in the long term to maintain such a lack of synergies and so expensively. The X-ray of the Estonian Cooperation Chamber also says that our country is too complex and organisationally uneven. The National Reform Support Group recognises the efforts of the Government and the Riigikogu and the activities so far in preparing administrative-territorial reform as part of the state reform. At the same time, it is considered necessary to stress that the state reform to give Estonia a new pace of development is by its very nature a much wider undertaking. It is the Riigikogu that will play a key role in defining and launching it in the near future. The administrative reform in the form currently proposed by the government is only part of the reform. At the moment, this is an administrative-territorial reform; it will only become a substantive administrative reform if there are currently no components, such as a review of the functions of local government and the financing model, as well as a regulation that would give local communities greater discretion in their daily lives. When meeting the village communities, our rural people often point out that the state's part of the so-called state reform plan introduced to the people is, as if, missing. It's understandable that people are curious when they'll talk about it. The current activities of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are also focused solely on optimising savings. What about optimising and focusing content activities? Where is the creation of our new preconditions for development? Where are the steps taken to increase the state's operational capacity? What is our vision for the future of Estonia that will truly unite our people? Who's gonna deal with this and when? These are questions, good people, to which answers are expected. Given that there is going to be a period of presidential and local elections, of the Presidency of the European Union and of the elections of the European Parliament and of our Parliament, it is feared that the substantive interpretation of the state reform will remain out of focus and effort. The lack of a comprehensive action plan is worrying. However, the emergence of individual ideas is not a reform strategy, although it can be a very good input in the preparation of the reform agenda. It is therefore vital to establish the basis for the reform of the state, the timetable and the regularity of its monitoring. The existence of a clearly defined task and plan of state reform in the Riigikogu is particularly important, as responsibility for state reform is divided between several ministries. In addition to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the State Chancellery have an important role to play. In order for these institutions to take one step in their reform activities, there is a need for coherent foundations of the reform as well as synchronised activities and timetables. This is why the Support Group for State Reform has made very concrete proposals for a clear definition of the work process following today's debate for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. First of all, the discussion of the topic of state reform in the Riigikogu in the form of a very important national issue must be made regular. Secondly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs needs to take a leading role in defining the nature and starting task of the state reform, as well as in developing the decision of the Riigikogu, which would provide clear guidelines for the executive power to carry out a robust, purposeful and systematic work on the reform of the state as a whole. The State Reform Support Group, which involves political parties and also external experts, promises its full assistance in this process and hopes that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will undertake to prepare and submit to the Riigikogu Management Board a draft decision on the basis of the state reform principles already during the autumn session of this year. According to the support group, the timetable for this process should provide for action as soon as possible, even faster than the honourable Jüri Raidla pointed out. We are even more ambitious than George. For example, joint workshops between the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Support Group will take place between May and October 2016 with the participation of experts, where the definitions proposed so far by the parties will be reviewed, the proposals on state reform and its action plans, and a draft decision on the basis of 'State reform bases' will be drawn up. In October or November 2016, the Riigikogu's second debate on a major state reform issue could take place in the Riigikogu's plenary session, and the Constitutional Committee could pass on to the Riigikogu's board the draft decision 'Basics of State Reform', which should include, among other things, a comprehensive definition of state reform, objectives and government tasks. The draft should also include the supervisory function of the Riigikogu in monitoring the process of state reform and the reporting obligation of the government. Good co-thinkers! The scale of our country, economic opportunities, geographical position, demographic situation and, on the other hand, the modern toolbox for democracy ♪ all of this requires not the copying of a traditional European model of state, but an original and more effective model of its own. Good friends! So let's be brave, believe more in ourselves and make history together! Let us think, prepare and implement a real state reform! I believe that we are all in agreement: this is a serious prerequisite for our country and our people to be successful and happy in the next hundred years. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U62	Thank you, good waitress. Let's get to the questions. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good Tanel, you've done a great job! I was a little late, and I wanted to compliment Jüri Raidla, but I ran out of time. He really brought very fresh ideas to this Riigikogu. But here's my question. How many steps of these ten commandments have we already passed, not the Ten Commandments of the Bible, but the Ten Commandments of Raidla?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U64	I take this opportunity to thank and congratulate Jüri Raidla once again. Yes, very worthy thoughts! But when we talk about freshness, I would point out that Jüri Raidla has been saying this for years. I am very pleased that Parliament and the government are now taking this issue more seriously. I very much hope that the timetable that our support group has proposed will be taken seriously. We are really working hard this summer, and we will be ready for the foundations of the state reform by autumn, so that it is clear what Parliament means by all of this. After all, Jüri Raidla has tried to define a great many other organisations, such as the Assembly of Cooperation, Praxis, employers, and employers. However, as long as Parliament has not clearly defined this reform and has written down the initial tasks, it will be very difficult to work on the Praxis National Reform Radar, because it is not clear what it will measure in the end. So what is very important is that we ourselves put these things in place using Jüri Raidla, Praxis and other organisations and people's ideas and opinions. On this timetable, I think, as Jüri Raidla pointed out, that the implementation of the first part of the state reform should not be too difficult, because there is indeed a great deal of preliminary work done. So it shouldn't be hard for us to concentrate and agree on this during the summer. But, ladies and gentlemen, once again, this calls for a cross-party and statesmanly thinking. If we get stuck here in party interests and scores, I don't know what we're gonna say to our kids in 50 or 20 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U65	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I still have the problem of defining or describing an elephant. I agree that if we bring here a draft decision under § 154, it will be more specific. Specific amendments can also be made to specific statements. Let me ask you this: what is the rapporteur's original definition of what the reform of the state involves? In such a case, what should be included in debate 2 on a very important national issue, which would once again take place without a document? Are there any new performers or what do you expect from it? I'd be waiting for ID.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U67	Yes, I fully agree with you in the sense that I, too, am in favour of a faster timetable. Indeed, the second OTRK debate could already take place in a situation where this document exists. As far as my own definition is concerned, it largely coincides with Jüri Raidla's thoughts. I think, like him, that we should focus on the concept of state reform a little more narrow, we should not allow it to spread out too much, because then we would have to talk about state reform as such. As Jüri Raidla said, it's like they do all the time, and there's always a chance to say something's going on somewhere. Our serious aim could be to highlight Parliament's joint agreement, which is a state reform, as a document by autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U68	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U69	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress, thank you! I have such a problem. The previous speaker also said that this topic, especially the reform of the state, has soon been, I don't know, talked about the serious key for ten years, but there is an increasing number of confrontations with the issue of who is responsible. The Riigikogu has stopped initiating this reform itself. The committees explicitly say that this is not their job, but it is the government's job. They've been waiting for the government to come and initiate. But, as has been pointed out here, the state reform needs a certain radicality, but if the coalition is to survive, that radicality will never come. What do you think needs to be changed? Or do you already know who the responsible one is who would definitely define the state reform as you set the task by autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I come to your ninth command concerning the control of mass legislation. Many have realized that there are too many laws. The reasons for this are different. We are not an old parliamentary country like Britain, we are also trained enough lawyers, but the question is that we are a country of the European Union. Would you place this ninth commandment in the context of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U71	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U72	Thank you. Yes, it has been discussed that support services can be provided jointly. This has also been discussed because four ministries are moving into one house in the near future. Then it will be monitored separately to ensure that there are no four separate citadels in that house, but that there is as much as possible of synergies in substance. Two issues have already been mentioned, but I will also mention, for example, issues relating to the organisation and reporting of missions. We have been quite well able to centralise accounting, information technology and the real estate economy in the country. Not every ministry has to deal with all these things on its own. These activities can be consolidated and consolidated. I think this must definitely be continued. In such cases, there is a hope that the silo towering of the Ministry's substance will decrease. Oi-oi how much we have heard the use of the word "your house" and "our house" by ministries. The more we can direct the ministries to cooperation, the less such confrontation between you and our house will arise, and the more coherent the policy that the country is pursuing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U73	Prime Minister, thank you. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu speech chair by attorney-at-law Jüri Raidla!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia is not broken. Our constitution has served us well, so I do not think the state needs repair or overhaul. The Estonian state needs further development and modernisation, it needs modernisation in order to serve us in the future as well as it has served us so far. In this context, I sincerely hope that 14 April 2016 will be the symbolic beginning of the modernisation of Estonian statehood. Allow me to begin my presentation with the very sincere thanks of the citizens to the Riigikogu, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its chairman, Kalle Laanet, for the constructive approach you have shown in your attitude towards my civil request, which I presented to the Riigikogu in an article published in the Postimees on 8 February. I am far from prioritising my civil request, but in any case there is a very beautiful coincidence between my request and today's debate. The concepts and terms play a very important role in both law and politics, much bigger than we normally think. In my report, I speak about the reform of the state, although the Riigikogu's agenda is the reform of government. The formulation used on the agenda has both a plus and a minus half compared to the reform of the state. The minus side is that the term 'government reform' refers to a less radical approach compared to'state reform'. The ancestor of the state reform that started more than six years ago, the reform of state administration, did not fly. He did not even receive criticism from the political elite, let alone support. It was probably a rather small term to demonstrate radicality. The same risk is also the term for reform of government. The dose of radicality may be too low. But he also has a plus side. Plusside is undoubtedly the fact that the term "state governance" refers nicely to what is in the content of the state reform, as well as to what is not included in the content of the state reform. It is clear from the day that the concentration of medical staff in one of the leading hospitals in Estonia has nothing to do with state reform. This is precisely because this concentration has no connection to the process of government. Hopefully, at the beginning of the year, the issue referred to above was only a work accident, not a conscious attempt to remember people against the reform of the state when it had not even begun. It is not possible to fully describe the society and its processes by statistical indicators. Society doesn't count or function according to Excel's table, society senses. The state must also feel society, not merely measure it. A change is only a reform if people recognise and recognise the reform in this change. To this end, the changes must be sufficiently radical, sufficiently complex and sufficiently far-reaching. The word'sufficient' is also a cognitive category in the above context. When it comes to state reform, at least three things need to be negotiated and agreed at political level. Firstly, the aim of the state reform, secondly, the concept and content of the state reform, thirdly, the scale of the state reform in time and space. The state reform is not an end in itself; it is a means of pursuing the national interests of Estonia in the long term. State reform is necessary to ensure that the Republic of Estonia is also in the long term 'for the protection of internal and external peace' and that current and future generations are placed in their social success and overall benefit'. Apart from the above, at a somewhat lower philosophical level, the aim of state reform is to reduce the cost of state administration without sacrificing the quality of statehood. One of the central objectives of the debate on today's nationally important issue could be to start a process in which the content of the state reform is first determined and, secondly, the reform of the state is also carried out. Today we are in a strange situation: the government is doing undefined state reform and the government is being criticised for not doing undefined state reform. It's nonsense from both sides, by the performers and by the critics. The lines of those who hesitate and doubt the need for state reform have remained pleasantly sparse. Remarkable services in the process of dilution of anti-reform moods have been enjoyed by many Estonian entrepreneurs. On 17 February 2015, the Estonian Employers' Confederation organized a conference called Tuulelohe Flight, where there was a fundamental break. The prime minister candidates, Taavi Rõivas, Juhan Parts and Sven Mikser, who argued before the entrepreneurs, all took up the idea of a state reform with greater or less enthusiasm and supported many of the substantive views presented at the conference. According to § 56 of the Constitution of Estonia, in the Republic of Estonia, the highest authority is exercised by the people. Unfortunately, our highest authority is at an ageing, shrinking and shrinking stage of development. However, the same cannot be said of other public authorities, where yeasts continue to survive and rise. Or is it still going on? Or if it continues, how long it lasts, it is appropriate to ask. The highest authority can't stand such an expensive country in the long run; it gets tired. However, it is not satisfied and must not be satisfied with less or less national performance. Since there is no reason to expect the appearance of two million Estonian taxpayers in the near future, we must start from the other end, i.e. state reform. What is the reform of the state? In my view, the reform of the state is a reorganisation of a public authority organisation with a revision of the functions and services performed by the public authorities and an adjustment of the mechanisms of action. In order to avoid ambiguity, I would add that public authorities both concern central and local authorities, which is why the administrative reform is part of the reform of the state. Paradoxically, I have to admit that the above definition of academic nature is doubtful of practical value in terms of the positive formulation of the state reform. The only practical value of the proposed definition is that it helps to rule out phenomena and phenomena that are not included in the content of the state reform. Recently, the view that state reform is a kind of reform of the universe, i.e. almost all the things that are important for the promotion of the life of the state and the people, are intended to be linked to the reform of the state. As a preacher of state reform, I could enjoy it, but unfortunately the reality is the opposite. This way of thinking is extremely dangerous to state reform, so as not to say disastrous, because it allows us to talk endlessly about how state reform is happening as it is always happening, because some changes are taking place from time to time. It is equally disastrous for the reform of the state to say that the reform of the state is one endless process that has no beginning, no end or no end, and that therefore the reform of the state should in practice be defined by a list of its components and a description of their components. It will be easier, it will be more practical, it will also be possible to demonstrate effectively how far the reform has been achieved on the radar of the state reform launched by Praxis. The content of the state reform has been addressed by many people and organisations, including political parties represented in the Riigikogu in their 2015 electoral platforms, as well as the Estonian Cooperation Assembly and the Estonian Employers' Confederation. In the pre-election period, an article by four men was published on seven proposals for state reform. The so-called Ten Commandments of Raidla, issued by the speaker here, also deserve to be reviewed for ten years. Due to the time constraints, I can only briefly address some of my ten proposals. I fully understand the personal risk of repeating my first proposal in this Chamber of the Riigikogu after the Prime Minister's presentation: the composition of the Riigikogu as 71 members. This proposal is not original. It has found both primitive support and a very powerful and ironic disparage. I would like to say to the opponents that the purpose of this proposal is not fiscal, through which the Estonian state budget would benefit, but it is signalling and creating a role model. The Riigikogu is the centre of gravity of parliamentarianism. Logically, the Riigikogu should also be a centre of gravity for state reform. All the more so, thanks to the 2015 electoral debates, the current Riigikogu has a mandate for the development of state reform and, I stress, partly for its realisation. If the country wants to reform itself seriously, it must start with its own gravity centre, which is Parliament. The closer neighbours Latvians and Finns and the more distant neighbours Swedes, Danes and Norwegians are doing well in proportion to the much smaller parliaments, and they are not concerned about whether or not the cube formula has been followed in shaping Parliament's size. Reducing the composition of the Riigikogu to state reform is the meaning of the flagship of the reform. Fears, as if there were some important problems in the 71-member Riigikogu compared to the 101-member parliament, are not taken seriously. But if the 71-member Riigikogu does not fit politically, let us turn to the Estonian classics, instead of doing a full overhaul, let us do half the work and reduce the composition of the Riigikogu to 91 members. The signal would be that. The second proposal deserves consideration of the actual and greater involvement of the people through referendums. How can this be achieved? The people's collection and ice platter familiar with the recent past are not and cannot be sufficient. In order to involve the people in substance, more needs to be called upon to decide, i.e. to hold referendums. To this end, it is necessary to amend § 105 (4) of the Constitution and in the future not to associate the rejection of the draft in referendum with the dissolution of the Riigikogu. On the issue of referendum, the Riigikogu is currently a hostage to the Constitution, as the President of the Republic has no right of discretion in the event of rejection of the draft referendum, in which case the Riigikogu must be dissolved. A wider use of the referendum would make it possible to eliminate the appearance of inclusion and thereby significantly reduce the mutual alienation of people and power. I am deeply convinced that the level of parliamentarianism in Estonia is already such that every kind of fear story about how the opposition is going to devastate the coalition with proposals for referendums is not a cause. The coalition should be able to stand up to this in the Riigikogu sufficiently. For the sake of clarity, I stress two things. Firstly, my proposal for more frequent use of referendums in deciding on important issues of state life does not mean leaning towards the Swiss model of Estonia's model of governance. Secondly, the more active use of the referendum has nothing to do with the Institute of People's Initiative, which is not and should not be in Estonian law today. As a third proposal, please pay attention to the need to institutionalise the Prime Minister, giving him independent competence and turning him into the Supreme Strategy of the Republic of Estonia. According to the current Government of the Republic Act, the Prime Minister's competence catalogue is rather narrow. To a large extent, this catalogue is related to the organisation and management of the work of the Government of the Republic. Independent, institutional competences are minimal. In order to shape the strategy of the Republic of Estonia, the Prime Minister does not have the resources, powers or institutional capacity. The lack of a country's main strategy makes it necessary to institutionalise the Prime Minister and give him independent competence. It would be perfectly appropriate if the strategy office of the State Chancellery, the monitoring and growth programme unit of the Development Fund, and the strategy centre of the Republic of Estonia, based on the structural units and very good specialists of Eesti Pank, were to be established directly for the Prime Minister. Obviously, the strategy centre would in no way be an institution outside the parliamentary system. On the contrary, one strategy will become real in the Estonian state when it is approved by the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu. The restructuring of the Development Fund is ongoing, it would be very sad if this process did not result in the pooling of resources into a single entity, but in fragmentation being maintained or even increased. As the reform of local administration is coming and the Riigikogu is currently actively engaged in this subject, I can allow myself, for reasons of time, not to dwell on these issues. I merely note that, in my opinion, rural governments and rural elders do not have a perspective as a structural unit of central authority and should be abolished. I hope that the administrative reform will eventually also take place at the county level, which will give the rural parents, as an Estonian institution, a chance to be reborn as the heads of the county authorities. It almost sounds like the Lehola Lembitu times! Let it be made clear that my talk about regional self-government reform does not in any way mean a two-tier municipality. Despite continuing my support for regional self-government reform, I will present a very sincere citizen's praise and support to the government and Riigikogu when the administrative reform is carried out on the basis of the draft before the Riigikogu. This would be an important step in the right direction. The ninth wish of my Ten Commandments is to curb the laws of mass, state and society that are harassing. It is a pleasure to note that the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, has taken this matter to heart. One of the central recommendations of the legislative council convened by the Minister that not to say a very strong requirement for the Minister of Justice is related to the VTC, or the intention to draft a draft law. This demanding recommendation was as follows. No draft law should enter the Government of the Republic without the VTK, unless the Minister of Justice has exceptionally given his consent. The refusal of the Minister of Justice to give his consent could only be amended by a decision of the Government of the Republic as a whole. It could also become a common topic for discussion in the Riigikogu, which would lead to an increase in the role of the Riigikogu in the development of Estonian statehood and would have a positive impact on our social status. The explanatory memorandum to the preclaims should contain a detailed set of reasons. First of all, there is a problem. Secondly, the problem cannot be solved in any other way than by means of new legislation alone. Thirdly, the problem can indeed be resolved by means of legislation. Let me give you some examples. As an example of voluminous legislation, the Estonian Cooperation Assembly pointed out the fact that the national legislative plans of 2014 provided for an average of 3.5 drafts per week to be prepared. The Commercial Code has been amended 100 times since its entry into force. No wonder we need constantly more highly qualified officials to produce laws. This production, in turn, gives rise to an ever - growing need for new officials, since someone will have to enforce these laws later. Only the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu have the power to change the reverse practice of legislation. The Chancellor of Justice will certainly find additional and robust ways to contribute to this. As a very practical step, the Chancellor of Justice has agreed to participate in the legislative council of the Minister of Justice. Thanks to Ülle Madis for that! It's about attitude and focus. Change in the culture of governance is the solution to the problem. The grand day of legislative restraint comes when the Riigikogu rejects the legislative initiative of the Government of the Republic for the first time because it is overregulation. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today, we have come to a commendable situation where the reform of the state has become a real part of everyday political rhetoric. But that's not enough. The rhetoric of the state reform is of practical value only if the Riigikogu is able to find a sufficient number of political joint elements to agree on the meaning and content of the state reform. This is not an easy goal, but it must try. I very much hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will assume the role of parliamentary leader in preparing the starting point for state reform. Summer is a time of very good work, there are much fewer distractions. Younger generation experts need to be gathered. The 1990s gave our generation the opportunity and the need to deal with the Estonian Constitution. Today gives the new generation the need and opportunity to prepare the Estonian state reform. Obviously, the generation of the Constitution should provide advice, strength and experience to assist and support, but not in the role of a central stormhouse. The political subscriber to the concept and content of the state reform should be the Riigikogu. The Institute of State Law (re-started) of the University of Tartu could become the owner of the order. The same institute of constitutional law could also carry out constitutional examination, because sooner or later Estonia is demanding the renewal of the Constitution, not replacement. The summer work of experts and the efforts of politicians in the autumn could be achieved by defining the concept and content of state reform for Christmas this year. Tanel Talve's opinion that in order to achieve such a result, there is a need for far more than one discussion of a key national issue in the Riigikogu. Continuing to reflect on the timetable of state reform, it would be entirely appropriate for the Riigikogu to decide in the first months of 2017 to propose to the Government of the Republic to develop the foundations of state reform. Obviously, this decision would also include the concept of state reform and Parliament's political guidelines on the content of the state reform. The government could then work hard on this thing for one year, and it should. It would be symbolic if, by the beginning of 2018, the Government of the Republic presented the foundations of state reform to the Riigikogu for discussion. A better gift for the Republic of Estonia for its 100th birthday would be very difficult to come up with. If the idea set out by the Prime Minister is realized, which I very much support, that state reform should become a way of thinking, then I believe that it is possible to do such things in this timetable too. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U75	Good waitress, thank you! You have a lot of questions. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U76	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, good waitress. I very much liked the fact that you tried to contrast two concepts, state reform and government. However, I was a little concerned about whether the examples you gave me were still about the reform of the state. The Prime Minister also pointed out that we need structural changes. That means, in my opinion, who does what he does and how he does it. I still have a request for you to analyse a little whether the Administrative Reform Act were, I assume, that you have read it; this draft is still a state reform in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. I would argue that this is more about state governance, because it is about administrative changes, not about reviewing tasks, functions and competences. Is this administrative reform still an example of state reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U77	Thank you. I can answer with great confidence that it is. If you have noted my 'academic' proposal for the definition, this definition is filled by two sides: a state organisation and the functioning of state administration. Administrative reform will undoubtedly mean restructuring the organisation in its substance. How much is the second component of the administrative reform? I hope that these other components, which concern governance as part of the process, will come to an end. There are also these in the current bill, but it seems to me that a little inadequate. However, despite everything, the pending draft law on administrative reform is part of the state reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U78	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you very much for a good presentation and also for those previous presentations that have repeatedly taken place in the National Reform Support Group! My question concerns Maximism and minimalism. In general, there are people in this Chamber who want to be maximists, but the decision must finally be agreed on'minimum standards', because there is no more power. My question concerns you as a lecturer, perhaps that teacher Lauri's type of attitude. Would you like to make a recommendation to the Riigikogu Chamber in the context of the reform of the state, if we do not have time to do the full overhaul, is it worth doing half of the work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U80	Thanks for the question, it's interesting and intriguing. At first, I proposed when a person will recognise and recognise the reform. In other words, it is the same talk about trinitarian radicality, complexity, and scale. Radicality and scale can be reduced to a certain limit, to the point where the reform is still felt. If the reform is no longer felt, there is no point in moving forward with its reduction. My specific talk, based on Estonian classics, was related to the size of the composition of the Riigikogu. As I said earlier, reducing the composition of the Riigikogu is, in my view, absolutely not a fiscal measure to refresh the state budget. I think that the result may even be an increase in the cost base of the Riigikogu in the state budget, because then there would obviously be a need to increase the competence centre of the Riigikogu, I mean experts and specialists who will serve you and help you. But, as I said earlier, the reduction in the composition of the Riigikogu is the meaning of a launcher for the reform of the state, primarily signalling. I imagine that if the composition of the Riigikogu was reduced by even ten members, a large number of Estonian voters would like it exceptionally. For some reason, it seems to me that the parties that carry out this idea will definitely win the next elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U81	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U82	Dear Jüri Raidla! You, who you have been in the process of creating the Constitution, certainly have a moral right to talk about the need for renewal of the Constitution. My question is about referendums. The Centre Party has long stood for referendums to be held in order to decide on a much wider range of issues and for them not only to be initiated by the Riigikogu, which, indeed, as you mentioned, always senses the danger that if there is no positive response, extraordinary elections will come. How do you see referendums? You mentioned that they could be used more boldly. Do you think that the initiators could be Estonian citizens when a number of signatures have been collected, or should the amendment of the Constitution be such that the circle of subjects is expanded?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U83	For the last 25 years, I have always had the same view on this issue. In fact, the Institute of People's Initiative in its real sense should not be introduced into Estonian law. By the way, even in this petition or collective appeal act, the word 'people's initiative' refers to the procedure. It goes through there, but it has not meant a real public initiative. A genuine popular initiative is something that must be duly followed by certain consequences. My understanding is that the organisation of referendums must remain within the competence of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu must have much greater capacity to hold referendums. Indeed, it is now the case that no person, as well as the Riigikogu, must be called upon to do so. In other words, how can we hope, think and assume that the Riigikogu will happily hold more referendums than it is known that the rejection of the proposal will automatically lead to the dissolution of the Riigikogu? There is therefore no reason to expect or even demand that referendums be held more frequently in the Riigikogu. I clearly believe that this mechanism, which is enshrined in the Constitution, should be changed. The organisation of referendums should remain the decision-making power of the Riigikogu. I urge you not to introduce the popular initiative into Estonian law, because unfortunately, it seems to me that Estonian society is not yet so mature. Populism, together with manipulating social opinion at some point, can prove to be a threat to national stability, if not a threat, in any case undesirable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U84	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, it was a pleasure to finally hear a wise and sober presentation! You recommended that § 105 of the Constitution be amended. But which sections of the Constitution could be changed in the first order in order to ensure the success of state reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U86	Thank you for your question. There are certainly many of them. I didn't get a chance to talk to you about all ten of my suggestions, because I had to watch the clock all the time. My eighth commandment is that the Constitution should be resolved by the errors that are presently inside it and, in my opinion, by obvious errors. These manifest errors have developed in two ways. First of all, the ones I have to be self-critical about, and I have to shake the ashes on my head. They actually entered the text of the Constitution when it was prepared in the Assembly. Let me give you an example. At the moment, it is foreseen that if the Chancellor of Justice finds that a legislative act is contrary to the Constitution or the law, he will propose to the relevant body to bring this matter into line with the Constitution and it should take place within 20 days. At the time, we were very clear that the Estonian state must operate constantly, 24/7/365, and no one needs sleep time. Today, we know very well that certain national procedures, which have their own value, must not be done too quickly, and it simply does not allow, despite the best wishes, to comply with this 20-day deadline. I know that a number of lawyers and very authoritative lawyers have come up with a number of reasons why they think that might still be the case. In my opinion, these arguments are not convincing. If there is a norm in the Constitution that cannot, in principle, be met, it devalues the reputation and authority of the Constitution. If this is the norm, then it should simply be changed. Other such things, which I dare to call mistakes, have not been made at a particular moment, but have evolved over several periods as a result of various factual social developments. For example, we no longer have the Estonian kroon, so Eesti Pank cannot issue anything either. This constitutional line does not have much meaning in today's legal space. Such provisions in the regulations concerning Eesti Pank should also be brought into line with the actual situation. In my own view, the reform of the state has been a two-step process. The first stage is the Ten Commandments for ten years. This is the kind of work that I believe can be done on the basis of already existing expertise, expertise and an enormous amount of collected materials. There is not much additional work to do. The second stage could be the one called for by Rait Maruste. I support his point. (aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa In 1992 we had a quick constitution to complete, and with the joint efforts of many people, You should actually think about the fact that one day the Constitution will have to be updated in Estonia anyway, but now we are not in a hurry. Now this work could be done calmly, thoroughly prepared, started with experts, not politicians, and then bring these expert opinions to policy-makers for discussion and decision-making. This is one reason why I will use this very authoritative speech chair for the second time here to once again promote the re-launch of the Institute of State Law at the University of Tartu (the name of the Faculty of Law has unfortunately changed, but this institute still comes to this). I have spoken to the rector of the university on this subject, who has embraced this idea very well. University of Tartu is a national university. The only area of law in Estonia that is truly, to the end, to the full and only national is the law of the Estonian state, and therefore this law of the Estonian state, as the only branch of national law, should clearly be among the priorities of the Estonian National University. In order to carry out this potential institute's idea, there was not just enough social order in the meantime; now it has come back or is emerging. I really hope that this institute will be a very good professional partner for the Riigikogu in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U87	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U88	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, thank you for the constructive and steel report and certainly also for the leadership you have taken in justifying and explaining the reform of the state. It is likely that one of the fruits of this work has finally reached the Riigikogu, a partial package of administrative reform. My question to you is two parts. First of all, it was a very constructive way of thinking that you reflected that speaking about state reform should not become a word. When you talk about it all the time, it starts to wear off, this term and the term start to fade. My first question is this: how can you rule out such a thing? The second question concerns time frames. In what time frame do you think that the actual state reform could take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U89	Thank you. Contrary to the rhetorical assumption that you had on your question, I am very pleased that there is constant talk of state reform. The problem is that if it is spoken of for a long time in such a way that it is not defined, what it is, but it can be defined, I stress once again, only the Riigikogu, then in this case it will indeed be devalued and the actual state reform will never come. Therefore, one of my proposals and the point that I was able to make to you today is that, within a certain clear timetable, the concept and content of state reform should be defined at the level of the Riigikogu. If the members of the Riigikogu like this academic definition that I have brought here, I am delighted that it will be handled because, as I said, it has one value: it will eliminate things that do not belong to state reform. When could this reform actually take place? I am deeply convinced that quite a number of elements of the state reform require that this reform still be worthy of the name and content of the reform, of the amendment of the constitution. These changes are not easy to make. We all know that at the time, the constitution was deliberately designed to have a very serious defence mechanism of its own, the idea of which is that it should not be too easy to change the constitution. Therefore, in order to make changes to the Constitution, for example to make the Riigikogu a member of 91, even better than 71, certain procedures need to be carried out. To hope that this is happening very quickly is obviously not reasonable. I still believe that if, by the 100th anniversary of the state, the foundations of the state reform were to be achieved, which is very clearly stated, which is the content of this reform, and which are the steps and actions that need to be taken, it will be possible to realise the entire state reform as a whole by the end of the mandate of the next Riigikogu. This is my vision, but since this word is known to have a slightly different meaning in the Chinese language, I will then say in Estonian the dream.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U90	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U91	Good waitress! Dear Professor, Since Mrs Ernits said that she liked smart and sober ideas, I realized that it was my turn. I want to ask you something like that. Does Estonia still need a president's institution? So far, it was more or less okay, but do we need a president from now on? This is not just a fiscal issue; it is, in fact, a legal issue. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U92	Thank you again for a very interesting question. It is always the case that if I have to answer my teacher's questions, a little nostalgic panic will grab me, whether I will answer correctly and what Professor Gräzin, for example, who has also been my teacher, thinks of my answer. As you have noted, my so-called Ten Commandments do not concern the President's institution. There are two reasons for this. Firstly, I have not reached an agreement with myself on whether it would be wise or not to lose the President's institution in today's situation. I'm sure I can answer that to you, hoping that I can pass this exam now, that it's legally possible. All the more so, we can find examples of this not only in the practice of Estonia but also in other countries. After all, according to the constitution of 1920, we didn't have a president like that. So it's possible. Let it be noted, by the way, that the 1920 Constitution was also super-democratic. I want to call for the idea that democracy must never become so democratic that it loses its self-defence capacity, as actually happened a little with the 1920 constitution. So the first thing is that I am not yet ready to express my opinion today on whether or not this institution should be abolished. Secondly, I am inclined at the moment not to lose this institution. In my view, the President of the Republic is to a large extent a messenger and a messenger in the spirit of the current Constitution. In today's situation, where we can see that in the Occident as a whole, political space in a super-big crisis shows what will happen to it, probably the next generations will see it, creating and making the message heard is much more important than it used to be. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the President does not have special powers. That is perhaps a good thing, because it can therefore be a much more united nation than the Prime Minister, for example, because the government must also constantly make decisions that a very large part of the people simply do not like. Nothing can be done, in a sense, the government's actions are programmed to divide the population. That is simply the case, because there is never full consensus in society. In the case of the President, it is possible to assume that there is someone out there who speaks cleverly and tries to seek the consensus of political forces when it comes to really critical situations and issues. I therefore believe that, although it is not stated in the Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that the President of Estonia must be a superintelligence. This is the most important requirement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U93	Thank you for your question. As I said in my speech, as a result of the meetings of the National Reform Support Group, a very clear proposal has been made to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to take the lead and also to take responsibility for the existence of a document by autumn. I agree with you a hundred percent. In my opinion, the role of the Riigikogu could be much greater. At the moment, a strange situation has arisen where, perhaps by saying a little bit, the government tells the Riigikogu what to do. According to my understanding, it could be the opposite: the Riigikogu should tell the government how to implement our decisions. I very much hope that this proposal to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be adopted and that the situation will be a little more balanced. As far as we can see, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done so. Thank you very much to Kalle Laanet for his serious attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U94	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U95	Thank you. Dear waitress, I am very pleased that you have taken the reform of the state to heart. You can also see from the side that you're doing this with your heart. Indeed, the drafting of the content and concept of the state reform should take place primarily in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is chaired by Kalle Laane. I couldn't ask Mr. Laanet before, which is why I'm asking you. Anything allowed? Has Mr Laane been saying that, yes, the timetable you have proposed that by the end of the year this content and form should have been developed is real and supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U96	Thank you. We've had some meetings with Mr. Laanet in the support group. He has been there, in principle, expressing his personal view that this should not be a problem. But I hope that in the near future, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will also discuss it more closely at its meetings and will state its position on whether and how the proposal of the Group on Support for State Reform is feasible. I hope today is the beginning of some very big thing, and we are moving forward in action, not just in words.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U97	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U98	Dear waitress, I have never had anything against dreaming, against dreaming of an individual, or against collective dreaming. If you are talking about this, in my opinion, a relatively dreamy and perhaps very useful activity within the framework of the work of the Riigikogu, I would remind you that the Riigikogu has certain forms of work. For example, laws or decisions are passed, or there is some other possibility, and there is usually a vote. Can you tell me how the Riigikogu would perform such a work, what form and legal status it should eventually receive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U99	Thank you. I am not as competent in legal matters as you or Jüri Raidla, but my vision is, as I said, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs takes a leading role in developing the decision of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu State Reform Support Group, which I have the honour of chairing, has allowed all cooperation and assistance in this process. I am also sincerely grateful to experts who have so far helped our support group with their thoughts and ideas and who have done so in their free will and in their social order: Jüri Raidla, Ott Pärna, Raivo Vare and others. I don't think this thing should be very complicated, at least through my dreaming eyes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U100	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Looking at the proposals that have moved around here before, I dare say that there are only two things to change the constitution. One is the reduction of the composition of the Riigikogu and the second is the reorganisation of the principle of referendums. Other things do not really need a change in the Constitution; they can be done within the framework of the Constitution. When we talk about the pace, as you mentioned, and as other rapporteurs have said, the sooner the reform of the state can be implemented, the better. The amendment of the Constitution is, in any case, a very lengthy process. How can we overcome this contradiction so that the reform of the state does not go beyond the fact that the Constitution may have to be amended during the composition of the two Riigikogus, perhaps by referendum, but hardly by urgent procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U102	Thank you. I will specify so much that, by means of this timetable, we in the support group mean developing the starting points. This would not be a gift until the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, but earlier. In fact, there is now a situation where I think everyone is doing some kind of reform, without a common vision, where we are finally going. There's no deal. That is why I think it is very important that this process is as fast as possible, because at one point, for example, on the 100th anniversary of our country, we can understand that, damn it, we have already done some things too rashly, hastily and in the wrong direction. In this sense, the timetable could be faster. Of course, as far as the composition of the Riigikogu and other such matters are concerned, they take a little more time. But the idea of where we're going could be here by autumn or at least Christmas.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U103	Thank you, Tanel Winter! I apologize to Andres Metsoja and Jüri Adams, but the ten minutes to answer the questions are over! Dear Riigikogu, before we go to the negotiations, we need to make a procedural decision. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to extend the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There are 34 members of the Riigikogu in favour and 1 against, with 1 abstention. Working time has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let's start the negotiations. At the request of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I propose that representatives of the political groups take part in the negotiations first. On behalf of the Group of the Toomas Kivimägi Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U104	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Dear guest lecturer, I would like to use the word 'professor', Jüri Raidla! Ladies and gentlemen and good guests! Today it is my turn to take responsibility and to act on behalf of the Reform Party Group. On the background of yesterday, I think it is important to stress that we have such a democratic party that when speaking on behalf of the group, too, there is no need to coordinate our speech with anyone. Therefore, the following cannot be fully equated with the official position of our group. In my speech, I will focus first and foremost on sustainability in the context of expenditure. Reform of government is inevitable. Only one number would be sufficient to prove this inevitability. In Estonia, 85000 people of working age will be less in ten years' time than today. This is a reality which, given the history of our country and the attitudes of the population, would not change the most ingenious decisions we could make today. One in seven added value creators and taxpayer disappears. Secondly, the state's ability to invest from the state budget's own revenues does not meet real needs. I accept that this is not the most expected statement. But even if there is no money to build the favourite child of the parliament, Tallinn, Tartu Road Kose-Mäo section, in my opinion, this is a problem. When, then, is there hope of a breakthrough on the Tallinn-Pärnu highway, which is part of the TEN-T network, where the situation is much more dangerous than in the section of Kose-Mäo, and what is the cost of not doing so? The third very fundamental change, which requires, but also allows for a major reform of public governance, is the surge of online services in both the private and public sectors. This is supported by increased ease of use and availability of these services and by the growth of the e-generation beyond technological development. To a parish house, county government or ministry, a citizen physically has two or three times less than just ten years ago. The management guru and futurologist Charles Handy said at the management conference in Pärnu 20 years ago: 'The world has changed a lot in the last 25 years, but he intends to change even more in the next 25 years. " The 20 years since that performance, this statement has been vividly confirmed. Without fear of error, the same thought could be repeated today. The keywords of the 21st century are 'changes' and 'adaptation'. For a moment, the question was whether stability was the past. At the same time, new times and new tasks do not mean the need for a country's overhaul, as Jüri Raidla has said. These were foresighted and wise people who wrote our constitution and country code. However, a box of cosmetics is not enough to adapt to the big changes. Structural changes are inescapable, including changes in the number of public authorities and foundations. To put it plainly, the state does not need a new chief architect, but a scalpel. However, when using the latter, care must be taken not to cut too deep. I am concerned about the 8 to 1 reduction plan for the number of implementation units of the European Union's structural instruments. This was also pointed out by Anne Sulling. A big enough but more balanced step forward would also be to have three of them left instead of eight. I support this final proposal. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U105	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U106	Today, the first fruits of the state reform, the draft law on administrative reform, are on our table. More specifically, this concerns the reform of the administrative-territorial organisation of local authorities. Municipalities expect this to lead to changes in competences and funding. In this context, I present only two lines. The first one is different from Jüri Raidla's point of view. I say that the bigger and stronger the municipalities are, the less the need for a strong county level, whatever its name is. Second, it's time for the capital law. It is neither fair nor reasonable that the city of Tallinn and the municipality of Ruhnu must compete in one league. As weight categories do not match, many of the necessary and expected decisions for 212 municipalities will not be taken only because the strongest would also take the largest piece of cake at the expense of those who already lack the cake. What is to spin around here is that the increase in the share of personal income tax received by local governments is just behind it. But it urgently needs to be increased, because it is not normal for only 40 out of 213 municipalities to manage without state compensatory aid. Half of them could still survive without their hands long, in the face of the country, then they could talk about their government. Always fascinating is the reduction in the number of members of the Riigikogu. I suppose this idea doesn't have many supporters in this hall. To make this the main issue of state reform, it is an attempt to mislead the public away from the main issue. However, a reduction in the number of members of the Riigikogu, a surprise-surprise, from 101 to 91, I must admit that my meeting with Jüri Raidla in this Chamber today is not worth considering. At the same time, it would not change a single thing in the decision-making process or in the democratic rating. It'd be more of a sign. If we expect changes from everyone else, we must show that we are ready for them too. If anyone wishes to see criticism of the current government and Prime Minister, he is wrong. The administrative reform of local governments, which has been prepared for almost 20 years, is closer than ever in the last 20 years. No government has ever planned a cardinal state reform on this scale before. The point of my lines was to add justification and to give more impetus to the reform of government even more radically. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U107	Andres Herkel, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U108	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! Honourable guests! Today's debate here takes place without a textual basis. Even the waitresses weren't really known exactly what they were saying. I wasn't disappointed to ask that question. Mr. Raidla spoke of completely different things than Mr. Clothes. Pretty harali we got that thing. I guess this is the beginning of understanding when we give at least some textual basis so that we understand it the same way. As a result, I can see that if a draft decision is submitted pursuant to § 154 of the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, it will be possible to deal with this issue more specifically and to put the missing issues in it by means of proposals. I think Mr Raidla said one very beautiful sentence in itself, although it is not pretty, it is paganally accurate. This is because the government is doing undefined state reform for us at the moment. And either the critics don't want to define it or they realize that we're just going to define it differently. I'm sure it's a lot of confusion. There was also a reference to this conference called "The Wind Dragon Flight," which, I recall, was then called four cartel parties, who were injected into the concept of state reform, so that they were already using it in their election campaign. The Free Party used it, too. But I found it quite illustrative that those spokespersons for the reform of the state did not see the side that something was going on with the political system and the conditions of political competition. At the time, four political parties were invited. Fortunately, the system of four parties no longer exists in the Riigikogu. Now I come to the fact that the Free Party is undoubtedly trying to define this part of the elephant without which the elephant is not perfect. These things have so far been rejected in the Riigikogu and in several debates. These are the following. Stop overeating political parties and significantly reduce their funding. Switching to open lists so that those who get more votes and abandon the decoy ducks get a compensation mandate. Something needs to be done about the expenses of members of the Riigikogu, which could be significantly reduced and tightened up in the way they are used. However, the use of credit cards and debit cards in all public authorities needs to be adjusted. That's how simple these specific things are. These are small things, but they are great when we want to restore people's trust in the country. This is, in fact, the starting point for any reform of state administration or state reform. Now, terminology. There is also a very interesting observation. In fact, the concept of state reform is most widely used by those whose plan, in my opinion, is not the most ambitious. The concept of state reform is also included in the coalition agreement of three parties, where there are a lot of words that we analyse, think, take this area from one ministry to another. What we are doing is not clear, but we call it a grand state reform. At the same time, these plans, which go much further, have been titled more modestly, either as a reform of state administration, as the Council has done, or in any way. Now, on Mr Raidla's proposals. But just so I can deal with them, I'm gonna ask the manager for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U109	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U110	Some of them I quite agree with, and some of them I say that if I agree, I'd rather have reservations. I think that the issues of honesty, transparency and clarity of the political system and political competition are much more important. The funding of political parties is more important than whether there are 10 more or less members in the Riigikogu, but as an example step, I would not underestimate this proposal. If we really look to the future, against the background of the decline of the entire population and the decline of the working-age population, all of which is referred to here as 'demarcation', in the face of all this general distress, the steps of example must be considered by both the Riigikogu and the government. Now for the referendum. Again, I would not be able to call the speakers of this topic a priori populists, because there is also some social reason for this topic to come forward. I guess that's because too easy a hand makes decisions for which society doesn't support. That is why a referendum could be an important valve. In any case, Jaak could at least discuss the White Initiative and take it seriously, it would not be right to simply reject it. Administrative reform is a reform on which we will certainly propose amendments. It seems to me that the initiators of the reform have failed to anticipate all possible consequences. We want to draw attention to them. But some important issues have also been excluded from the focus of the reform, such as the Tallinn question referred to by the previous speaker. Our great concern is, of course, first-level democracy, communities that may be able to give some kind of expression through public authorities, but as it is now being presented, I am afraid it will certainly not work. Election issues have obviously been partially overlooked here and perhaps not all the consequences of the steps taken. They should be worked out. However, in any case, as a draft law on administrative reform, there is a specific text before us on which concrete proposals can be made. The course and procedure of this debate are, in this sense, understandable and understandable, perhaps more understandable than today's speech meeting. I would like to conclude by simply pointing out that not only the drafts submitted by the Free Party, but, I think, also by other opposition parties, have often been linked to the concept of state reform. However, unfortunately, the members of the support group led by Mr Winter, when they are in the coalition, have also rejected them coldly. That's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U111	On behalf of the Group of the Tarmo Tamm Centre Party. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U112	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The government coalition, which came into power last spring, is one of its main objectives, the idea of state reform. It is a good idea in itself, but the implementation of this reform has been delayed for years. The departure of people from the country and the decline in population also forces the country to pull itself together and to review its options. In order to give the impression of Estonia's strong development, the Reform Party has become the custom to call all its actions reforms. The Estonian people have become allergic to this word. Many, but especially rural people, have hair that rises up when another reform strikes. The consequences of the basic reforms have been disastrous for rural areas in particular. The reform of agriculture, ownership and land were essential for our re-independence country. Unfortunately, the country forgot to balance the major changes in the market economy with regional policy and the development of rural areas. The result is empty villages. More than 50000 Estonians live permanently in Finland and are in the official register of residents of that country, not to mention thousands who are not in the register. We also have several times faster urbanisation processes than elsewhere in Europe. The municipality reform promoted by the Aplomb has only been reduced to re-drawing maps, i.e. to increase the territoriality of the municipalities. The government is talking about voluntary reform, but the law doesn't give it a chance. Municipalities with fewer than 5,000 people must join. If they don't do it themselves, they'll be joined by force. If the reform has no other content, it will not improve access to services or the living environment in municipalities. First of all, the tasks of the local governments must be clarified and the way in which the performance of these tasks is covered by money can only begin to talk about reform. It must be said that poor access to public services, whether public transport, postal services, road maintenance, etc., has made life on land difficult for people. The Government of the Republic is working on anchoring the consequences of non-existent regional policy, but if there are few people in the country, then governments are not needed there. The people of Estonia have left rural areas in cities and abroad, because the country's inability economic and regional policy has made life impossible in these regions. The Centre Party is of the opinion that a change in the administrative organisation of the state should begin with the organisation of the state's central authority, in the capital, in the regions and also at the county level. A simple example of confusion. The person and municipality of Viljandi County must communicate with the state in several regional centres: for welfare in Pärnu, for forest in Jõhvi, for land and land in Tartu, etc. At the same time, the government at national level has so far put forward only the idea of concentrating the public sector: 750 jobs per year, 3000 jobs in four years. Some authorities may have a slight slap, but if cut like a cheese knife from all sides equally, public sector professionals, who have recently become scarce, may also be caught by cogs. It was particularly remarkable when the numbers were written out to hospitals, including the University of Tartu Hospital and the North Estonian Regional Hospital, where the number of services is increasing. Parade speeches, however, speak of cutting red tape and concentrating officials. In practice, three ministerial posts have been created and the Ministry of Agriculture has been renamed Ministry of Rural Affairs. What added value do these three ministers give the state, and what is the change in the name of the ministry? In essence, the rural elder's institution has become empty and meaningless. Officials working in rural governments are subject to all official regional centers, and the county elder has become the head of the private office. It lacks both the means and the right to decide on the development of the county as a whole. Why do we need such a proud name as the head of the office? In the long term, this function should have been transferred, both legally and in terms of financial resources, to the county associations of the municipalities. The same applies to promoting the development of entrepreneurship and job creation in the regions. The Estonian Centre Party considers that a comprehensive organisation of public administration at central, regional and local level must be a prerequisite and condition for administrative reform. Without it, the results of the reform are questionable. The result is likely to be even greater peripheralisation and disparities between regions. At present, the focus is solely on administrative reform. This costs the taxpayer EUR 80 million and the result is questionable. In particular, the country-wide reform should continue to focus. The Centre Party Group is ready to engage constructively in this reform. The state is thirsty for reform, but this reform must involve all public administration in a complex way, and it must not focus solely on the administrative territorial reform of municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U113	Urve Palo, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U114	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Almost ten years ago, when I had just come fresh to politics, Juku-Kalle Raid, who was doing a report at the General Song Festival, asked me for an interview. The question he asked was something like: If you compare work in government and the private sector, what does it look like? I replied that, above all, the fact that the cooperation between ministries is weak, there is competition between them and there is a competition for score collection. I brought a parallel with the private sector, where it would be unthinkable that the departments of one company would not cooperate. This would lead to bankruptcy sooner or later. I fully understand that in a situation where ministries are run by politicians whose re-election depends primarily on how many points they have collected in the public eye, it is not easy to achieve cooperation. But it's not easy in the private sector either, believe me! People have the urge to compete and to put their department's work first and better than others. In the company, the manager is responsible for the results and knows very well that the results can only be expected if there is cooperation. Who is responsible for this in the government? No one today. This person should be the Prime Minister, but having seen governments both close and far in the last ten years, I would say that this is not the case. In addition to the lack of cooperation between ministries, I see another significant weakness in our current governance. I will again bring a parallel with the private sector, where it is unthinkable that the management of the company should be given to the Finance Department, who says what employees in sales, marketing, logistics and other departments must do. However, this is the case in Estonia. Over time, the Ministry of Finance has grown into the so-called super ministry, which, figuratively speaking, forbids, commands, hangs and shoots. Decisions are made primarily on the basis of a short-term cost-benefit perspective rather than on the basis of a long-term vision and the understanding that today's costs are an investment of the day after tomorrow. Such a company, which is run by accountants, does not develop and therefore does not last long in competition. Estonia is a figurative example of the fact that the same principles apply to government administration. Therefore, I support the idea that the state needs a'main architect', a person whose duty is to see a big picture, to set common goals and to motivate ministers, together with ministries, to cooperate on this. It is clear that responsibilities must also be accompanied by rights. I therefore support Jüri Raidla's third command, which talks about giving the Prime Minister independent competence and the National Development Strategy Centre. They say if you want to win a race, run faster than the others. I argue that Estonia has long been participating in the competition, that it is participating in the competition because of its people, that they would like to live here and that they would not want to leave here, and that once they have left here, they would like to come back. Time ticks mercilessly to our detriment. A country that has been built brick by brick over the last 20 years urgently needs fresh eyes and a view from a distance, an understanding of whether and which way this building has sunk, whether the foundation still bears or needs to be strengthened. The wise always seek wisdom, the fool thinks he has found it. I hope we're smart enough to realize that life is in constant motion and change, and in fine-tuning, we get in the way of time. First we have to admit the problems, then we can start solving them. It is also important to accept that solutions create new problems. But that's the way life works. I agree with Jüri Raidla's proposal to present a gift to the Republic of Estonia for its 100th birthday... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U115	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U116	... and by then develop the foundations of state reform. First, however, the concept of state reform must be formulated and its content developed so that we all understand it in the same way. We can walk along a freeway, but if we don't know where we're going, we'll never make it. That is why it is very important to formulate a specific objective. Some wise person has said that the greatest gift of life is when we have a purpose. I believe our country deserves a dignified gift for its 100th birthday. In any case, the Social Democrats are willing to contribute to the development of this gift. We believe that state reform is essential. We stress that the aim of the state reform is not to thinen the country, but to better organise, modernise and open state governance. For example, the Minister of Enterprise has already taken steps in this direction and wishes to place business support institutions under one hat. The winner would be both operators who no longer run between different institutions and the State, which would then avoid duplication of activities. However, I do not support the Ministry of Finance's proposal to transfer several implementing units to the Ministry of Finance. Substantial decision-making should remain the competence of the content people. When we talk about openness, we mean it, and we do not want to play openness in the form of so-called inclusion events. We want to see substantive decisions that make state governance more open, whether it is a legislative amendment that leaves the unemployment benefit to employers and employers. We would also like to see a review not only of the functions and functions of public authorities but also of their location during the process of state reform. This means taking seriously the possibility of moving more public authorities' jobs to regions across Estonia. We would like to see the country run more according to the adopted development plans. This would make the work of ministries more coordinated and thought-out. At present, there is a perilous situation where a lot of time and money is spent on developing development plans, involving excellent specialists, carrying out expensive research and having countless discussions. However, since the development plans do not involve compulsory financial resources, but are mostly carried out according to the possibilities of the current year's budget, they often die as soon as they are born. It is limited to the brilliance of the Minister for Industry at the press conference after the adoption of the development plan and it will remain there. However, the development plans must be lively documents which are kept under review from time to time, where necessary, subject to changes and approved together with financial resources. Good friends! Deferral is a time robber. We don't have time. We start preparing the state reform now and give our country a beautiful and necessary gift for our 100th birthday! I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will take this work seriously, already by the end of this year, it will define the concept of state reform and develop its content. I will finish my speech with the words of George Bernard Shaw: 'A wise man adapts to the world around him, a foolish man eagerly tries to adapt the world to his own wishes. Therefore, the progress of the whole world depends on a foolish person. ' I very much hope that there are 101 stupid people in the Riigikogu who do not want to sit in the comfort zone and do not think that the Estonian state is ready, but who ask themselves every day what should be done today other than yesterday, so that tomorrow is better than today, and are ready to act on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U117	On behalf of the Group of the Helir-Valdor Seeder Fatherland and Res Publica Association. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! Because of limited time, I try to use Winston Churchill's idea that a good speech is long enough to cover the subject, but short enough to attract interest. It is not easy to talk about such a large-scale issue as the reform of state governance, which I will continue to regard as a state reform. Estonia is a small country and our resources are limited. The shrinking, ageing population, which is concentrated in a few larger centres, sets us up a difficult task of finding a sustainable solution to speed up the development of Estonia, improve the well-being of people and improve the competitiveness of the economy. The main objective of the state reform is to organise the country in the future in order to serve its citizens, to reach out to every person, regardless of where it lives, and to be able to sustain it. The need for state reform is indispensable. The demographic situation and changes in the labour market have brought to us the question of both the health insurance fund and the sustainability of the pension system. The slowdown in economic growth and exports, the loss of the advantage of cheap labour, but, at the same time, overregulation and the increase in bureaucracy have made our country awkward and overwhelming. Only the European Union's aid will help us to cope now. However, simple cuts are not the solution here, but we need new and bold solutions. The clear political will of the Riigikogu, which must be based on specific decisions, is a prerequisite for the implementation of the state reform. First of all, we have to ask ourselves whether the Riigikogu has a moral mandate to implement the reform of the state without reforming the Riigikogu itself. No, it's not! This is a question of the number of members of the Riigikogu, which deserves an honest and open debate, and it is also a question of increasing the capacity of Riigikogu committees. The main focus of the Riigikogu must be shifted from legislation to political debates and strategy papers born of them. We need less and shorter, but clearer and better laws. You don't have to regulate everything. It is the Riigikogu that must be the beginning of a legal culture aimed at reducing bureaucracy. We could start holding parliamentary hearings together with the representatives of the competent institutions and the experts' contributions. For the wider and substantive inclusion of society, it makes sense to make more use of referendums by dividing them into advisory and legally binding ones. The reform of the state should contribute to the development of a conscious democracy and to improving the image of politics. The reform of the state must be comprehensive, with a coherent approach to all levels of public administration. The draft administrative reform law submitted by the government means only partial reorganisation of the administrative division of Estonia. This must be followed by decisions on the revenue base and tasks of the municipalities and by the resolution of issues at the county level and in the metropolitan area. If anything is to be reformed, it will be thoughtful and forward-looking. Half - and - seeming solutions compromise restructuring and later disappoint people. State reform must not degenerate to the technocratic restructuring, consolidation or separation of individual agencies without achieving new quality. This principle should also be based on regional governance of the country and reforms of local authorities. Reform of the state apparatus must be based on making the public sector more effective; the number of public employees must be reduced in line with the shrinking working age population. At the same time, we must not sacrifice the regional balance or the real needy here. On the contrary, the implementation of a well-thought-out reform of the state, from the introduction of state institutions into counties to the availability of high-speed internet access throughout Estonia, should allow for more attention to be paid to the development of rural areas and the need for better access to public services. An integral part of the state reform must be the development of an e-state that is currently unavailable to many people in rural areas, such as sour grapes, due to the lack of internet access. Our e-solutions have made the functioning of the country more effective and made it easier for people to communicate with authorities. On the other hand, however, it has also boosted the bureaucracy of the state, because people have to answer all kinds of questionnaires and collect all kinds of data. The e-state must bring the country closer to the people and make it easier, not the other way around. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, we need a state reform, i.e. a renewed organisation of state and local government, which opens up new opportunities for entrepreneurship and society development through a reduction in administrative burdens and a better culture of governance. To this end, we must avoid cultivating a moderational optimism over our state-ordered progress, as if we were always the best. It's blinding. There is also unfruitful one-way and devastating criticism without any substantive proposals. Both extremes overshadow the truth and hinder a prudent assessment of the situation. The reform of the state means a joint effort which must be jointly contributed by businesses, civil society, local authorities and central authorities. However, we, the Riigikogu, retain the key role in this cooperation. That's the power to work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U119	The speeches by the political groups were over, but the negotiations are continuing. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U120	Mr President, more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U121	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U122	I guess everyone noticed that the four waitresses who were here today used the word'state reform' in a different sense. I think it's only natural that it is. At the beginning of Jüri Raidla's presentation, he quite rightly pointed out that one of the first adopters of this term, or the very first of them, was undoubtedly him, but the word went on the move, and now everyone gives it exactly what they think is right. This is the case, however, that it is not possible to monopolise the word itself, at least not by starting with the term and then trying to give it substance afterwards. Perhaps, on the contrary, if the content had been developed before and then the name had been asked, the situation would have been a little clearer. So there's a mess here. On this point, our debate on today's agenda will certainly not clarify this confusion, rather it will act as a call for both the press and the rest of society to express your opinion on what the word'state reform' should mean. It would be better and preferable, of course, if it were in the form of a call for an opinion on what should be done, no matter what name it bears. I'm talking a little bit about the confusion about the meaning of the word. I think one problem here is that which was also pointed out by the representative of the people, Tamm. This basic term is very similar to the name of a party that has been operating in Estonia for a long time and which is also very important in Parliament. That is, we have a Reform Party. I am not quite sure how and why this party made such a choice of name in its own time, but there is a certain similarity to its current term. A long-standing political person will undoubtedly have the impression that when we talk about the need for reform and we have a Reform Party, these things are linked. I have to admit, I went to school and learned my history deep in Soviet times. Then, at least in the context of Estonian history, the word'reform', which in Estonian is a foreign word with Latin origin, had developed a rather narrow field of use. The first reform in Estonia's later history took place in 1819 when serfdom was abolished. From now on, these reforms have come along a rift track, two or three in the century. The last serious change in the organisation of Estonia's life, which deserves the name of the reform, was the property reform following the restoration of independence. According to this definition, for example, the administrative-territorial merger scheme currently proposed certainly does not deserve the name of the reform, not to mention that it is an administrative reform, because administrative issues are not addressed by the scheme. As regards the merger of municipalities, it is always possible to reverse them in the event of a different political consellation and to divide them in the same way. This certainly does not fall under the name of the reform. What really happened to that word? I suggest that we have replaced the classical meaning of this word in our minds with its meaning in modern English. The problem with English is that there is no word for changes in the country or society that have been deliberately created for which work has been done. There are quite a few words in English about the changes that come from the so-called self, the flow of life, but there is no word about the deliberate change. We have now reached a point where we have given the English word to the Estonian word. There are hardly any details of state order that no one would call reform anymore. Well, let's get through this. Of course, it's confusing. Now, the second question. I just wanted to talk a little bit about the Tanel Winter report. If the end of this work should be a decision that makes sense, because the law obviously cannot be, it may also be a statement or a declaration, what would then be the content of this decision? This content should probably be the approval of some accompanying text. What would be in this text? After all, we are all on the list of political parties elected here, and all political parties have had some sort of plan of action or a programme that, to a large extent, contains a list of necessary changes. However, this is very different, for example, from the text proposed by Jüri Raidla, because political parties not only present the desired end result, but usually also the steps that need to be taken to reach this end result. As to what Jüri Raidla offers, it can be said that basically the name of this genre in history has been "utopia." Major utopias in European history include Campanella and Thomas More's utopia. These are very interesting things, but their main feature, unlike, for example, the programmes of political parties, is that they do not ask the question of how to achieve the desired result. When Tanel Talve said that there should be a joint agreement between Parliament, it reminds me of the never-fulfilling set of good wishes of the Soviet era. We all have different opinions. If this is something that 101 members of the Riigikogu agree with, then it is such a petty matter that it is not worth talking about. But if it's something bigger, there's always someone who has a completely different opinion. So let's see!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U123	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U124	Good President and few colleagues who have stayed here! Jüri Raidla recently said from this very chair that today is the start of Estonia's modernisation. But he also said that the government is engaged in undefined state reform. If the government is really doing this, we should not accept it. The content of the state reform is ours to define. Estonia is a parliamentary state where the regime is based on separation and balance of powers. We have three centres of power: legislative, executive and judicial. How are they balanced? Rait Maruste, the previous chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has said clearly: 'It is very clear that there is a tendency towards executive power. It is voluminous, over-exploited and bureaucratic. [---] Talking about the Riigikogu as a rubber stamp and court as bureaucratic, normatistic and slow has not been taken from the air. ' 'The political initiative and legislative capacity of the Riigikogu has been reduced to a minimum, in favour of the executive. In accordance with the Constitution, this should not be the case,' has been said by Maruste, emphasising the terms'recovered minimum', 'in favour of executive power' and 'in accordance with the Constitution this should not be the case'. The production of laws is going to be very fast, as we have already talked here, and we cannot talk any further. Their quality is poor: in a year and a half, 320 of 380 laws have already been amended. Indeed, before coming up with a draft law, it should have a plan to develop it. It should be clear in Estonian that the problem exists and cannot be resolved in any other way. But these five points, the five major problems of the Estonian state, should also have been considered. How will the draft help reduce emigration? How does the bill help grow ivet? How does the draft contribute to increasing the social, economic and physical security of citizens? How does the draft help improve people's well-being? How does the bill help increase people's faith in their country? Raidla suggested that the number of members of the Riigikogu could be reduced to 71 or 91 in case of emergency. I like that idea. When I was in Croatia recently, I saw that there were 150 members in the parliament of a country of 4.3 million people. According to this, 51 members would also help the Riigikogu so that 20 more members could be tightened. But Maruse said that if the number of members of the Riigikogu were to be reduced, the number of members of the committees would be reduced. He said that then decisions must be made, for example, by votes of 4: 3. But is that what we want? The lack of time will not allow me to speak further, but I still want to believe that today is the beginning of Estonia's modernisation. It's a hard day, really hard. Raidla suggested that the Prime Minister should be the head of the Estonian state. That's right. But if he carries it out, I'll ask. I ask you again whether we carry out our constitutional obligation or whether we remain a pathetic rubber stamp, we are and we will remain. We actually have the decision. We should find time and an opportunity to talk about this very seriously, because this is really a very important issue. I think that a decision should also be taken here, but it was decided in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it was not necessary. Take care!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-14_U125	There's no more calls. Thank you, George Raidla! Dear Riigikogu, I'll see you Monday! Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
