ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the 4th plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! On 25 November, Aet Maatee, a member of the Riigikogu, joined the Riigikogu in Inara Luiga. Let's hear his oath. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U4	And now that there are 101 members in the Riigikogu again, the drafts and inquiries can be handed over. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U5	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, We will set aside the text of the oath and replace the text of the inquiry, which has been prepared by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. It's about finding a lot of contraband on a mine hunter named Sakala. On 17 November 2016, the Estonian Board of Taxation and Customs discovered a large amount of untaxed secret alcohol and cigarettes from the Estonian navy mine hunter Sakala. This is not the first time that such unfortunate incidents have taken place in the Navy. I'm not gonna count them right now. In this regard, however, we want to get answers from Minister for Defence, Margus Tsahkna, to a number of five questions. They concern the conclusion, the imposition of penalties and many other irregularities in the navy. Without further ado, I will discuss this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U6	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am discussing the question with Ms Kaia Ivala, Minister for Social Protection. The subject is the intention to develop draft laws governing gender change. A few weeks ago, the media received a broad coverage of the development plan concerning the intention to amend the Civil Status Act and, in this context, the Population Register Act and the State Fees Act, in order to facilitate the possibility for certain persons to exchange their identity. It may be their right, but it always raises questions. Based on the information we know, we're going to ask five questions. First of all, 'How far has it been granted to implement the intention to develop and to prepare amendments to the laws? ' The second question: 'Why has the Ministry of Social Affairs had to deal with issues that are intended to change current practice in changing gender identity? The third question: " Based on what information does the implementation of this intention improve Estonia's international reputation? Does the current regulation not respect human rights and Estonia is violating the Convention on Human Rights? " That is what was mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. Question 4: "Which Member States of the European Union have been exemplary in reducing the regulation of the exchange of gender identity? ' And lastly, 'Which minister of the Ministry of Social Affairs coordinated this development plan first? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U8	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U9	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act, the Prisoning Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence, Margus Tsahkna. Secondly, the draft law amending the Commercial Code and related amendments to other laws concerning the location of the legal person and its board of directors or the body replacing it. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U10	I have adopted two drafts and two inquiries. We will forward them to them in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are 95 members of the Riigikogu at the plenary session, no 6. Adoption of the agenda. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U11	Thank you, good Chairman. On behalf of my party, I ask that the draft law amending the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act, which is scheduled for the 15th item on Wednesday, be removed from the agenda. Here's the problem. Whatever it may be called a tax cluster, the Commission should decide to put the draft on the agenda for the second reading of the working week in plenary after examining all the amendments and taking decisions on them, but this debate was ongoing in the Commission and the work continues. This may also pose a risk that this material will not be available to members of the Riigikogu on time. So it does not fit in with the practices that should be respected in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U12	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U13	Thank you. My colleague has a very interesting proposal, but the Group of the Social Democratic Party cannot agree with this in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U14	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U15	What is the basis for not taking this item off the agenda? The reasons I read out are still serious. The members of the Riigikogu have not been able to examine the amendments to this very extensive draft, even the Commission has not been able to do so. This does not correspond to good practices confirmed by the Riigikogu Board and before.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U16	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U17	Thank you. Actually, Michal doesn't know anything, but I'm a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I should know. This bill, in its basic mass, was presented to us essentially only for the weekend. There is a contradiction with the law, its points are rushed by the introduction, and the procedure has also been rushed. And now the bill, the content of which has not been discussed, is being sent to the hall. We're not just talking about it. Whether it is supported by the Social Democrats is not relevant at the moment, it can be expressed by a vote. The Bureau should take a position here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U18	The previous two questions were procedural. Does March Sults have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U19	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I have a procedural question. I would like to remind former ministers that they are now in the Riigikogu and that the Riigikogu is working quickly, efficiently, precisely, and also during the weekend 24/7. We don't go anywhere else to do business. [[In the diner.]] So welcome to the Riigikogu and to serve the people of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U20	March Sults, it wasn't a procedural question. I ask, honourable members of the Riigikogu, to ask procedural questions. Two of them have been there, and I'm willing to answer them. Kristen Michal, another one, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U21	Thank you, good Chairman. Once again, I ask that if the Management Board of the Riigikogu has approved the guidelines of good practice in the procedure of the draft law in the Riigikogu, which states that the commission will decide to put the draft on the agenda for the second reading of the working week of the plenary after examining all the amendments and taking decisions on them, what is the justification that this draft is on this agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U22	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U23	Is the most important factor for the procedure such as time? I would remind Mr Sults that Rakvere's neck court worked very quickly, but I do not think that the management of the Riigikogu should be guided by this. Are you proceeding from the Rakvere neck court or the interests of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U24	March Sults, do you now have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U25	I want to protect you, Mr. President-in-Office! You do not have to justify yourself before anyone except the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U26	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U27	Thank you. I have a number of legal provisions that have been violated. I think you are saying that this is a matter for the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but we must decide whether or not the law has been broken. The Committee on Monetary Affairs is led by the same person, who is also in charge of the special committee on the control of the state budget. Does the board think that this is a problem or not? Is there any way for us to monitor if the Bureau does not take a position and the coalition holds the two in its own hands?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U28	I will answer the last procedural question first. I do not know what the Special Committee on State Budget Control was like today and what the results were achieved there. I have not been informed. In general, it would be a good idea if the members of the Riigikogu were to lead a single commission, it would be manageable for them. I don't know the results of today's trial. As far as previous issues are concerned, the Riigikogu Board can draw up the agenda on the basis of proposals from committees. The board does not have the custom, nor would it make sense to interfere with your usual work in dealing with draft laws. We have no fundamental right to do so. So when the bill is on the agenda, it's on the agenda. It is the responsibility of the Bureau to draw up the weekly agenda as requested by the committees. If anyone wants to protest, there is a chance, and the Reform Party has taken advantage of this opportunity today. If someone considers that this protest is not justified, he has the right to object and, in that case, it is my duty to put the agenda of the week to a vote without amendments. The nature of the agenda will depend on the decision of the Assembly. That is, in short and clearly, the whole procedure within which I can move. Nevertheless, procedural questions follow. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your explanations are perfectly understandable from the position you are in today. However, as I recall, the Riigikogu is generally based on a certain practice. When dealing with draft laws, the management board has developed a certain practice and stated how they will be dealt with so that the members of the Riigikogu can get to know them, especially when it comes to more extensive drafts. What should the board do to ensure that established practice or practice is not violated?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U30	If the Bureau receives proposals on the weekly agenda, it has not asked the committees for further clarification. In the light of my experience as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I know earlier cases where the drafts were put on the weekly agenda and decisions were still taken at the Monday Commission meeting. Neither good lawmaking practice nor other procedural procedures have been violated. I shall not mention who were the Chairs of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in these cases. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and possibly other committees, have worked on the understanding that it is reasonable to do so. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U31	Thank you. I do not agree with this practice, but I am now specifying my previous procedural question. If we are led by the same person in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who is now making these decisions as a roller, and by the Special Committee on State Budget Control, does the Bureau think that this is a problem or could it go on like this? It's been going on for a long time. This would not be such a big problem at any other time, but there is currently a quite gross violation of practices, as well as of the law, which states when one law can enter into force, I mean this six months. If all of this is violated, we will not be able to monitor it unless the Bureau does so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U32	In the Bureau's view, this is a problem, but it must be dealt with by the Commission itself. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U33	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I won't add anything more about the contents, but I'll say a few words about the procedure. I understand your position, you're just in a very bad place right now. But I would like to remind you that there is a nice working form such as the meeting of the governing board of the Riigikogu and the chairmen of the committees. A meeting took place about six months ago, where we mainly dealt with the Presidency, but on the second item we discussed the drafting process. There you yourself pointed out that this is not good practice when the drafts being discussed in the Commission are put on the agenda of this very week's plenary. My question is: has anything in your determined attitude and principle, which you put on the hearts of all the chairmen of the Riigikogu committees some time ago, changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U34	I remember this meeting. The story was that good practice does not foresee that the second and third readings will take place one week. But that's only if there's no need for it. This need must be demonstrated by the Commission. I must also say that the second and third readings have not been in the same week at the same time. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U35	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I just have one question and one remark about this bill. Push it over or fasten it! You mentioned that the Commission would submit a proposal to the Bureau and that the Bureau would bring it to the big hall. That's right. Is it true that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has requested that the draft 302 be put to second reading before such extensive amendments were tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs? Was the moment the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposed to put the draft on the agenda for a second reading not known to the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs about the amendments that have been received to date and still to be examined? The note, however, is that if you look at the Government of the Republic Act and the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, as well as good practice, we see that the agreement is such that if the draft proposed by the Government of the Republic changes significantly, the government must shape a new position. As far as I know, the Government of the Republic has not formed a new position on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U36	Thank you for that question. I'm gonna have a problem answering. The President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs should answer how this time has gone. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are having this procedural debate here, and you referred to previous practice, which, however, compared to what the Bureau has confirmed as good practice, is not good practice. But today's practice is different from the earlier practice you referred to, because you said that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has sometimes made decisions on Monday. However, the situation now is that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not taken its decisions. In this sense, however, it is a completely new procedural practice, which in no way corresponds to the good practice confirmed by the Riigikogu Board. What do you suggest we do in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U38	I suggest you take your position on the weekly agenda. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U39	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. It seems to me that some members of the Riigikogu do not trust the Riigikogu's direction. I ask you if the agenda for this week has been approved by the Bureau. And if so, please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U40	Thank you. That's what we do. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U41	Thank you, Mr President. With your permission, I'll explain a procedure. I don't know, maybe I'm wrong. The chairman of the special committee shall be elected at the next meeting after the former chairman resigns. As it is known that the next chair of this special committee will be my colleague Jürgen Ligi, I am forced to sit down and wait for the hall to vote on this committee. Does that comply with our procedure? Is it really that I am currently holding two chairs so that Jürgen Ligi becomes chairman of this special committee in due time? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U42	I confirm that only the member of the Riigikogu who is a member of the committee can be elected as chairman of the committee. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U43	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, to reassure Tarmo Tammele, two thirds of the board is going to be replaced today. But procedurally, my explanation is as follows. The Management Board of the Riigikogu draws up the agenda of the large hall on the basis of proposals from committees and the Board of the Riigikogu expects the committees to make proposals that are in accordance with the law and good practice. In this case, the Committee on Monetary Affairs' proposal was taken into account. I have a question for the President of the Riigikogu: has there been any protests from members of the Monetary Commission that this bill has been included on the agenda? That was already known last week. Has the Bureau received any protests that the Bureau could have discussed in advance?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U44	In the meantime, no protests have been received from the Bureau on this subject. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U45	I just want to make sure I understand the manager well. There was a rumor going through here that there shouldn't be a second and third reading in the same week. Both you and several of your colleagues, such as Aivar Sõerd, can confirm that when Estonia joined the ESM, there were 40 minutes between the second and third readings. Estonia took on several billion warranty commitments and paid out 148 million, but between second and third readings it could be checked for 40 minutes. You gonna miss a week from now on, or what? I didn't understand your line. Should there be a week between second and third readings? It's been 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U46	If you look at the Rules of Procedure and other legislation of the Estonian state more closely, you will see that specific rules apply to certain procedures. These include taking on such obligations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To make it easier for us to take a position on the agenda, I have such a question. What does the Board of the Riigikogu intend to do if, at the same time tomorrow or a little later in the evening, it turns out that the Commission has not completed its work in preparing for the second reading of the draft? They couldn't do it today. Members of the Riigikogu should be given a reasonable time to examine the content of the draft, the work that the Commission has done. At the moment, however, we can see that this cannot be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U48	If the materials do not reach the members of the Riigikogu in time, it is impossible to process the draft in relation to the fact that there is no material. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U49	Thank you. In answering one previous question, the President of the Riigikogu did not know when this particular draft was already being referred to the Chamber. The Commission did so last week. A corresponding proposal was made to the Bureau shortly after that, apparently. These amendments, which are currently being discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, were sent to the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs last Friday, the day after seven o'clock in the evening. Really, yeah, 48 hours had time for people to get to know them. It would therefore make perfect sense to remove this draft from the agenda this week, as the debate on amendments in the Committee on Monetary Affairs will continue tomorrow. This can be seen as a protest by a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on which a question was put earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U50	That's most likely so. However, the Board of the Riigikogu has not received a proposal from the Committee on Monetary Affairs to remove this item from the weekly agenda. This should have been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U51	Thank you, Mr President. You are now seeing so much dissatisfaction from both coalition and opposition ambassadors that a step backwards is absolutely appropriate. But my question is whether there is a rule of some kind of force majesty or a written provision that says that Mikhail Stalnukhin must be chairman of the Finance Committee while he is chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. Is there some kind of coercion? How did he get involved in the role of Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has now given rise to a clear problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U52	Honourable member of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi, the committees are formed by name on the basis of a decision taken by the Riigikogu. The chairman of the committee shall be elected by the members of that committee. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U53	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. May I ask procedurally that you give the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs permission to use the microphone to answer my two questions? Firstly, did they make a request for a second reading before the amendments came? I ask this for the sake of the verbatim, so that in the future it is known to everyone. Secondly, has the Government of the Republic issued a position on those amendments which so greatly amend the draft 302?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U54	According to the rules, I can answer procedural questions. In fact, it does not matter when the Commission took that decision. If, in the meantime, the Commission concludes that the draft procedure should be removed from the agenda for this week, it will propose it. By the way, everyone in the Chamber has the right to protest against this proposal, even if it is proposed by the Commission. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U55	Dear Chairman, thank you. Wouldn't it make more sense to take the chairman's break and discuss it with the Committee on Monetary Affairs? I'm sure everyone will actually understand that this bill is extremely voluminous. The members of the Committee on Finance say that they have not made any progress in the examination of the amendments. It's Monday. Perhaps, as Andres Herkel thought, it will take more time. We are changing the tax system and all the finances quite thoroughly, but we have not yet seen the draft on paper. I think it would be practical to convene the Committee on Monetary Affairs or at least to discuss with the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs how such a draft can be on the plenary agenda if we do not have its materials and amendments. We in this Chamber have not been able to read it; the Members of the Commission are in the process of working.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U56	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U57	There is one thing in which the coalition and the opposition currently have absolutely one opinion and, unfortunately, are opposed to the President. Indeed, we all agree that we are dealing with a real conflict of interest. No one has broken the law, but there is a conflict of interest. What is the function of the Chairman of the Riigikogu in real conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U58	The function of the Chairman of the Riigikogu is, as usual, to see that members of the Riigikogu can do their work. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U59	Thank you, good Chairman. When the new coalition took office, great words were made about a new political culture, a new style, open governance, involvement. Now we can see that the roller has been turned on faster than ever before. The first tax cluster has been launched, there is no plan for development, there is no impact analysis, there is no inclusion. The members of the Riigikogu do not even have one working day to examine these amendments. Is this the new political style that is being cultivated?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U60	Thank you, Arto Aas! It was really beautiful. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U61	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, you said a very nice sentence: your task is to see that members of the Riigikogu can do their work. I will now describe how the Committee on Monetary Affairs is doing its work. These amendments were sent on Friday evening, the amendments were examined today in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and will continue tomorrow. At the same time, has the debate on a specific draft been put in place, or did I interrupt? On the Wednesday's agenda. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] These proposals have not been discussed by the Committee on Finance. How does all this go into line with your desire and the aim of ensuring that members of the Riigikogu can do their job?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U62	If the draft is not ready for second reading on Wednesday, this reading will not take place. It's as simple as that. It rarely happens, but it's happened here. It all depends on how the Committee on Monetary Affairs does it. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U63	Thank you. My question is, how long is a reasonable time? You said that if the draft was not ready to be processed, it would be taken off the agenda. People's ambassadors must have time to examine the content of the draft. I understand that its contents will be revealed first thing tomorrow night. How long, then, is this reasonable time for such a large draft to be examined and for a position to be formed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U64	It's very simple. The Committee on Finance has requested that the deadline for amendments to the draft be extended until tomorrow night in order to bring it to the Chamber. If they're not here tomorrow night, then we can't discuss them on Wednesday. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U65	Honourable Chairman! I would like to ask what is stopping you from announcing a Bureau break to discuss this situation separately. Indeed, as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I can only confirm that these extensive amendments were received after the Committee on Monetary Affairs put its proposals on the agenda. In today's meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we were able to review only a small part of the proposals that arrived at 7:30 on Friday night. Thirdly, indeed, the government has not taken a position on these major changes either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U66	Thank you. Nothing's gonna stop me. I'd take that break with my heart if it made any sense. I would like to apologise to Mr Holsmer for addressing my adviser during his question, who went and asked the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs whether it was worth taking a break. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission replied that he did not. Everything is very simple! I can take a break, of course. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U67	Thank you, Mr President. I want to pick up where Aivar Sõerd ended up. You need an oral or written protest from several members of the Monetary Committee on this draft to take a break from the board and also invite Helir-Valdor Seeder to meet one more time before he is replaced and discuss the drafting of the Riigikogu agenda? After all, today the situation is that the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not complete the procedure on this draft during its scheduled working time, i.e. one o'clock. Time was fully filled in at the hearing. When would they have been able to protest and propose to exclude this week from the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U68	I am happy to answer that question. The first option would have been to decide at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the draft is not on this week's agenda. The second option, if the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not decided this and the chairman of the committee does not consider it necessary to take a break, will be when we place the week on the agenda. Those are the odds. We could meet with Helir-Valdor Seeder and discuss the matter, but we could conclude that we had no choice but to put this draft on the agenda for the week, just as we did. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U69	Thank you, good manager. During the years I have been here, you have given me the impression of the person who has been most concerned about the reputation of the Riigikogu. In words. Now that you have the opportunity to save the Riigikogu's reputation a little in action, you will fail to do so. After all, the chairman's break would actually mean that you and Helir-Valdor Seeder could really discuss the new facts that have become apparent here in the last half hour. You didn't know before that the amendments had not been discussed. It would also be an opportunity to give time for reflection to the new coalition, which has not seen this bill in the same way. I'm not just talking about the opposition. Right now we are actually putting the entire Riigikogu in a bad position and we must use this word that we do not want to use: it is this infamous rubber stamp. But you're making us do this right now. Please take the manager's break! Discuss this matter and remove the draft from the agenda so that we can really make a substantive assessment of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U70	Thank you, Valdo Randpere, for your good words. I honestly admit that I have been very often told to say something in the interests of the good reputation of the Riigikogu, but I cannot do it unfortunately. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U71	Thank you, good Chairman. I would rather ask from this perspective that, if we look at this whole cluster of taxes, if I may say so, or a large bill with a number of things connected together, it is likely that there will be provisions in this draft that will give rise to later legal disputes. As a liberal, I think that even if someone has a different opinion, they have the right to take that opinion. I do not support tax increases, but I think the wrong thing should not be allowed to do the Riigikogu in the wrong way. As Chairman of the Riigikogu, you should certainly discuss this situation with the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, procedural problems, such as the conflict with good practice confirmed by the Riigikogu Board, can give the power to declare this law void, at least in part. We acknowledge that this shame will then be left to the Estonian state and the Riigikogu. We could hold the Riigikogu for that, so maybe it would make sense to discuss it during a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U72	Thank you for that question. I have the same concern, but with this draft, I do not see anything with which we would violate procedural practices. If the Commission starts making decisions in some strange way, there is a danger, but I do not see that danger at the moment. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U73	Thank you. Your advisor turned to the Chairman of the Monetary Commission. In any case, as Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I support the President taking a break and talking to all the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and shaping the position so that time should be taken off when dealing with this draft. As you yourself have just admitted, there are procedural problems. The Committee on Finance did not really decide today to withdraw the draft from the agenda, but you cannot rely solely on the assessment of the committee chairman. Procedural problems are and I ask them to take them seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U74	Dear Riigikogu, March Sults has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U75	Thank you. I have a very pleasant procedure: I would like to inform everyone that the Reform Party has very well read the verbatim reports of the speeches of the representatives of the Centre Party. When the Centre Party took the floor on the Spring Reform Party's cluster law...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U76	This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U77	I wanted to compliment you, it was the procedure. In general, it is very difficult to congratulate the Reform Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U78	This can also be done without the procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I propose that the agenda for the 10th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu be approved. Please take a stand and vote. There are 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, 44 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U79	Dear Riigikogu, let's go to the agenda. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] According to § 9 (2) (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the mandate of the Deputy Chairman of the Riigikogu, Jüri Ratas, has ended as a member of the Riigikogu and, in accordance with § 6 (2), we need to conduct extraordinary elections of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. I remind you, good members of the Riigikogu, that according to § 69 of the Constitution, the Riigikogu elects two vice-chairmen from among its members and the vice-chairmen are elected simultaneously. In organising elections, the Election Committee of the Republic follows the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. We welcome the Republic Election Commission here, I haven't seen you in a long time! Before going to the election procedures, let me briefly introduce the election of vice-chairmen. A member of the Riigikogu may appoint a candidate. The proposed person must consent to the application. Voting shall be by secret procedure and shall be carried out by means of a ballot paper. Each member of the Riigikogu shall have one vote in the election of Vice-Chairs. The votes shall be taken publicly as soon as the vote is closed. Objections to the organisation of the vote shall be submitted to the selection panel immediately after the end of the vote and the result of the vote, without delay after the result of the vote has been announced. The result of the election shall be announced immediately after the possible protests have been examined. The two candidates who have received the most votes will be vice-chairmen of the Riigikogu. The first Vice-Chairman shall be the candidate who has received more votes and the second shall be the candidate by the number of votes received as Vice-Chairman. An additional round of elections shall be organised among the votes gathered equally. I will introduce the voting procedure to you before the vote is announced. Are there any questions about what has been said about the election of vice presidents so far? No, it's not. Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu, does anyone wish to set up a candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu? Please come to the speaker's desk and do it! Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U80	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! From the party of the Reform Party, I will be nominated as Vice-Chairman of Taavi Rõivas. To the credit of Taavi, he has a very long parliamentary experience and also a unique Prime Minister's experience in Estonia, at least in this parliamentary composition. This means that this is a person who adds weight to Parliament in both external communication and internal communication, and he also has the knowledge that is definitely needed on the Board of the Riigikogu. In addition, he will certainly keep an eye on all the drafts being dealt with in accordance with good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U81	Member of the Riigikogu Taavi Rõivas, do you agree to apply as Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U82	Yeah, and it's an honor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U83	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U84	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I propose Enn Eesmaa as the candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Enn has worked in the Riigikogu for 13 years. He is a very good and valued member of the Riigikogu. I think that Ennu will be a very dignified vice-president of the Riigikogu. So please support Ennu! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U85	Enn Eesmaa, Member of the Riigikogu, do you agree to apply as Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U86	Thanks for asking. Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U87	Any other suggestions? No, it's not. I would also ask the candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu to give written consent to their application! Dear Riigikogu, I close the list of candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. I declare a break for the nominations to be entered on the ballot paper. I'll give you a signal when the break's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U88	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready to elect Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu. Members of the Commission will check the ballot box and seal it with a security seal right here in front of you. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In case anyone doesn't know yet, I'll introduce you to the voting procedure. The Election Committee gives a voting slip to a member of the Riigikogu. I ask the members of the Riigikogu to submit their identity document, i.e. the certificate, passport, identity card or driving licence of a member of the Riigikogu, to the electoral body for voting papers. A member of the Riigikogu shall sign a ballot paper. The ballot papers shall be filled in in the voting booth. A member of the Riigikogu shall tick a cell with a cross on the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he or she votes for. Voting ballots which bear the name of more than one candidate or which do not bear the name of any candidate shall be deemed invalid. Voting is organised in the lobby next to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. You will leave the back door of the voting room, there are tables in the lobby where you will receive a ballot paper. After receiving the ballot paper, you will make your decision in the voting booth, fold the ballot paper and go to the voting box where, after the ballot paper has been stamped, you will personally put your ballot paper in the ballot box. If you have accidentally erred or violated the ballot paper and notice it before the note is placed in the ballot box, you have the right to receive a new ballot paper when the corrupt note is returned. Any questions? There are no questions. At the time of the election, only members of the electoral committee and persons serving the electoral committee may be present in the voting room of members of the Riigikogu. According to § 87 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, members of the Riigikogu have 30 minutes to vote from the beginning of the voting. It's 3:59 now, in 30 minutes, she'll be 4:29. I give a signal of the end of the vote, after which I ask all members of the Riigikogu to gather back in the Chamber. I declare the vote on the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U89	Honourable Riigikogu, I declare the vote closed in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Please bring the ballot box to the hall! Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of voting? There are no protests. First of all, I would ask the electoral commission to check whether the security seal in the ballot box is intact. Thank you! I would ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes and I would ask you to read them publicly. Please, Vice President of the Electoral Commission, Airi Mikli!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U90	Honourable Riigikogu! I am here to make a public check that the initial result corresponds to reality. I will read the names of the candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu and the votes they give. Taavi Clothes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 43. Enn Eesmaa: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50. Lashed notes: 1, 2, 3. Both cells are filled in with a cross on two sheets and neither cell is filled in on one note.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U91	Honourable Riigikogu, I announce the result of voting in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Protocol on the result of voting on the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu: 'The Election Committee of the Republic determined the following figures when counting the votes. The number of members of the Riigikogu included on the list is 101. The number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballot paper was 96. The number of members of the Riigikogu who took part in the vote was 96. Number of voting notes that have not been filled out.3. Number of votes cast on the candidates for the vice-presidents of the Riigikogu: Number of votes cast by Taavi Rõivas. 43, Number of votes cast by Enn Eesmaa. 50. The Protocol was drawn up on 5 December 2016. ' Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about determining the result of voting? There are no protests. In that case, please complete the decision of the Election Commission. Dear Riigikogu, I declare the election result in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. On the basis of subsections 7 (6) and 82 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Election Committee of the Republic decides to declare Enn Eesmaa elected as the first Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and Taavi Rõivas as the second Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu have been elected. I'll take 30 minutes to congratulate the vice presidents and also for the press conference. We'll proceed at 5:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U92	Honourable Riigikogu! According to the agenda, we will begin to respond to inquiries. The first question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Ain Lutsep, Krista Aru, Külliiki Kübarsep, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel and Andres Ammas. On behalf of the heirs, Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U93	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Mr. Secretary of Defense! The subject of the inquiry submitted by seven members of the Free Party is the efficiency and transparency of defence costs. This year, Estonia spends 2.17% of GDP on national defence, which is a considerable contribution, especially compared to the contribution of most other NATO countries. This means that we have reached the limit of our capabilities in terms of the size of our defence costs. Effectiveness has been achieved in Estonia in the field of internal security, bringing together the Border Guard, Police and Migration Board, and the Rescue Board's redundancies in several other areas. The defence sector has been out of this list so far, as this area has rightly been considered to be of particular importance for the security of Estonia. The security situation has called for effective military cooperation with partners and the strengthening of independent defence capabilities. At present, Estonia has the opportunity to critically review all defence activities and find places where money has been used inefficiently or inefficiently, and to direct this money specifically to improve training, equipment and motivation for defence forces and to upgrade armaments. In this context, the Free Party has six issues concerning the National Defence Investment Centre, the use of Defence Forces vehicles, the properties of the Defence Forces, their energy efficiency, internal audit of the Ministry of Defence and the preparation for a possible audit of the National Audit Office, as well as human resources policy and the salaries of the Defence Forces personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U94	Defence Minister Margus Tsahkna will answer the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U95	Dear Chairman, Good Riigikogu! I would like to thank the Free Party for its questions to Minister for Defence Hannes Hanso. As the time has passed, as the new Minister of Defense, I will answer your questions. To begin with, you have rightly pointed out that this year the Estonian state will spend 2.17% of GDP on defence costs. Indeed, our spending even above 2% is an important contribution in the eyes of our international allies, but I also agree that this is not enough. Next year it is planned to allocate more than 2.2% of GDP to defence expenditure, and we have agreed in the new government's action plan that 2% of GDP to defence expenditure is a landmark that will not be changed. In addition to the necessary expenditure to receive our allies, and in addition to the investment programme agreed in the government's action plan, which will have to start in 2018 for three years. Its total volume is now estimated at EUR 315 million and of the size of 60 million it is intended to be allocated specifically to defence investments. This should make a significant contribution to increasing real defence capabilities. I will now answer your written questions in order and, after that, I will also be ready to answer the questions that arise in this Chamber. The good questioners first asked the following question: 'The National Defence Investment Centre, which is starting its new year's activities, will carry out the procurement and management of real estate by the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Forces and other authorities in the realm of government. How do you see the role of the new authority in ensuring the efficiency, transparency and legitimacy of defence expenditure? ' In the field of defence, or the Ministry of Defence, the volume of procurement has increased considerably over the last few years and will increase further in the coming years, as I said in the introduction. For example, in 2010, EUR 57.3 million was spent on investments and procurement of special defence equipment, while by 2020 the forecast is already close to EUR 200 million. So growth is significant, and that also means that the organisation of all work, the organisation of procurement, its monitoring, transparency is of the utmost importance. The same applies to infrastructure. For example, the maintenance costs of the properties of the Ministry of Defence's administration were EUR 9.8 million in 2010, and already EUR 16 million in 2016. This shows that we have invested heavily in infrastructure and have contributed at all, but the cost of maintaining it has also increased greatly. This is what we have to do and what really contributes to increasing our defence capabilities. The Ministry of Defence is one of the three largest real estate managers in the state next to the RKAS and the Ministry of the Environment and therefore needs a central thought-out infrastructure policy. The long-term objectives of defence have also become more ambitious. In a situation where new military capabilities are created and existing ones are renewed, the ability of the government to cope with all necessary support activities is essential. In order to ensure effective support and transparency and legitimacy of procurement for the Defence Forces within the limits of available resources, the Ministry of Defence decided to concentrate procurement and infrastructure management in a single authority. As of 1 January 2017, the Ministry of Defence and the relevant departments and sub-offices of the Defence Forces Support Command conducted the procurement independently. It brings together the expertise and experience of both the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces. In our opinion, this will help to ensure that procurement is carried out on a standard basis and that the same principles are followed. The joint body to be set up will harmonise the level of procurement and real estate management specialists, allow better training and increase the qualifications of staff. The areas of procurement and administration have grown in volume and become much more complex. In order to ensure that they function effectively, a separate structure is needed with highly qualified staff who guarantee the legitimacy, efficiency and, crucially, transparency of procurement. Bringing together the provision of knowledge and services in a single institution in the future will also help to avoid duplication within the scope of government, with the same subject being dealt with simultaneously in different entities. It is very important that the development plan for the next ten years and the corresponding methodology are given as an overall picture of investments and other costs. And this methodology, which has been applied, shows not only the completion of one or the other of the necessary infrastructure, object or investment, but also what it will actually cost in the run, which is its function and its efficiency. In this sense, spending on defence resources has become increasingly 'non-object-based' every day. In particular, the function, the costs involved and the feasibility of the system as a whole have been taken into account. So an increase in this kind of professionalism is essential. The second question: 'How much administrative savings will this institution be created and how will it be protected from influencing its governance scheme (internal control, etc.)? " In the coming years, the volume of procurement will grow almost half, as I have already told you, but the number of people involved will remain the same. As of now, we have planned that 130 people will work at the National Defence Investment Centre. So while the volumes are growing, we don't see any additional human resources there. But capacity is increasing, qualification is increasing and the whole base of experience is being put to work as a '1 + 1 = 3 idea'. Therefore, in order to ensure long-term savings, it is important to increase the efficiency of work and to increase the qualifications and competence of workers so that existing staff can cope with the ever-increasing volumes of procurement. Changes within the Ministry of Defence will also contribute to more efficient investment management. In particular, according to the decision taken in June 2016, as of 1 January 2017, the position of Deputy Secretary-General for Defence Investments will be abolished and the three departments of the Ministry will be merged into one Defence Investment Department. Minimising the impact of employees and ensuring the transparency of procurements will be ensured by the following steps in the Ministry of Defence's area of administration. All staff shall undergo a security check before taking up their duties. Most positions also require a state secret permit, which is issued by the Defence Police Department. The Defence Investment Centre is audited by the Auditor of the Ministry of Defence and the National Audit Office. The Centre is supervised by the Ministry's Defence Investment Department, which also develops an investment policy and organises continuous reporting and coordination activities. The third question: 'The Defence Forces have hundreds of vehicles that can be used not only for exercises and strictly for service journeys. What problems do you see in the field of Defence Forces transport, how is fuel and vehicle use reporting ensured, and whether vehicle operation procedures and the whole park need revision? ' In addition to the obligations arising from the laws and regulations, the Commander of the Defence Forces has regulated the use and management of vehicles within the Defence Forces with two major documents: the rules for the use of land vehicles and the rules for the storage of land vehicles. Internal rules also provide for reporting formats and frequency. Each structural unit shall record the use of vehicles daily in the operating arrangements. Vehicles not in service shall not be allowed to leave the territory of the Defence Forces. The operating arrangements shall reflect the intended time of use, route and user. For each vehicle in use, a journey form shall be issued to which the user is obliged to bear the date, time, journey, vehicle hodometer reading, name and signature before departure and after departure. All tankings of the vehicle shall be entered on the journey form: they shall bear the date, quantity and name of the tanker and shall be signed. The fuel consumption shall be calculated on the basis of the journey forms. Each brand and model of the vehicle shall be subject to a fuel control cost limit, above which the reasons for the higher cost shall be identified. On the basis of the data from the journey forms, a monthly summary of the use of the structural unit's vehicles shall be drawn up on a vehicle-by-vehicle basis. At the end of the year, the data shall be aggregated by vehicle and by unit. In addition, the National Audit Office carried out a comprehensive audit of the management of vehicles of ministries 2015. The results of the audit were good until 2005 and were positive. Question 4: 'Defendant has a lot of real estate. Is there an energy efficiency programme that enables buildings belonging to the Defence Forces to operate more effectively? What other inefficiencies do you see in real estate management, and how do you solve them? 'The design of infrastructure for new sites in the Defence Forces is one of the conditions for compliance with energy efficiency requirements. New buildings completed in recent years are significantly more economical and energy efficient than those completed in previous years. Infrastructures for existing buildings have also been analysed and identified, and their energy efficiency needs to be improved. The order in which the buildings will be renovated will be decided on the basis of medium- and long-term development plans and the savings resulting from the reconstruction of the buildings. Priority shall be given to buildings in which investment increases user comforts most. I would also like to highlight one plan, which shows that innovation is also being considered in the field of defence: in order to use renewable energy, it is planned to establish a solar park in the Defence Forces Tapa campus as a larger project. It's a different approach. One of the challenges in the area of real estate management is the monitoring of the quality of the services covered by contracts. The deployment of buildings with ever-smarter technical systems and automation sets higher requirements for staff responsible for the maintenance of buildings. As a solution, the structure of the National Defence Investment Centre includes posts for infrastructure maintenance and supervision specialists whose task is to ensure the quality and efficiency of the services provided to the Defence Forces. We are making a series of investments with regard to the adoption of our allies' units. They also concern new barracks. Their projects are very modern, innovative and their construction is also seen elsewhere. The solutions are very effective Excuse me, should I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U96	The Rules of Procedure do not provide for any additional time, but the MPs have always been very willing to cooperate with the minister responsible for the inquiry if he is in trouble within the 15 minutes prescribed for him. You can continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U97	I'm gonna finish up faster now because there's six questions. Question 5: How do you assess the quality of internal audit of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence? Do you consider the internal audit capability sufficient and is the defence area ready for audit by the National Audit Office? 'Yes, the defence field is always ready for the annual audit of the National Audit Office and has been done. The National Audit Office has been controlling the field of defence since 1992, so since the last century, and the audit reports are on the website of the National Audit Office. The internal audit capability of the Ministry of Defence is generally sufficient; the Department is also very much supported by the Internal Audit Department of the Defence Forces. At the same time, this department is not the only one who carries out controls in the field of defence, it is generally the case that each of the following entities which consumes information and reports controls the activities of the previous unit. Question 6: How do you assess the human resources policy of defence agencies? What places can be concentrated without compromising the defence capacity to contribute to raising the pay levels of active troops? Do you consider the employees' salaries to be competitive at the moment? ' In short, the National Defence Development Plan 2013 was to provide for an increase of at least 50 persons each year in the number of Defence Forces and Defence League active troops needed to develop military capabilities. This has also been done to the best of its ability, and not just for the purpose of 50 people to be present, but also for the purpose of reviewing plans to increase competence and real capacity. As far as motivation is concerned, a survey of motivation and satisfaction of the people working in the Ministry of Defence's area of government in 2015 showed that the satisfaction and commitment of the employees of the Ministry of Defence's area of government is greatest among Estonian civil servants.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U98	Thank you, Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna! There are no time limits for answering questions, so you can tell us everything that's left of your heart. Now the questions of the members of the Riigikogu. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U99	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! You talked about the Defence Forces Development Plan and that running costs are increasing, that we are investing very innovatively in the objects needed by our allies. There are about 55 million investments in the national defence budget. However, the sad story is that, according to the current development plan, spending this large amount, or EUR 55 million, does not increase the capacity. Armoured manoeuvrability, coastal defence capabilities, anti-aircraft capabilities will remain the way we have them. So where does the money go, just to the allies, or are they just gonna get scrambled? What do we get for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U100	Thank you, good questioner! You are also a member of the National Defence Commission and you are certainly... Oh, I'm sorry, Helme Senior is. This ten-year development plan has also been discussed in the Committee on National Defence, and it quite accurately states which capabilities must be developed as a matter of priority. The most important thing right now is ammo, everything else goes according to plan. It is certainly not the case that these 50-55 million euros will somehow be scattered. We have a very clear plan, the principle of which is firstly to develop independent defence capabilities, which is what the Estonian Defence Forces themselves do. It is a critical time for itself to endure. Secondly, in addition to this 2%, it has been decided to cover the costs of accepting the allies. It must indeed be confirmed that in order to better organise Estonian national defence, a little more foreign troops will be expected next year, who will come with their equipment. In fact, 1,100 British combat group troops arrive in Estonia and this places additional burdens on our shoulders. But we have decided to allocate this money. I would like to emphasise here in front of the Chamber of Riigikogu the excellent political achievement that no political group in the Riigikogu has challenged the need to contribute at least 2% of GDP to national defence. This 2% of GDP gives us confidence and ensures that allies can regard us as a properly contributing country. At the same time, we need to look at what our development plans are, what are the nominal needs that are recorded in these plans. If the economy does not grow enough, i.e. as expected, then the country will be able to contribute less in nominal terms. I therefore consider it crucial that, in addition to 2%, we have also agreed to cover the costs of receiving allies. There is also a public investment programme, of which pretty much defence investments reserved under the political agreement to increase real defence capabilities. This is where I mean most of all ammo.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U101	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I ask you, in the form of a question, to answer the part that was not answered from the last question. But just so my question doesn't come to that, one more thought development. You said somehow that the National Defence Investment Centre was necessary to ensure the efficiency and transparency of procurement and to reduce duplication. By saying so, you admit that there have been problems with these things. If so, what kind? Do you see in the future the National Audit Office also play a greater role in keeping a better eye on defence matters? We have been very busy in this 2% and that is correct, but we have not paid much attention to the efficiency of using this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U103	Thank you, good questioner! I will answer the final part of this question and then your question on the necessity of creating the National Defence Investment Centre and the role of the National Audit Office. In the last question, it has been asked whether I consider the salaries of the active troops to be competitive and which places can be concentrated without prejudice to defence capabilities so that the salaries of the active troops can be increased. First of all, the Ministry of Defence, or the civilian side, has undergone structural changes, which I have also briefly introduced to you, but there have been further changes. The average basic salary of an active soldier is 1430 euros, which is 20.3 per cent higher than the average salary of Estonia. That's the level we want to keep. The current assessment is that with this salary, we will be able to motivate and actually get a good level of active force into this position. As regards the civil servants required to support the activities of the Defence Forces active troops, the development plan reduced the number of these posts from 1253 in 2012 to the current 1070, i.e. roughly 200 seats. The number of hired guards in the Defence League was also reduced by nearly 100 in 2015 and 2016 and the money released from it was directed to increase the payroll fund of the Defence League's active troops. In other words, according to previous policies, the necessary points have been found and the available resources are aimed at increasing the salaries of the active troops and, therefore, the actual defence capabilities. Now for your supplementary question. After all, this analysis, carried out by both the Ministry and the Defence Forces, shows that since we have a common understanding of the plans concerning the next four and the next ten years, it makes sense to merge these various institutions into one of the National Defence Investment Centers. I am not going to give any concrete examples here, because we have not had any very big stories. In terms of planning, however, it is better that the entire competence is in one place when the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces act together as one fist. I consider it very important that we do not make individual stand-alone purchases, but that the whole vision is concentrated in a very specific plan, and that this plan is implemented from the acquisition of clothing, footwear, anything up to the head coverings, not to mention more complex procurements concerning arms. As far as the National Audit Office is concerned, the National Audit Office has continuously audited this area, as I have already said. The National Audit Office must also ask how it feels about the matter. However, my gut tells me that transparency is increasing and the National Audit Office is better placed to carry out its own audits if everything is grouped into a single unit with a clear structure and working on the basis of a single plan, as will be the National Defence Investment Centre. I also appreciate that the National Centre for Defence Investments, which will be operational on 1 January 2017, will lead to the clear traceability of taxpayers' money for defence purposes, as it has basically been so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U104	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U105	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Colleagues from the Free Party are concerned about the transparency and auditing of defence procurement. For obvious reasons, the entire information on the procurement of the Defence Forces is not public, as the public does not need to know how much we buy 120-millimeter mortars or 155 steaks. But here's my question. A few years ago, there was such a problem that the employees of the National Audit Office should have had a state secret permit to control the Defence Forces. How is this solved now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U106	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, this issue has been raised, but it must be done as required by the law. State secrets will be known by those who have been subject to a background check and have been granted a certain level of state secret authorisation. There's nothing to argue about. If there are certain topics that require a state secret permit to be investigated, depending on what subject it is, the National Audit Office official must have the relevant authorisation. I don't see the basis for a big argument here. I think that people who, for example, are going to audit the National Defence Investment Centre will definitely be granted these permits. This requirement must certainly be complied with. The information must be in safe hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U107	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The broad-based concept of national defence requires greater cooperation between ministries and other authorities. Is there an increased cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior in order to make better use of resources and avoid inter-agency rivalry, which currently exists to some extent, in maritime surveillance, for example, as well as border protection, cyberspace and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U109	Thank you, good questioner! In my new position, I have more or less made the first round for everything, and I have also met face to face with the commanders of the Navy and other units. I don't actually see this rivalry, but rather I recognise all these very different units and their cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. We still have one of those fists, it's not like we're developing our own defence capabilities in the Defence Forces and somewhere in the ministries, and there's also the Police and Border Guard Board somewhere. All the opportunities we have are being exploited together. If you go back to the National Defence Investment Centre, there will be a "contact point" where procurement and all kinds of plans can be reviewed together. I'd rather consider this whole situation to be good. The different structures coordinate everything that is planned and done. I'll give you a simple comparison from my previous office. In the social field, related cooperation between municipalities and the state was not actually possible, for example in the performance of educational tasks. I want to say that the area of internal security and state defence capabilities, as well as the way in which we communicate with our allies outside Estonia, is still very well coordinated. I don't see any fundamental disagreements or rivalry there. Today's questions were mainly about Estonia's defence capabilities, but in my introduction I also touched on internal security. This is an issue that needs to be analysed in a comprehensive way, as the comprehensive security strategy envisages. At present, I see no rivalry between people and institutions that should be resolved in any way in public relations. Rather, it is a question of resources and the ability to plan. But in the field of security, this skill is still very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U110	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U111	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You said you'd been able to walk around a little bit and get to know different units. What is your assessment of the current situation? Do we have a popular professional military position in Estonia? Is there competition for these positions, or is anyone who feels urged to do the work happy? What do you think the staff situation is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U112	I have already said that the plan has been to raise 50 active troops a year and that there have been various reforms in recent years. My assessment is that the position of a military officer is honored. These men and women who serve and work do so not only because the wages are higher than the average, but also because they understand very well why this work needs to be done. Estonia is a unique country and everyone's contribution is needed. I take advantage of the opportunity to thank all the defence forces, all the defence allies and the people in the reserve who, for example, took part in the very short notice exercise in Okas. The fact that we received 88% of our units manned at such short notice that men and women came out of the reserve and participated in this exercise on the weekend shows that people in the reserve are also prepared to appear after an unexpected invitation, even at less than 24 hours' notice. In fact, the desire for protection in society is reflected in the fact that people want to come to serve. In recent years, the Estonian state has also contributed a great deal to providing social security to the defence forces as well as to their loved ones. I will specifically emphasise what has been done with the implementation of the veteran policy in recent years. It is a position of excellence in society, as well as a teaching profession. But there is also a need for purely tangible assistance in this area, which is certainly one of the priorities of this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U113	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Estonia has a share of the NATO transport plane C-17, for which we receive 45 hours of flight time a year and which costs 600 million euros in total. It is claimed that this investment is not justified because we simply do not have any use for this aircraft, especially recently. It is planned for 25 years, and now perhaps a third of it is over and probably a third of the money has already been paid. Is it true that we really don't have any use for this plane and it's wasted money? If so, do we intend to step out of this project and use this money to do more essential things?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U115	Thank you, good questioner! I am not making any assessment here of the decisions that have been made. In our new ten-year development plan, all expenditure has certainly been thought out precisely from the point of view that each eurocent has been used as much as possible to increase our defence capacity and to use all resources in a way that is fit for purpose. If it is okay with the questioner, I will specify this particular question and agree to answer in writing. I am not going to comment on issues that I do not have any closer information about right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U116	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Finland has proposed to Estonia to participate in the joint procurement of cannons. What is our position now, and would it bring us considerable financial savings while significantly increasing our defence capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U118	Thank you. So much I can say that joint procurement is one of the issues we take very seriously as a small country. If we are to make an investment or obtain military equipment, it is wise to look at whom we can do something under similar conditions and jointly. So we take the issue of Finland very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U119	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U120	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! In your answers, you said that the use of Defence Forces cars and fuel is subject to very strict rules and that it has been repeatedly audited. Did these audits reveal any irregularities? In fact, it has come to our ears that it is with fuel that defence personnel are quite free to walk around and that there is no very strong control over it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U121	Thank you. There are certainly misuses in every system, and when they come out, the Defence Forces are a place where these things are taken very seriously. One function of the National Defence Investment Centre is also the management and control of all its assets. I think it will bring more transparency in this area. I can say that, compared to the situation a few years ago, the situation has improved considerably and that major systemic violations have not occurred. But as in any major system, there may be misuses in the Defence Forces, but they are reacting specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U122	Thank you, Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U123	Next on our agenda is the question of the members of the Riigikogu, Henn Põlleaasa, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U124	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! We have an inquiry into Estonian shipguards arrested in India three years ago and accused two years ago, accused of illegal fuel refueling, illegal arms handling and illegal entry into territorial waters. We are all convinced that the charges are unfounded, but this process has been dragging on for many years and our men are still in Indian prison. That is why we asked five questions in October. In the meantime, there have been certain developments and movements, but we still want answers to these questions. What is the situation of men now, and what has the Estonian state and, more specifically, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs done to resolve the situation, to release men from accusations and to bring them home to Estonia? I am not going to read the exact questions, the Minister has them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U125	Foreign Minister Sven Mikser will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear members of the Riigikogu and respected heirs! The members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry to which I have the honour to reply today. a on October 18, when the detention of marine guards was completed for three years. A total of five questions are included in the inquiry, some of which are somewhat repeated in their content. Question number one: What is the current state of affairs? What has the State Department done in the last few months to get the ship's guards to come home? " Today, we are in the country that one year passes on January 11th the sentence of a conviction by the ship's guards in an Indian court. As I said, it's been more than three years since the ship's guards were apprehended. This time has certainly been extremely difficult for both detained shipguards and their loved ones here in Estonia. For us, the most important discussion of an appeal decision brought by shipguards at the Court of Appeal is now. This decision was issued shortly after the men's conviction on 27 January this year. This debate was due to begin in June, but for various reasons, the first substantive hearings took place only in November. The last substantive debate took place only a few days ago, 29.30. on 1 November, when all the parties were able to submit their evidence, arguments and objections. When the debate was closed, the court went to consult. The court did not notify the day on which the decision was declared. We hope, of course, that this decision will come as soon as possible, without unnecessary delays. The question, however, was about the last few months. In the second half of this year, we have, of course, kept this subject constantly focused, as we have in all previous months and years. During the summer, Foreign Minister Marina Kaljurand made two phone calls with the Foreign Minister of India and other foreign ministers have addressed India eight times by letter. All the high representatives of the Estonian state have raised this issue at any level in their meetings with the Indian party. This was done, for example, by the previous Prime Minister, when he met the Indian Vice-President in July, in August Annely Kolk, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when he met representatives of both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when visiting India. The topic of shipguards was also raised this summer at inter-ministerial political consultations in Tallinn. Our new ambassador, Riho Kruuv, in India, also spoke about the problem during and after the handover of credentials at several meetings in New Delhi and Tamil Nadu. In September, when the Indian Minister of IT and Justice, Prasad, visited Estonia, he discussed the subject both with our Minister of Justice and at a meeting with the President. These are the meetings that have taken place in recent months, where the issue has been raised. The second question is: 'The Government approved the draft agreement between Estonia and India on the exchange of criminal criminals and the transfer of prisoners on 7 July 2016. According to Foreign Minister Marina Kaljuranna, it was prepared at the beginning of the year. How far is the signing of the agreement between Estonia and Inda? " It is certainly important here to draw attention to the fact that the Treaty has been referred to somewhat misleadingly. This is an agreement on the transfer of persons who have been prosecuted, not an agreement on the exchange of criminals or prisoners. There has been a certain development of this agreement and the agreement was signed on 15 November. On behalf of Estonia, it was signed by our Ambassador in India. The agreement will enter into force once it has been ratified. I will also take the third question straight away: 'Do you think that bringing shipguards home will solve the situation if, in accordance with the agreement, they have to bear their punishment in India at home? ' I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is, of course, a generic agreement that is not based on a 'one case' but covers all situations where convicted persons may be brought to their home country for punishment. This agreement allows, in the event of the entry into force of a conviction and at the request of the sentenced person, and, of course, with the agreement of both countries, the person to be served in the State of which he is a national. However, as Estonian citizens' shipguards have appealed against their conviction, the existence of this agreement does not change much. At the moment, our priority, as has been said, is the substantive, fair and immediate processing of an appeal lodged by shipguards. That's what we're focusing on right now. Question 4: "What is it going to do to get Estonian citizens who have been wrongly convicted to freedom and get rid of criminal charges? " As has been said, a conviction has been appealed. At the same time as the lawyers of the ship's defences brought an appeal to the higher court of the Serpenturai, they also applied for bail, to which the court replied no in February. This means that it was decided not to release the ship's guards against bail. The way in which the appeal has been dealt with so far was already discussed. Of course, the Ministry of Defence also raises this issue in every possible way. We cannot interfere with the trial or directly influence the conduct or absence of sittings. Our priority is for the Indian authorities to be as familiar as possible with this case, but more specifically for the trial to take place without delay and legally. They did not ask about this, but of course, in addition to contacts with the Indian authorities and raising this issue in bilateral communication with shipguards, Estonia will provide all possible consular assistance. Information has been constantly exchanged with shipguards themselves as well as with their loved ones in their home country. There have been nine meetings with family members at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the level of the consul or ambassador, more than 20 times have been met by the ship's guards themselves. It has been helped to mediate their personal statements and correspondence. We have tried to contribute as much as possible to the resolution of their health and domestic concerns, including their bail during their stay at large. So we have also offered consular assistance and we will continue to try to offer it. The last question: 'Do and to what extent have there been cooperation with countries whose citizens have been convicted of the same case? What assistance has been requested or received from the European Union? ' Since, in this same case, not only Estonian citizens but also Indian citizens, British citizens and also Ukrainian citizens are in the same situation, we have, of course, also worked with other countries, particularly the United Kingdom. While visiting India, Prime Minister Theresa May of the United Kingdom, he raised the need to resolve this case quickly at his meetings. Before that, we asked the representatives of the United Kingdom to speak on our behalf at these meetings as well. This is, of course, the direction we will continue in. The European Union has also given us moral and, above all, political support, as consular assistance is still the responsibility of the Member States. But also, for example, the High Representative of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, has raised this issue in his meetings with representatives of India. That's the state of affairs right now. Thank you once again for raising this very burning question. I am happy to respond to your supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U127	Questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Has our consul or other officials had the opportunity to make sure that our citizens are guaranteed human rights and normal living conditions in accordance with international agreements?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U129	Thank you. As I said, the consul and the ambassador have met men on several occasions. We have also tried to help them to solve domestic problems and health concerns in the framework of consular assistance. Of course, we will keep ourselves informed through our consular diplomats and, if necessary, we will be ready to act if any problems require further intervention. I repeat, the focus of the attention of the Estonian state and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in particular that the trial should take place without unnecessary delay and that it would be legitimate and fair. Estonian citizens must be treated with dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U130	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U131	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that on our side, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been busy dealing with these issues. But what are the views of the Indian authorities? What have they proposed to resolve this issue? It seems that only the court in India is dealing with the matter and waiting for the judgments to come. Does the GOI, for its part, propose anything, such as any agreements or other solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U132	Thank you. As in Estonia, the government is not expected to interfere in the work of the court in India. According to the principle of separation of powers, the Court of Justice is independent of other branches of power in its judgments and complies with the laws of its country. As I said, our priority is for the trial to take place legally. We'll keep an eye on that one. As far as cooperation with the Indian Government is concerned, as I said, we will raise this issue at all meetings in all possible cases. There were questions about the contractual base in your inquiry, and we've been working on that. But right now, the procedure is at this stage that men have been convicted at one instance, they have appealed this decision and it is being processed. As has been said, the Estonian state cannot and must not intervene directly in the trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U133	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U134	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. There is no doubt that the ship's defence process is a huge disgrace to both India and, in fact, Estonia. Every minister who's been in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a while is directly responsible for this. What is your plan of action as a freshly appointed minister? What could be three or five concrete steps to bring our people home? And what's the prognosis for how long are they gonna be there? What do you need to do or what's your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U135	Thank you. I have already answered that question. As has been said, at political level, both bilaterally with India and in cooperation with "fate partners," particularly the United Kingdom, as well as at European Union level meetings with representatives of the Indian authorities, this issue must be constantly raised. This is necessary to ensure that the mill is not overly slow. The trial should be as quick as possible in India. Of course, it is not possible for us from Estonia to influence when the Indian court will make its decisions, but it is certainly possible to keep this subject focused. We can also offer consular assistance to our citizens, which is, of course, the duty of the Estonian state and the duty of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a competent government institution. We can do all that. However, I cannot and must not give you any dateable promises because the lawyers of the ship's guards have filed an appeal, which is being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U136	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U137	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Indeed, this shipguard story is an unpleasant story that has been going on for three years. It is possible that the solution will come when the time of their imprisonment is full, but that would be a very poor option. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs remembers offering the captives some kind of loan facility, zero loan, or what's the right thing to say. Has such a thing been used, or have the family who live here been assisted by other means?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U138	In particular, those living here have been sought to assist with the provision of information, morally helping them in their undoubtedly very difficult condition. As regards the unsecured loan, it was granted to men when they were on bail in order to be able to pay their accommodation costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U139	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In answer to the question of what the terms of the detainees are, you confirmed that if anything new becomes known, there would be intervention. But my question was more specific: are the conditions for holding them normal? And are they in any way comparable to the conditions in which UK citizens are kept? Are all prisoners in a similar situation, or what? Maybe you'll light it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U141	Thank you. I am not going to fantasize at the moment whether the conditions for the detention of Estonian citizens differ in any way from those of UK citizens who have been convicted of the same case. But I promise you, if this information is available to us, I will certainly get it and forward it to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U142	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U143	Honourable waitress! I agree 100% with the legal aspects you mentioned. Everything you've said is right. That's it. But there is one moral aspect that Artur actually touched. Maybe you don't know yet, and I don't know, but can there be any promises made by the State Department? In this very hall, one of your predecessors promised that, oh, we'd go and do it. Firstly, such an argument is already absurd in nature, but it is also incredibly unethical. If a public official makes a promise that cannot be fulfilled, and that person is a minister, then it's tough. We don't have any more promises like that with our own people, do we?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U144	Despite the fact that my five or six predecessors have been from your party, I can assure you that they have not made promises that would create false expectations in people about the outcome of processes over which the Estonian state does not have control. If such promises were made, it would be very regrettable. At the same time, I understand when people are looking for confirmation of hopes to see their loved ones as soon as possible. Perhaps they have interpreted some of the answers, which have been given rather vaguely, as some kind of promise. But I do not know that promises have been made on behalf of the Estonian state, which the Estonian state cannot fulfil. Certainly my predecessors have confirmed, and I also assure you that the Estonian state will do everything that depends on us to ensure that this case can be completed as soon as possible and as positively as possible for Estonian citizens. But I pointed out earlier and again that the Indian court is still in the hands of a decision. The ship's guards themselves have decided to challenge the conviction and the appeal court will deal with this application.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U145	Thank you, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U146	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the political group, and also of the party of the Free Party, Artur! There was now another opposition ambassador. I did not really intend to speak, but the Minister's last lines of no promises made made to me did. Indeed, when the Foreign Minister was Marina Kaljurand and answered the same question, she did not make any promises directly, but it was extremely optimistic that the question could be resolved in the near future and bring the men home. He promised all kinds of cooperation and assistance to both his family and the ship's guards. However, as an observer, I have the impression that these were relatively uncoverable promises. Our efforts have not been sufficiently effective. According to my fellow member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Marina Kaljurand even said so in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but the idea was that, after all, this is the business of this private company, not so much our business. We all know that the protection of our citizens, whatever the situation these citizens are in, is, however, not only a legal but also a moral obligation for each country. Yes, we have received information that this company, which these young men were in the service of, has done things before that aren't pure as a spectacle stone. Yes, they may have let us somewhere across the corner this time, but as an observer, I am amazed that we have not found the resources to (a) be present diplomatically at all times and to ensure that the human and civil rights of our men are 100% guaranteed; (b) be sure that their legal expenses are guaranteed and that under no circumstances can there be such a situation as seeking cheaper lawyers or exchanging lawyers, whatever; and (c) to grant them a loan. However, as a country, we could be generous and, through their relatives, give them not credit, but targeted support until they come home. Finally. It seems a little strange to me that this attitude, which is, of course, absolutely right in the rule of law, is that we cannot interfere in the trial and therefore we cannot do anything about it. We know very well that there are various opportunities for both political and diplomatic pressure. It seems to me that our diplomatic and political pressure has been rather such a mosquito. We have not used forcefully either those instruments that could, in principle, be used within the framework of the European Union, or those that could be used for coordinated action, particularly with the help of Britain and Ukraine. It's possible that I'm hurting our State Department officials. It's possible, I admit. I'm not that familiar with these things. However, I would stress that, by following this process aside for several years, I have had this impression, and I just wanted to say that a former colleague of the Riigikogu, who has recently taken up office as ministers, would reflect on these perhaps not the most correct and adequate but still thought-provoking views of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U147	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U148	A good minister and also a friend, a neighbor and so on! I'm talking about it. Look at the problem. The European Union's position is that terrorists, and so on, are warm people who are wrong. They are good people, we must raise them, and we will bring them to the true faith. That's what they are. That is how the European Union has dealt with this matter, and that is their right. I'm saying the opposite. Terrorism is today's plague. Terrorism is a crime. Terrorist is not lost, he is an anti-human criminal. What does that mean? It follows that the other half of the human race, who are not terrorists, must mobilise all resources to fight them. These resources are military, intelligence, etc., etc. But this includes the private security services provided by the ship's guards. Yes, they are, to some extent or to some extent, criminals. But do we understand what happened back there? We have created this situation in the world's seas, and we have tolerated that they, terrorists, dominate certain areas. For our part, we take honest, correct, cultural people who perform certain operations. There's no way to ship protection without guns. By the way, do we know how a regular security company is importing weapons into and out of Estonia? You try and get it! Our laws treat a shipguard and a gunman as a terrorist, but a terrorist we treat as a fallen angel. I mean, something's wrong here! The Indian case places the focus on the status of private armed companies in international waters when they fight terrorism. And if these boys were wrong and broke the law, let's not forget they're on this side of the barricade! They're ours, they fought for good, they fought for trade and shipping, they fought for peaceful seas. These are our men! Have we understood the very simple question? So if the security company, the ship's guard, wants to operate, how do we even bring weapons in here, how do we check it out, and so on? This is a very large gap in international law, a private struggle against terrorism. I don't think we should leave ours behind in this fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U149	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to negotiate. Mr. Secretary, do you have a wish? No, it's not. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-05_U150	Free mike. There are no requests to speak. I'll see you tomorrow! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 6.29 p.m.
