ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Mr President Arnold Rüütel! Excellencys, guests, members of the government! We will begin the Monday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Colleagues do not wish to pass on drafts and enquiries. Let's keep going. Requesting presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, to clarify the agenda. First, by agreement between the parties to the proceedings and the addressees, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas will answer inquiries No 236 including 17 October, the inquiry of the Minister for the Interior Hanno Pevkur on 24 October and the inquiry of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal on 239 and 243 inclusive on 17 October. These enquiries were scheduled for today's agenda items Nos 2, 4, 7 and 8. Secondly, the Committee on Culture has proposed to remove the first item on the agenda of this week's Tuesday sitting, the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act 245. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is in front of you. I shall put to the vote the adoption of this week's agenda with the above-mentioned clarifications. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the agenda, and there were no respondents or people who were in favour of the agenda. The agenda is confirmed. Ladies and gentlemen, We'll wait for the President of the Republic and the elected President to arrive, and then we'll move on to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! Dear President of the Republic of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves and his wife! Dear President Kersti Kaljulaid and his wife! Mr President Arnold Rüütel! Prime Minister, ministers, Excellencys, guests! Ladies and gentlemen! We will begin the ceremony of the President of the Republic of Estonia. Mr President, Mr Hendrik Ilves, I would like to ask you to attend the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U3	Dear Estonian people here and around the world! Respectable Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic! Excellencys! Good elected president! Ladies and gentlemen! Friends! Ten years ago, I took an oath from this very chair and repeated it five years later. This oath implements the continuity of the President's people, our state and culture, our constitutional order and its protection. The Estonian Constitution, as an agreement between the Estonian people, has endured the challenges well. The recent process of electing the President, which has offered many conflicting emotions, was, at the very least, the Grimass of democracy, nothing more, as one of my predecessors used to say. The fact that it took longer does not reduce the weight of the consensus reached one ounce a week ago. It doesn't stagnate the outcome, it doesn't cast a shadow on the elected president. Finally, the Riigikogu elected the next president to Estonia exactly as the founders of the Constitution wished just as party egoism lost and the broad-based agreement won. The President is one of the characters in the equation of the balance of our democratic order. The most important place in this is the highest authority, the elected Riigikogu of the people, you have here in this hall, ladies and gentlemen. You will appoint a government which, on the basis of the laws and guidelines given by the Riigikogu, organises the day-to-day life of Estonia. An independent judicial system rules justice. The Chancellor of Justice will ensure that everyone's constitutional rights are protected. The National Audit Office ensures that our common property is not abused. This balancing system stands, among other things, for any branch of power, institution or person, including the President, not to be given excessive power at the expense of others. This balance mechanism must be maintained and protected. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not taking stock of what I did today. I do not formulate a political will because a living society and a living person do not need milestones with such a dark sign. Instead, I invite you all to look forward boldly and to understand the opportunities and role of Estonia in the big world. The President swears an oath before the Riigikogu to the people of Estonia. Which is why I want to thank all the people who have helped Estonia to develop and grow in the last ten years. The President alone can't do anything. Everything he does and achieves is born thanks to people who cherish Estonia. Before I leave this chair, I thank Estonia again for the opportunity to serve my country. It's been all these jobs I've been holding over the years, my greatest happiness, my greatest honor. Especially in the last decade. I would like you to now share your support and support for the next President, Kersti Kaljulaid. Madam President, I congratulate you on behalf of the entire Estonian people. I wish you determination and continuous energy to stand up for Estonia at home and beyond. But now, good compatriots, in a few minutes, when I pass on the chain of office of the President of the Republic to Kersti Kaljulaid, I become a common citizen, with all their duties, but also the rights that every citizen has. And that's how my words run out. Except for two: live Estonia! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U4	But life goes on. A new president's oath. Elected President Kersti Kaljulaid, I ask you to take an oath of office before the Riigikogu before the people of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U5	By taking office as President of the Republic, I, Kersti Kaljulaid, make a solemn promise to defend the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Estonia without vanquishing, to use the power given to me fairly and impartially, and to faithfully perform my duties in behalf of all the people of Estonia and the Republic of Estonia, with all their abilities and best understanding. [[Let's hear it.]] [[Hirvo Surva's leading young male choir The Song of the Awakening Song will sing the anthem of the Republic of Estonia.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U6	President of the Republic of Estonia Kersti Kaljulaid, I congratulate you on behalf of the Riigikogu and I would like to ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U7	Mr President, thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic! Excellencys! Ladies and gentlemen, good people of Estonia! 25 years ago, the Republic of Estonia was restored in this very hall. We now have a country that is a democracy in the 21st century. This includes the contribution of all Estonian people regardless of their place of residence, their place of residence or their place of residence. Today, children are born for whom the occupation is in the memories of their grandparents. Free Estonian grandchildren. I'm thinking about these kids today, and I'm thinking about those kids today. How few of these children really are! In less than fifteen thousand Estonian homes, a baby gnaws in a crib. Roundly, a hundred thousand are pre-schoolers who cuddle their parents in the mornings. There are hundreds of millions in the world. Our responsibility is those hundred thousand and their older siblings. A child's sincere faith in the goodness of the whole world will inevitably disappear as he grows. It is up to us to keep children's faith in Estonia, in ourselves and in the future. All those in this Chamber have sworn, in one way or another, to remain faithful to our constitutional order. This means acknowledging that common values are higher than daily arguments and self-interest. In our own activities, we create the framework for what freedom, justice and justice mean in Estonia. We, and only we, can keep their balance in addition to the separation of powers. Our attitudes, attitudes, and actions depend on whether the people feel like the highest authority. We determine whether the growing generations believe in Estonia and themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to acknowledge all of my predecessors here before you, because they have each been great in their own time to take Lennart Meri Estonia to the West, Arnold Rüütel to bring Europe to the people and Toomas Hendrik Ilves to send Estonia to the cyber world. In today's highly complex world, with a low level of information density, we have Estonia, which is both stable and constantly changing and searching for new goals. We have an education faith in a society in which schoolchildren make eye contact with older people almost all over the world. We have health care, where we can sometimes complain about one thing or another, but the life expectancy has increased steadily. We have our culture, it's just ours, which connects us to the bond of flowers. We have our own language, which, in the wind of song, can search for eternity as we ascend to heaven. We have a society where diverse communities are increasingly important. People with different interests and goals contribute together and themselves to making their dreams come true. This is the Estonia we wanted. 25 years ago we sang Estonia free together. The weight of the early years made everyone work alone. Now we're back in circles. We have a civil society in Estonia, which we are promoting together. Of course, our daily expectations are no longer as simple and as clear. Independence is no longer an objective, but simply a prerequisite. An open world is no longer a dream, it's just an opportunity. That's why we're now working as communities, as settlers, as choirs, as schools' ministers. Together, we will improve our lives and all together we will promote Estonia. Everyone creates the kind of Estonia he wants, and we all get together. Good listeners! Unfortunately, this does not mean that Estonia's situation is carefree and we could focus on keeping what we have achieved. For those born of freedom, the self-determination, security and freedoms of our small country are self-evident. They're not. Each garden grows grass if it is not cared for or maintained. Our population is ageing and shrinking. The dependence of people on how far they live from Tallinn or Tartu is a cause for concern. We're at the top of the rankings where it's better to be among the latter. There are processes in our neighbourhood that, to put it mildly, are worrying. We cannot choose this age or the world in which we live. But we have a choice as to how we view the surrounding and the surrounding. Do we see them as fellow workers in common business or as competitors in the promotion of private interests? If we see competitors, we will inevitably start looking for mistakes and lose sight of the good. It won't do us any good to know everyone's weaknesses to the last detail. This is how we destroy confidence. Faith in yourself is a prerequisite for development and success and an important foundation. These little kids I'm thinking about standing here today, they're confident. They have tremendous faith in us, but they have just as much faith in themselves. Let's keep that faith! Confident people build businesses, raise happy children in the role of parents or teachers, compete for science grants, create and maintain culture and bring medals from sports competitions. People who fear that someone at home, at school, or in the newspaper is enjoying their weaknesses do not move our lives forward. No perfects, no infallibles, but there aren't really those who have no strong points at all. People who know that they have a public shame for every mistake will lose the courage to make decisions. Estonia can only be developed by supporting one another. The Constitution is not merely a legal set of paragraphs. The Constitution gives us values to guide us. Those who share these values are full members of society. Even if they were in any way different from us or we were acting differently in some context. Let's keep our values! Estonia did not become rich in the last century, when it took many natural resources to become rich, and this resulted in significant environmental damage. Fortunately, we have this opportunity now that prosperity and prosperity come from education and entrepreneurial courage. In addition to self-confidence, we must provide education for our children. It is their most important tool for them to build the future for their children. Henry Ford already stated that the employer did not pay the salary, but would mediate the salary. Salary costs the product and today more and more service. What can be an Estonian product or service that takes into account the circumstances and opportunities here and allows for international success? It's not one big Nokia, it's a lot of products and services that depend on the skills and dreams of the maker. They can only be created with smart work, and this is the freedom and responsibility of entrepreneurs. The responsibility of the state is education. And the simplicity and freedom of the undertaking. The President of a democratic and parliamentary state cannot himself create an environment that supports self-confidence, is fair and preserves it. That's why I'm addressing you. The President can be a demanding phraser so that our children and grandchildren and their children are constantly on the agenda. The President's responsibility is the Estonia of children and grandchildren. Estonia of confident, educated and healthy people. Inevitably, it follows that the President must be where it is difficult. He must uphold his word with strength and the dignity of his office to those who may otherwise be sidelined. It is the President's job to recall that an ethical state must offer strong opportunities and support to the weak. An ethical state gives people self-confidence and thus strengthens themselves. This is the country of the people. A higher power can be a people who feel that their leaders are in his service. The leader of the 21st century creates the environment and the prerequisites. The leader of the 21st century does not tell or forbid. He encourages action and recognizes the result. But in the 21st century, the countries that do not forget the future are successful. Countries that remember and set long-term goals. In our age, when morning thinks it's smarter than evening just because everything yesterday has already been forgotten, it's much harder than it's ever been. But it's our job to be in this room tonight. The confidence and courage of our children and grandchildren. Their education. Their health. The health and well-being of our parents. Our concern for our parents, which today shows our children how to care for us when they grow up. We in this Chamber must encourage dreaming and support the fulfillment of dreams. When dreams break, pick up the pieces. Be supportive when there is little or no light at the end of the tunnel. I believe and hope that in five years' time, Estonia will have more understanding and less condemnation than today. More helping, more courage and less fear. Franklin Delano Roosevelt said in 1933 his famous sentence: "The only thing to fear is fear itself. " This sentence has been sending me for almost 20 years since I found it at the Roosevelt Monument in Washington. Roosevelt said so in his inauguration speech. There was an economic crisis. He added: "It is good that the problems of American society are mainly economic. " Estonia's problems are never just economic. Neither were Americans, and perhaps President Roosevelt knew that, even though he didn't say it at the time. Our strength is that we are very direct. We say clearly that our biggest problem is never the economy. Our biggest problem is always security. Yes, we have our allies, with whom we share common values and who have helped to make Estonia's independence stronger than it has ever been in history. We keep our allies and listen to their concerns! But let's never forget that the responsibility for maintaining statehood always starts with us. We ourselves must have confidence and faith that we can always, every day, keep the Estonian state. The most important key to Estonia's security is also largely in the free, self-confident Estonian people who work together with others. The role of the Defence League in our basic defence documents has increased considerably. This is also a sign of the development of civil society. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a spirit of cooperation in this hall today. There is much more spirit of cooperation outside this hall. We are talking too little about things that are self-evident lately - our dreams about better Estonia, grandchildren Estonia and their children Estonia. Time is ticking, and the future will indeed come even if we do not think about it every day. But today's good and courageous decisions ensure that the future is much more likely to hold on to the hope of our cradles. From knee to knee, just like the Constitution says. We're holding Estonia! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U8	Thank you, Madam President. That is the end of the President's inauguration ceremony.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the chairman's break of 15 minutes so that the governing board of the Riigikogu and the chairmen of the political groups can congratulate the president who has resigned and the President who has taken office. Break 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U10	Ladies and gentlemen, The chairman's break is over, and we're moving on to today's agenda. First of all, an inquiry has been submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Kersti Sarapuu, Valeri Korbi, Anneli Oti, Tarmo Tamme, Märt Sults, Siret Kotka and Viktor Vassilyev concerning the receipt of excise duties on diesel fuel. The inquiry has been submitted to Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. On behalf of the inquisitors, please speak to Kadri Samson!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At a time when three quarters of the Riigikogu have gone to celebrate the inauguration of a new President, I have reason to bring us back to everyday life. Our question relates to the fact that next year, as on 1 January of the following year, the government in office is planning to increase the excise duty rate on both petrol and diesel. This is not just one line in the Excel table, where cash flows into the state budget without limit. By quoting our newly sworn president: this is one of the policies that makes people depend on how far they live from Tallinn or Tartu. Longer distances are inevitably needed to carry out all vital activities in remote areas. These people are directly affected by this increase in excise duty. We are in a situation where the government says that excise duties have been received even more than planned. But let's see how the fuel excise has been collected! At the beginning of the year, stocks were purchased and indeed, in the first two months, excise duty was very good. From there, the collection of excise duties on petrol remained better than it was in the same months last year. This shows that the 10% increase in excise duties did indeed work in the way that people did not reduce consumption. On the contrary, diesel took place. Just last month, I have data from August, and September has not yet arrived at the figures for the same month last year. This clearly shows that very many Estonian companies using diesel have found a way to stock up their fuel not from Estonia anymore, but from countries where it is cheaper to stock up. Thus, Estonia not only loses the planned excise duty, but also reduces the amounts of other taxes, in particular VAT. On the other hand, it is important that those who supply diesel fuel in Estonia are in a much worse competitive situation than Latvian suppliers. Last year the excise duty rate on diesel in Estonia was 18% higher than in Latvia, this year it is already 31.4% higher than in Latvia. And if next year we have another 10% increase in excise duties on diesel and, according to my data, Latvia does not plan to increase excise duties on diesel at the beginning of next year, the difference will increase to 44.6%. This means a problem for Estonian entrepreneurs whose competitiveness is deteriorating. This means a problem for people who have had to experience initially unnoticed and then have already quietly become noticeable in the price increase, which is shared between everyone, not only between those who use public transport or a private car. It is passed on to most prices. Consequently, we would like answers from the Prime Minister to three questions that I will not read to you, because the Prime Minister himself will probably be able to read the questions and then give the answers to a smoother question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U12	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question to Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer your questions. The first question is why transport companies should refuel their vehicles in Estonia if the difference in the price of diesel is 15 euro cents per litre in favour of Latvia. For example, as of 30 May, it cost 93.8 euro cents a litre in Riga Statoil and 1 euro 10 cents a litre in Tallinn. It has been a government-aware policy that we are lowering labour taxes, increasing the taxation of vices and pollution, and improving the livelihood of families. The idea of government tax rulings is simple: our people must have more money for themselves and for their families, especially for children. It is not appropriate to compare the highest price in one country and the lowest price in another. I can give you a little bit more recent information than the May data you referred to. On 3 October, for example, the average difference in the price of diesel fuel per litre compared to Latvia was about half as much, i.e. 8.5 euro cents. And that's the average spread. If you look at different filling stations in Tallinn, you can also find price differences ranging from six to some days to even eight euro cents. In essence, however, these are rather small spreads. I'm sure you know that the purpose of excise duty is not just fiscal. We want to increase the relative price of certain groups of goods, in particular in order to have the incentive to reduce consumption that harms health and the environment. The differences between fuel prices and tax receipts are constantly being monitored, and this year's nine months on which we can make decisions do not show that decisions should be radically changed. On the contrary, I also claim today that shifting the tax burden from people's income to harmful consumption, whether fuel, tobacco or alcohol, makes sense both in economic policy and in public health. According to the latest estimates of excise duties, fuel excise duties amounted to EUR 44.8 million in September, which is 12.6% more than in September last year. Overall, 364.8 million euros have been received in nine months, or 13.9% more than last year. 74.5% of the budget has been implemented. At the same time, the revenue from excise duties exceeds the expectations of the state budget by EUR 8 million. The government is also aware of the fact that many companies in Estonia who are engaged in international transport are remaining tanks in Russia, Latvia, Lithuania or Poland before the increase in excise duty, for example, where the price of diesel has been somewhat cheaper for years. We must take into account that those who transport goods to different countries have done and will continue to do so before and in the future, most likely to buy their fuel from the country on its route where it is most advantageous. The second question: "How do you think transport companies that fuel in Estonia should be competitive in the transport sector? " Competitiveness really depends on more things than input prices and purchasing power. It is also important that the company is productively able to manage. And if we compare different inputs both to transport companies and to many other companies, compared to our southern neighbours, we can say that the most important input, or labour price, is significantly higher. In other words, people's income in Estonia is much higher than in Latvia. This is good news for the people of Estonia, and entrepreneurs must inevitably take this into account, that labour costs in Estonia are higher than in Latvia. For example, the average wage in Latvia was 838 euros in the second quarter of this year, and 1163 euros in Estonia. In essence, the 40% pay gap reflects, of course, the greater purchasing power of people and allows companies operating in the internal market to charge a slightly higher price for their services and goods. In addition, when assessing competitiveness, it is important to know that Latvian transport companies have to pay the toll on heavy goods vehicles, as well as Latvian companies are obliged to pay higher VAT than in Estonia. Looking at the development of the fuel market, fuel prices are actually more than a third cheaper than they were a few years ago. Today, the price of diesel in Estonia is even less than euro in some places, mostly between EUR 1 and EUR 1.05. I would remind you that a few years ago, the fuel record price was over EUR 1 and 40 cents. We are still talking about the low fuel price, and therefore, I believe there is no reason to talk about the fact that this euro- or slightly more-paying fuel has caused serious difficulties for transport companies. In addition, in order to improve the competitiveness of transport companies, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has developed amendments to the Road Transport Act, which are in the interministerial coordination circle. I hope that these proposals will reach Parliament at the end of this year. The proposed amendments are intended to strengthen the principles of fair competition, to make freight transport on the road safer and to harmonise the requirements relating to licences for the carriage of goods by road. Your third question: "What moment does the government intend to review the increases in excise duties on fuel planned for the next few years? Will a weak fuel excise in the second quarter give the government an incentive to do something about it, or will you continue on a specific course of the Reform Party until the end? " First of all, thank you for the compliment! You name the course of the Reform Party. I am absolutely certain that this compliment is justified. However, as regards the main focus of the matter, I am forced to repeat that, in fact, the quantities declared have been considerably higher than expected. Fuel consumption has not decreased in Estonia, but has increased despite the rise in excise duty. Thus, in other respects, the increase in excise duty has not had the effect that excise duties are generally expected to have on reducing consumption. This has not actually been the case, the real trend has been the opposite, fuel consumption has increased in Estonia. And, as has been said, the receipts of excise duties on fuel have also increased: in September, they received 12.6% more than in September last year and in nine months, I repeat over, 13.9% more than in the previous year. It must be said that both in the second quarter and in the third quarter of your reference, the receipts have been greater than those planned in the budget. The impact of increasing excise duties on fuel must be assessed on an ongoing basis, as is the case with the impact of each excise duty. Of course, if necessary, changes should also be considered. However, if you look at the facts, the revenue from the nine months of 2016 and information on consumption do not give any logical reason to fundamentally change excise policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U14	Thank you. Prime Minister, you have a series of questions. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U15	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You said that the aim of raising excise duty is to tax vices and to move towards more sustainable savings in nature, as well as that we care about our health in the first place. Perhaps you have some good examples of how ministries are fulfilling this objective? For example, the use of car parks, for example, has it become more cost-effective cars, or is it a good example in terms of example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U16	Thank you. Looking further ahead, it is still a very clear trend that the number of professional cars and vehicles belonging to other institutions is being significantly reduced. I do not think that it is necessary to go so far as to impose this obligation on a ministerial basis, although this can also be done. I remember years ago, as a young official, I had the opportunity to give the Minister of Justice an overview of what kind of car park the state has. After this review, a very large reduction in the car fleet was agreed and this trend has persisted. The institutions tend to avoid buying office cars and in very many cases to compensate for the use of personal cars, which makes sense in this sense that a person does not necessarily have to have several cars. It's not just rational that a person has to drive different cars on different days. When we take Parliament, I remember that years ago Parliament also had a very representative car park in the form of trade cars that Riigikogu members could use. All of these were on the State balance sheet and their costs were covered by the State. I believe that the current arrangement is, in any case, more modern and we have moved in a very logical direction. At the same time, there are, and there are, countries in the world where there are a large number of trade cars in ministries, and that is also true for every Member of Parliament. The possibilities and wishes vary from country to country, but the direction taken in Estonia in recent years is not in recent years, but it has been right for a few decades, and I believe that there are only cases where it is very justified. There are also a few so-called general cars that can be used in ministries if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U17	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U18	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Speaking of receipt, it's deceiving. You know that very well. Right now you're talking about coming in September, but they're actually stocking up fuel for next year. This was also done in February when more than 50 million were received at the same time. But that's it. Speaking of a small spread, next year the price difference for diesel will be around EUR 150 per 1000 litres. If it is small money for you, I think it is not small money for entrepreneurs. I cannot understand your joy, because by raising excise duties on fuel, you will take EUR 90 million from the pockets of businesses and citizens in two years. This reduces the competitiveness of businesses and the purchasing power of citizens. Next year, as we know, the price increase will be around 2.7%, and you will burn more with the rise in excise duty. Is there any other way you can get the state budget together?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U19	Thank you. I would like to point out that all the euros that are more collected as excise duties will not be collected from people in the 2017 budget in the form of labour taxes. It has been a conscious choice that we want to alleviate the tax burden on labour, and it also directly affects the competitiveness of all companies operating in Estonia. We have said a great deal about this: lowering the social tax rate will leave more than EUR 40 million more in the hands of people and businesses next year than has been the case so far. It is also important to know that the increase in tax-free income next year will leave over 17 million more people in their hands. In the case of pensions, the additional tax-free income increase will result in a total of EUR 2,3 million, while the income tax refund for low-paid people will amount to nearly EUR 36 million, etc., etc. These are important changes. We can continue to argue whether it is right to charge more taxes on people's wages, just as the programmed position of the Centre Party is, or whether it is right to tax people's services as much as possible and to tax harmful consumption rather. This is a very clear question of tax policy choice, and it is absolutely right to debate it in this Chamber. I'm trying to remember exactly what your question was. There was a fact mistake I wanted to disprove, but with that big number reading, I forgot it. Let's hopefully come back to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U20	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U21	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! Our second question was how Estonian transport companies, especially those engaged in long-distance transport, should be able to remain competitive in the transport sector. You mentioned that we have higher wages than Latvia and that Latvia is difficult because the transport companies there have to pay road tax. You do know that Estonian machines that pass through Latvia pay road tax, and that heavy goods companies registered in Estonia pay the only heavy goods vehicle tax in Estonia that Latvians or Finns do not pay when driving through here? But here's my question. A very large part of Estonia is affected by how excise goods are purchased in Latvia. This is especially felt in the border regions of Pärnumaa and Valgamaa. You must be communicating with your colleagues. What is the reason that Latvia is not planning to increase excise duties on fuel next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U22	Thank you. It is difficult to say why Latvia's tax policy is exactly like this. However, we must remember that although Latvia is almost one and a half times larger than Estonia's population, its national budget is smaller than that of Estonia. And in Latvia, in addition to the much smaller collection of excise duties, the VAT hole is considerably larger than that of Estonia. If we look at the VAT hole alone, which represents the cost to the state of non-payment of taxes, we can see that the difference is greater than Estonia's or Latvia's defence expenditures. We are talking about an amount of half a billion euros. So I am not quite sure that we should set Latvia an example for Estonia in tax policy. I think that quite a lot is right for those Latvian politicians who say that look at how Estonia is. See how taxes are collected in Estonia, see how much wages in Estonia can be paid to your teachers, police officers and doctors. In this comparison, we have nothing to be ashamed of. When you consider whether we pay teachers, doctors and policemen significantly higher wages than in the neighbouring country, and partly because of this, we have a few cents more expensive fuel liters, forgive me. For me, a teacher's or a policeman's salary is ten times, if not a hundred times more important, than it is a few cents of the price difference on the fuel or the Euro spread on the bottle.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U23	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The objective you have stated to reduce harmful consumption of alcohol and tobacco, I am ready to sign 100%, but the expression 'damaging consumption of fuel', believe me, scratches the souls of very many people in Estonia. In particular, it hurts those who live not in the city, but in an outlying area, where perhaps no bus goes. These people use the car to transport children to school or to work themselves. However, it is precisely about alcohol and tobacco that I have the question. Are there any results of analyses showing a reduction in their consumption and perhaps the positive impact of excise duties on our health insurance fund or on security? While observing the news, it has not been the impression that the number of drink-drinking drivers has decreased. Unfortunately, there are also many minors who have been drinking alcohol and have been caught by the police. Who's running these tests?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U25	Thank you. As far as fuel and other energy sources are concerned, it is still a relatively common world view that the consumption of fossil fuels must be reduced. Some countries do so much more radically than Estonia, having introduced a very high car tax, from which vehicles that use electricity have been exempted. Or the car tax is set to be dependent on CO2 emissions. We know that CO2 emissions are quite closely correlated with car fuel consumption per 100 kilometres and mileage. So there are different solutions. As far as the fuel excise policy in other countries is concerned, in Latvia, Bulgaria and Lithuania, fuel is indeed somewhat cheaper. At the same time, we can also give examples of countries where the price of fuel is equal to or much higher than that of Estonia. So there are different tax policy options. As for the fact that there are areas in Estonia where the bus does not reach, we have agreed in the coalition that we will strengthen Estonian municipalities. We are in principle also prepared to transfer public transport arrangements, together with resources, to new strong municipalities, so that this transport can be organised by municipalities in collective action instead of rural governments. I really hope that this will help buses to reach every corner of Estonia. The second part of the question concerned alcohol consumption. The truth is that not a lot of these analyses have been carried out at the Ministry's request. We have both worked in the same ministry and in close contact with this area. I don't recall the Ministry following it very closely. Maybe I should. At the same time, we will be able to monitor the statistics of the Institute of Economics. It has to be said that either 2010 or 2011 alcohol consumption in Estonia has been in a nice decline. I believe that the increase in excise duty has still had a negative impact on alcohol consumption, and the reduction in drinking is, in my opinion, our common desire, which goes beyond the borders of political parties. This is in any case positive from the point of view of human health and from the point of view of society. The association of doctors, whom you personally have had a lot of contact with because of your profession, has highlighted various figures and other facts that they consider to indicate the impact of alcohol consumption on the Estonian health insurance budget. They're talking about very large sums of money. Even if half of their offer is directly related to alcohol, the effect of alcohol on Estonian society is very, very great. Unfortunately, it is the same in other Nordic countries. But to sum up this answer, I think it's really worth monitoring alcohol consumption in as detailed a way as possible. We know quite precisely how much alcohol has been bought, but we need to mention separately how much alcohol is bought from Estonia by Finns and how much Estonian people buy from other countries. If we can determine this, it is possible to monitor very closely how many Estonian residents buy alcohol and cigarettes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U26	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U27	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! You've probably already practiced responding to opposition criticism. But last week, the Riigikogu Finance Committee received a worrying, thorough letter from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which I consider well-argued, which refers to the risks associated with the increase in excise duties on fuel, such as the deterioration of the competitiveness of companies, and the government is asked to analyse these conclusions more often. You are expected on Thursday, as far as I know, by the Estonian Business Awards Gala. If there's a bravest entrepreneur who grabs your button during the break and asks straight: "Prime Minister, why are you doing this? Why are you damaging the competitiveness of Estonian companies?"Then how do you answer him?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U28	Thank you. My answer is simple. First of all, I meet bold Estonian entrepreneurs regularly in different formats on round tables. I communicate with a lot of people, and my answer on this issue is clear. The competitive advantage of Estonia cannot be the greatest possible pollution of nature at international level, not only in terms of fuel, but also in terms of pollution in a much wider sense, but also in terms of the price of the cheapest possible bottle of vodka. That can't be our competitive advantage. The competitive advantage of Estonia must be a wise Estonian person whose earned earnings must be subject to a reasonable tax, not more. Estonia must also have the competitive advantage that our tax system is the best in the world, i.e. the most competitive. This is the OECD's assessment of an international independent organisation, and you can be sure that it is in no way politically affected. I think this knowledge could support the coalition, the opposition and Estonian entrepreneurs. And, of course, these increases in excise duty are not dealt with in isolation. It's a big picture. By the amount we earn by raising excise duties, we are lowering labour taxes. This is now a place where I can also speak tax theory as a lecturer who I am a hobby once a year. I also lecture Master's students on this subject, and this is academic, not political, talk about the impact of different taxes on economic competitiveness and growth. It is also possible to rely on very dignified international studies, according to which labour taxes, and in particular corporate taxes, are significantly more detrimental to competitiveness than the taxation of harmful consumption. In the case of harmful consumption taxation, there is only one type of tax that has even less negative impact on economic growth, which is an asset tax. Although there is almost no property tax in Estonia, we have, for example, a land tax that can be treated as property tax. My clear answer is, don't be afraid. This slight difference in fuel prices does not lead Latvia past us in development. The fact that we have a few dozen cents cheaper fuel than in Finland does not automatically help us to get to Finland. Our competitiveness is rather stuck in the heads of our people and in our tax system as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U29	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U30	Thank you. You said that raising excise duties on fuel was a clear tax policy option. Yeah, of course, it's gotten a little bit more tax revenues, but it's triggered a real alcohol race to Latvia. And half of our transport companies let their trucks refuel in Latvia. Have you broken down how much your tax policy option has increased tax receipts in Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U31	Thank you. Yeah, these things are totally there. In fact, in Latvia, there are significantly fewer carriers than the "parties" you refer to. I believe that this 'half' has been obtained by asking businesses and other people whether you have ever refueled or bought alcohol in Latvia. I think if you ask if you have ever bought alcohol in Latvia, you will probably answer that you have. But that doesn't mean you buy a lot of alcohol every day in Latvia. Very much depends on how to ask for such sociological studies. Our Tax and Customs Board monitors how much fuel they buy, how much alcohol they buy. Yeah, border trade is, it's no secret. Border trade with Latvia exists, but it is significantly smaller than border trade with Finland. The quantities purchased from Finns in Estonia are much higher. The results also depend on what exactly is to be taken as a basis. In the case of alcohol, there is a difference between lean and strong alcohol levels. Strains are bought a little more across the border, but it accounts for 4 to 5% of Estonia's consumption in the order of magnitude. If we look at the impact of excise duties that we have foreseen in the budget, on the contrary, the impact so far has been less. As far as transport companies are concerned, the general rule tends to be that those companies transporting goods from Estonia to Germany, for example, look at where the most affordable fuel is in Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Germany. It is probably best for them to refuel in Latvia as of now, but Lithuania and Poland are also known as the countries with the cheapest fuel in Europe. In this price competition, it is very difficult for us to succeed and I am not quite sure whether we should succeed in this competition. Perhaps we think that successful competition will be guaranteed if we succeed in reducing labour taxes thanks to slightly higher excise duties. If we are in competition with so-called smart management, perhaps this is what makes us more prosperous. I don't know any country whose wealth is based on cheap fuel at gas stations. But maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U32	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We know that agriculture is going through very difficult times, both in milk production and in pig meat production. It's also an industry. The question is this: has the government considered such an option to differentiate excise duties depending on the situation and livelihood of the industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U34	Yes, of course. Fuel excise is differentiated. This has rather been linked to the fact that for those sectors whose vehicles do not travel on the road most of the time, but for example in fields, as in agriculture, there is a much lower excise duty on fuel. The fuel they use is called a specially labelled fuel. It's a perfectly valid law, there's no new system I think needs to be created here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U35	Dear colleague Henn Põllaas, at the time of the questioning, every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask a question. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U36	Thank you, manager. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about competitiveness, Mr. Prime Minister and I speak a completely different language. In the Prime Minister's view, the price of fuel, which is a direct input for basically all goods, does not affect competitiveness. I ask what else will affect competitiveness if not! To come here and say that we will reduce social tax by 0.5%, and immediately our businesses will become competitive! I would like to remind you that the taxpayers' union was resolutely opposed to reducing social taxes and increasing excise duties on fuel. But the entrepreneurs weren't taken into account. Businesses were not taken into account even if they wanted to reduce the unemployment insurance rate of 2.4%. Then the government locked it for four years. If, for example, companies could have reduced this rate by 0.5%, they would have won a significantly higher amount if they were now winning a reduction in social tax of 0.5%. But the question is much wider. The government needs to balance the budget with something. As we know, the country's reserves are falling at a terrible rate: of the 1.2 billion that existed in 2014, there will be 530 million left by the end of next year. The budget shall be kept in balance artificially, with unemployment insurance contributions. The total health insurance fund and unemployment insurance contributions amount to around 800 million. To come here to talk about tax cuts and competitiveness ♪ I think this is very wrong and cynical. If we compare excise duties from Latvia and Lithuania, for example, they are more or less equal, be they fuel excise duty or electric excise duty. They know that when the excise is lifted unilaterally, the money flows out of the country. The Lithuanians once tried to increase the excise duty, in four months they understood the error and flushed the excise duty back down. But the Estonian Government does not understand this. Doesn't the government have an overview? Go to Latvia once! The attack on gas stations and liquor stores in Latvia is massive. The mayor of Valka welcomes the decision of the Estonian Government because the city will have new jobs next year, they will open new shops, new gas stations. They're gonna win this, and they're gonna clap their hands. They do not understand what policy the Estonian government is pursuing. I would like to remind you once again that excise duties on fuel will increase the prices of all goods. Next year, we will have an increase in the consumer price index of 2.7% planned in the state budget. We are talking about an increase of 3% in the teachers' payroll, but to be honest, their real wages will only increase by 0.3%. When it comes to supporting farmers, next year's excise increases will take a million euros out of farmers' purse. But they don't want to talk about it. Other countries do not do this, on the contrary, other countries support farmers. We have become such an expensive country that Finns are passing Tallinn, and foreigners who come to the Pärnu Sanatorium to rest have special lists with them to bring us this and other items from Latvia. Where are we going to end up like this? It doesn't make any sense! The Prime Minister is right in that we have a completely different understanding of the economy and everything else. If we do not favour our businesses, if we do not favour competitiveness, if we are to drive our prices so high that everything is expensive for our people and others do not want to come here, is that the purpose of our country? Keeping the budget balanced with unemployment insurance contributions is not sustainable. Three or four years can go on like this, but what happens after that? After that, other governments will come and the country will have to be managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U37	Thank you. Andres Ammas, are you talking about this? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U38	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Honorable Prime Minister! I referred to a letter from the Chamber of Commerce earlier, and I would like to read the end of this letter in the interests of the verbatim report to conclude the debate here. I quote: "... In addition to the narrowly excise-related tax receipts and the secret market aspect, much greater attention will be needed in the future to have a broader socio-economic impact. As the so-called border trade deepens, it is predictable that not only purchases of excise goods from neighbouring countries will increase, but also the purchase of other goods with prices mostly similar on both sides of the border. This is a behavioural effect, as a result of which the turnover of commercial and service companies located on the Estonian side may fall below the critical limit and their activities may become commercially unusable. If this leads to job losses, it is already a social problem. It is also likely that closing a shop close to home will result in even more consumption in the neighbouring country."
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U39	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Prime Minister like a word? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Desiring to continue the subject that Andres Ammas started with reading the letter from the Chamber of Commerce, I can assure you that I very much agree that it is necessary to assess the impact in a wider sense. For example, when we look at the price of alcohol in Estonia and Latvia, we see that the differences are very large. They are sometimes more than five times the difference in prices, but on average the difference in prices is about five times higher than the difference in excise duties. The question arises, and probably rightly, where does this four fifths of the price difference come from? I am not comparing things that are incomparable at the moment, but I am comparing prices at the same international store chain stores in Valga and Valka. I do not compare Valka stores with one of the most expensive sons in the city centre of Tallinn. Where do these price differences come from? This should also be analysed, and I think that there are plenty of retail traders among the members of the Chamber of Commerce who can help us in these analyses. What should be done to ensure that the price difference, four fifths of which do not result from excise duty, is reduced? As for the fear that all Estonia will bring all its goods from Latvia, and therefore our retail trade will dry up and the people will be out of work, I will not share this fear. There are still a lot of shops in Estonia, although in Lithuania and Latvia many items are considerably cheaper, and I think this will continue to be the case in the future. We certainly don't have to be afraid of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U41	Thank you. We're done answering the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U42	We will go to the second question: the inquiry into the coalition agreement submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõmme, Andres Ammas, Külmiki Kübarsep, Jüri Adams, Krista Aru and Artur Talvik. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. On behalf of the inquisitors, I ask for Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U43	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Nearly four months ago, we had a sharp discussion in this Chamber, I dare say, at times even a bit strange on the strange subject: whether the flag should be raised on the day of entrepreneurs or whether it is not necessarily necessary. Inspired by this debate, members of the Free Party Group drew up an inquiry to the Minister for Enterprise. The questions are likely to be read by the minister himself, so he will be more comfortable. But a few words for the introduction. What's this about? We have excellent action programmes, development plans, action plans, excellent strategic documents in the Republic of Estonia. The Green Paper on Industrial Policy has probably already been drawn up. A report "Competitiveness 2.0" has been produced by the Ministry of Justice. But we have a coalition agreement that has been stoned, from which the coalition will only fill the part that is suitable for it, or that some points will fill, not in substance, but in formal terms. These are our doubts that the Minister now has a good opportunity to disprove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U44	Thank you. I ask for an inquiry to be answered by Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U45	Well, I guess I'll be going from the beginning. The first question: "In point 8.28 of the Coalition Agreement, we are discussing the development of Estonian industrial policy. At the end of March, you reportedly presented the Green Paper on Industrial Policy. However, a closer examination has made it clear that the book will be completed in the autumn. What is the content of the industrial policy reflected in the Green Paper, which areas and for what reasons do you intend to promote? How do you do that? " It is true that the Green Paper and the Action Plan on Industrial Policy have been completed and presented to the government for discussion. So far, this cabinet has not had a discussion. But why is industrial policy important? We all understand that exports are important for a country the size of Estonia. Two thirds of exports come from industrial production, one in five jobs we have in industry, and from that basis we started working on industrial policy. Industrial policy provides long-term directions to increase the international competitiveness of Estonian companies until 2030. We have set the goal of increasing the value added of the Estonian manufacturing industry to 80% of the European Union average, currently 40%. This, of course, requires a major contribution from both the state and businesses and their representative organisations. The Green Paper on Industrial Policy reflects the changes needed for development and focuses on the following issues: First of all, greater digitalisation of industry, also linked to the process known in Europe as the fourth industrial revolution. Further, adapting the education order to the needs of the industry on the basis of the Work in Estonia project, as well as integrating the activities of the unemployment fund into the OSKA system. It is a system that uses the real needs of our industry as a basis for submitting an educational order. The following point: The emergence of long-term financial instruments for industrial investments, including the extension of the portfolio of services provided by SA KredEx. Further, creating input from industry into the research and development directions of Estonian universities, increasing the number of product developments, including the integration of start-ups and industrial companies, as well as the expanded exploration and exploitation of valuable mineral resources in Estonia. During the first and a half years, the main emphasis is on analytical activities, which is why a comprehensive tax analysis, analysis of value chains and analysis of digitalisation will be carried out in 2017 to shape more effective measures. At the same time, we will start planning the content of long-term processes, such as the comprehensive coordination of labour orders. We have agreed with our partners on a solid division of labour, as well as a monitoring format, which will ensure the implementation of action plans and a flexible response to environmental changes. The second question: "In point 8.30 of the Coalition Agreement, you will allow a reduction in the administrative burden on small businesses. It is also one of the four main areas on which the Ministry of Justice report "Competitiveness 2.0" focuses. What concrete steps will you take to comply with the ten administrative burden reduction proposals set out in the report?" The "Competitiveness 2.0" report will be implemented in very close cooperation between the various ministries. The development and further development of user-friendly integrated digital solutions and services is essential to reduce administrative burdens. This is, of course, a continuous process, technology is developing rapidly and therefore neither e-state nor e-services will ever be fully completed. It is important that Estonia is able to keep up with others in these developments and carry everything through with thought. Here perhaps a recent legislative amendment allowing a bank account to be opened from a distance, i.e. without going to the office, is a very good example. This is particularly important for the implementation of our e-residency programme. In general, we are looking for synergies across different topics. The amendments to the Aliens Act alleviate a number of requirements for foreign specialists and investors. For example, when granting a residence permit, the requirement to reside permanently in Estonia has been eased and ICT specialists have been exempted from the quota, as these specialists are currently missing in Estonia. The "Reporting 3.0" project has been launched in cooperation with the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. Its purpose is to enable the automatic movement of data and to exempt operators from collecting data. The objective is that in 2020 the company will no longer have to submit tax returns if it meets certain conditions and has agreed to the automatic movement of its data. In my opinion, the so-called zero bureaucracy initiative, which was born in cooperation with four ministers, is very important in the plan to reduce the administrative burden on businesses. The aim of this project is to reduce bureaucratic requirements for businesses in their dealings with the country and to make the reduction of red tape a permanent objective. In the first phase of the project, 252 proposals were gathered from business organisations. Their review revealed that 204 were really proposals to cut red tape, while the rest were proposals to change policies. Of these 204 proposals to cut red tape, 164 are those that were decided to implement in cooperation with the ministries, 80% of all proposals will be implemented. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in turn, implements in full any other proposal submitted to it, each fourth proposal being partially taken into account. So 78% of the proposals we have made will come true. This means reducing accountability, simplifying reporting as well as reducing the requirements for documents requested by the State. Among other things, we will review, for example, licences relating to specific requirements. So this is just as one very real step that has been taken. While this preliminary seeding analysis was carried out in the summer, by now 25 proposals have been implemented and this year's work programme still contains 27 proposals. And out of the remaining 204, 164 are also to be implemented. The third question: "You will also allow, in point 8.30, to analyse alternatives to simplifying the taxation of micro-enterprises. What alternatives have you analysed and what solutions do you propose? " However, the tax analysis has not yet been carried out, but the task statement for a wider tax analysis has been prepared in close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the State Chancellery has also been asked to order the analysis. More detailed solutions will be available after analysis. Question 4: "In point 8.32 of the Coalition Agreement, you will allow an analysis of the rule that precludes a member of the company's management board from being unemployed if he loses his salary. The Chancellor of Justice has found that this situation is not constitutional. What have you done to get the government coalition to resolve this contradiction? What have you done as a minister to ensure that the corresponding amendment of the Free Party law (SE 172) is adopted and that the situation of entrepreneurs improves? "The Minister of Health and Labour has proposed a solution of principle, and the Cabinet discussed it on 28 April, including. As a result of this discussion, a draft has been prepared at the Ministry of Social Affairs, according to which a member of the board of directors of an unemployed legal person also qualifies, under certain conditions, for benefits and services for the unemployed. The conditions for registering the manager and the self-employed as unemployed are as follows: First, the head of the company will be registered as unemployed if he does not receive any remuneration and has worked for at least 180 days in the last 12 months. Secondly, self-employed persons are registered as unemployed if their business is suspended and has worked for at least 180 days in the last 12 months. The fifth question: "According to an inquiry into the situation of entrepreneurship in the regions on 2 May 2016, you highlighted as one of the main measures the programme for building rental housing (see points 5.4 and 5.5 of the Coalition Agreement). Do you continue to think, even after the criticism of the real estate companies, that placing public money in the construction of rental housing is a wise plan? What adequate measures are you planning for the development of regional entrepreneurship? " Yes, I am familiar with some of the criticisms of real estate companies, but the same way has been the case with statements of support from several real estate companies. However, based on the views of one category, a policy designed for the whole of the country cannot be shaped. Therefore, I still believe that the Estonian labour market needs a solution to the problem of the lack of high-quality rental space to increase mobility and create regional jobs. Outside Tallinn and Tartu, companies, especially industrial companies, have problems finding employees. This is often due to their own lack of suitable quality housing in a given area. If we solve this bottlenecks through the rental housing programme, we will be able to ensure an increase in labour mobility in the country, and this will also help to develop entrepreneurship in the regions. In a broad sense, however, all business policy contributes to regional entrepreneurship, even by providing resources for regional measures. However, the primary objective of the measures to support entrepreneurship is, of course, economic growth, especially the increase in added value, not the implementation of regional policy. At the same time, it should not be forgotten that several important industrial sectors are located outside Tallinn, for example in Ida-Virumaa, but several important timber companies are located in Võrumaa. There are certainly measures to start up entrepreneurship in order to promote regional entrepreneurship. So far, starting a business outside the big cities has been a lot of loum. From the new year, our major investor action will be launched, which takes into account the regional aspect and provides state support for the creation of businesses outside densely populated areas, especially in regions with the highest unemployment rates, such as Ida-Viru County and South-East Estonia. So in this sense, we are engaged in the development of regional entrepreneurship, but ensuring purely regional development is under the administration of another ministry. We are trying to look at the business environment as a whole and to focus certain measures where we see problems in a particular area, even if it is a remote region.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U46	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U47	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! In the Ministry of Justice's report "Competitiveness 2.0," as has already been mentioned, there are ten more important issues. One of them is the possible change in tax policy. I quote: "The payment of social contributions must be regulated more flexibly (the fixing of minimum and maximum rates). A special tax on health and sports costs for the transport and transport of workers must be abolished. " Sounds great. How is the implementation of this point progressing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U48	Thank you. Such individual proposals are, in fact, found in a large number of strategy papers. This is also the reason why, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we have set up the task of ordering a broader analysis of the tax environment. The State Chancellery will organise this procurement and then it will be examined. Tax policy solutions cannot be accepted as small pieces; in the end, they must form a single whole. Different tax solutions have a very wide-ranging impact. If, on the one hand, the effects are raised or lowered on the one hand, then the effects actually widen a great deal. For example, this increase in alcohol excise duty does not only affect the turnover of catering establishments; its far-reaching impact is also felt in our health care, for example. That is why we have gone down the road now that we have decided to order a comprehensive tax analysis. On this basis, it will be decided which changes might arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U49	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! We have talked a lot about the fact that the training provided by the education system does not meet the needs of our industry. You mentioned that, too. But this is not news and we do not need to re-analyze and evaluate it. What are the concrete proposals you are proposing to the Minister for Education and Research as Minister for Enterprise so that it can be reorganized, even on the basis of our vocational training institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U51	Thank you. In fact, this is one of the facts that came out from the very beginning during this process. Yeah, this is where the shoe squeezes the most. For a very long time, many administrative managers and business managers and other different managers have been trained on the basis of an educational order. At the same time, industry needs managers with special education, but they have not been trained. This was the first plan to work, although the strategy paper itself has not yet been adopted. Already in September of this year, TTÜ started teaching certain specializations necessary for industry, receiving input from this process. The whole process was the first one from the point of view of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, where the development of the strategy paper was carried out in cooperation with professional associations and companies in such a way that once a week they sat together, mapped the situation and discussed what is the biggest brake of development and what would be needed to overcome the obstacles. So now new disciplines are being taught that are necessary for industry. These have been very concrete steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U52	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U53	Thank you, manager. Madam Secretary! I will ask you again about competitiveness. In my opinion, the competitiveness of companies is very poor in Estonia, although the Prime Minister thinks otherwise. In Germany, for example, a company that consumes a lot of electricity has an excise tax of EUR 0.5 per megawatt-hour, while we have EUR 4.5. It's nine times the difference! How is it possible to remain competitive in these circumstances? Or another thing, fuel excise rise. Do you share our Prime Minister's view that excise policy has nothing to do with the competitiveness of an entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U54	Thank you. I believe it was like a generalization. Excise policy, and any tax policy at all, not only affects competitiveness, but also the country's economy and state welfare at all. Consequently, these decisions must be taken in such a way that they are as balanced as possible and serve the development interests of the country as a whole. As far as the issue of energy-intensive industries is concerned, it is true that the European Union has set certain limits in this area. We've taken the most of it so far. To date, I have presented my proposals to the Cabinet to discuss the changes that could be made so that companies using a lot of energy are more competitive and so is our country, so that such companies can be set up and invested here. I believe that these proposals will reach the debate in the Cabinet during this autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U55	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. On 26 September the Social Affairs Committee was briefed by the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who presented us with the work plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the legislative plan. It did not come out of nowhere that the government decided how to proceed with the issue of unemployment insurance for board members. It's not on their schedule. That's why I'm a little surprised right now that you had one information coming from you, but it's a whole other one from that officer. But that's it. Actually, I want to ask you something else. We have a huge shortage of hands, which is already hampering the development of our economy. It is proposed that refugees can bring relief in this regard, as well as older people who could be more into employment. This, however, requires tax changes, as well as making the system more flexible, such as allowing more part-time work. What are your proposals to encourage part-time work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U57	Thank you. Perhaps this issue is not on the agenda because the Ministry of Social Affairs has drawn up this draft and it is also waiting for the office to discuss it in order. But it is true that we have a shortage of labour in certain regions, just as there is unemployment in some regions. Almost 9% of unemployment is in Ida-Virumaa, and now, fortunately, it is already falling. However, in the vicinity of Tallinn and Tallinn and Tartu, we have achieved the percentage of unemployment that is no longer falling. There's always a bunch of people who don't work. However, we have proposed different solutions, including for businesses. We have organized work fairs in Ida-Virumaa, for example Viljandi entrepreneurs are recruiting people from Ida-Virumaa. But they complain that one big problem is that they don't have rents to accommodate these people. We also have a programme called Work in Estonia, in which we organise campaigns to recruit people from abroad into those sectors where more people are needed. Three such recruitment projects were carried out last year, two of them in Finland, one in Ukraine. These were all targeted at IT staff and were highly successful recruitments. At the end of this year or at the beginning of next year, there will be industry-specific jobs. So we're working on it. One way really is to use part-time more. The Minister for Health and Labour will deal with such specific issues. I have proposed, as one option, to make it as easy as possible to start a business and bring in more age groups or groups with very low levels of entrepreneurship. For example, awareness-raising and mentoring measures are currently being developed for middle-aged and older women, as they are one group with very low levels of entrepreneurial activity. In addition, there are a wide range of business start-up measures, from basic training, continuing training, knowledge-raising to start-up support, which we raised to EUR 15000 during this period. That gives you a chance to start. In order to give an even better start, we added that regional development centres must be consulted first. There must be a person who analyses whether the planned business could be effective and sustainable. So we try to encourage people to realize themselves in different ways. We deal with it every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U58	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. My colleague Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U59	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Honorable Minister! I was pleased to hear that a whole series of proposals were already being implemented. We would be grateful if you could send us some summary from the Ministry, for example, in the form of a table, on these proposals that have already been implemented, it would be easier to get an overview. Now the question is which proposals you have started with. I hope that not of the simplest and smallest, but of the most substantial and most substantial, of the most important. Forgive me for reminding me of an old and perhaps worn-out joker who was looking for the missing key at the lantern, not where it actually went missing. The question, however, is whether to look in a simpler place or where you need to look. I hope that in the first instance the Ministry will implement the most necessary proposals, which will move the Estonian economy forward the most and really improve the competitiveness of Estonian companies. However, since we have noticed that this report "Competitiveness 2.0" prepared by the Ministry of Justice is not well known, I will allow myself here, in the interests of the debate and the verbatim report, to pass it on to you a little bit. The Ministry of Justice convened a steering group consisting of undertakings and representatives of associations bringing them together. Its purpose was to propose state-wide steps to encourage entrepreneurship and boost economic life. The main conclusion was that the Advisory Board of the Ministry of Justice proposed the establishment of a Competitiveness Commission under the Presidency of the Prime Minister. I have heard that there is indeed one such working group with the Prime Minister. If it is not a national secret, I hope that the results of the working group will one day be introduced to the members of the Riigikogu. The Commission concluded that the state's steps to increase competitiveness really have an impact on GDP growth and that, in addition to external demand and domestic consumption, the state has a meaningful role to do with the growth of international competitiveness. All the proposals put forward were divided into four categories. Firstly, flexible employment relationships, secondly, a modern tax environment, thirdly, an optimal administrative burden, fourthly, a legal environment supporting entrepreneurship. As the Minister for Enterprise answered the question today, I will leave the legal questions for a second time, not all at once, and I am referring specifically to issues relating to taxes and red tape. I have already mentioned that ten of the most important points selected separately are advised that social tax payments should be regulated more flexibly. I am not ashamed to recall here that the Free Party Group has already tabled a draft on this matter twice. We can present them again and again, and we still believe that the abolition of the mandatory minimum social tax, in the form it currently exists, as well as the charging of social tax, will revive the economic life of Estonia. Both measures will make work more flexible. It is further specified that tax incentives could be granted to employers who employ minors. That's a very good idea! More exemptions and part-time work are recommended, which is hampered by the current mandatory minimum social tax regulation. It is recommended that, in certain cases, social tax should be limited to the share of health insurance, 13%. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U60	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U61	An ambitious topic here in the Riigikogu Hall is that entrepreneurs could be allowed to pay duty-free travel costs for employees if they have to travel long distances every day, for example from one county to another. Sport and health costs could also be compensated. The maximum social tax rate could create a more favourable environment for higher-than-average pay jobs, including in knowledge-based areas. After all, it has been shown that for every 10 employees with a salary above the average, a social tax ceiling would help create another 11 highly paid jobs. New e-environment solutions can be used to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and make it easier to deal with. I was glad to hear that something would change by 2020 at least. Just today, in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, we listened to another audit report by the National Audit Office, which states that the current environment, e-statistics, is not suitable for anywhere. It is a little regrettable that it takes so long to create this new environment in the e-state. This report recommends a more business-friendly public procurement procedure and that continuing training and retraining opportunities for the unemployment fund really respond to the needs of the market. It is also said that a better capacity of law enforcement authorities to investigate economic crimes would probably benefit and that the obligation to pay social tax could ideally be shared between employers and employees. This principle has also been discussed for years, if not decades. In this way, wage earners would be better aware of the actual tax burden on labour. It is proposed that foreigners with a temporary residence permit should be exempt from the obligation to pay social tax or exempt from it for a certain period of time, why not for six months. There is talk of personalised medical accounts, about the possibility of lowering the unemployment insurance rate and increasing the motivation of local authorities to encourage entrepreneurship. For example, a certain part of the income tax could be paid to the local government of the person's place of residence and to the local government of the place of employment. Jne, et cetera. When I read it, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes it seems to me that I do not read the Ministry of Justice's report, but the Free Party's programme, and I am very pleased about that. Therefore, we are on the same path. But I really wish it could make it. When people used to say that the best way to create a Commission is to drown a problem, sometimes it seems to me that one way to achieve it is to order an analysis. Let us hope this is not the case with these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U62	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. We're done answering another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U63	Let's keep going. Members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamm, Valeri Korb, Toomas Vitsut, Kadri Simson, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Korb, Märt Sults, Viktor Vassilyev, Kersti Sarapuu, Enn Eesmaa, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Erki Savisaar and Siret Kotka have submitted the third question. The inquiry is about the departure of the services provided by the State and has been submitted to Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. On behalf of the inquisitors, please speak to Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U64	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Four months ago, we presented an enquiry to Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure about the distance between the services provided by the state. Unfortunately, the Estonian people are already accustomed to the fact that if they do not live in a city or a larger settlement, it is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain services. Post offices, bank offices and even ATMs have disappeared in rural areas. Although the concept of state reform states that the quality of services must not deteriorate, the reality is different. The Road Administration has been entrusted with the task of liquidating 50 jobs this year, and the organisation of all its offices will be reviewed for this purpose. To achieve this goal, the Road Administration will close its offices in Jõgeva, Põlva and Valga from 1 July. The newspaper writes that the closest office for 6700 clients in Valga is located in Võru. For the current 8900 Jõgeva office client, the closest office is located in Tartu and 9000 is located in Võru for the Põlva office client. In addition, the opening hours and services of the offices of Saare, Hiiu and Raplamaa are limited. The Road Administration is trying to argue that advanced e-services help people to get their services, but in fact this is only partly true. It is not possible to take a theoretical and driving test online. It is also not possible to register vehicles and trucks brought from outside the European Union. According to Põlva, Jõgeva and Valga County Elders, the closure of offices has a dampening effect on many people and businesses in South Estonia. This plan undermines the competitiveness of the regions, and in this connection we have four questions for the Minister, which today are no longer very topical, because I know that certain decisions were taken last Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U65	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! A good last member of the Central Party who has listened to an inquiry in the hall! As usual, I'll read the question out, and then I'll give you an answer. The first question: "Why do you think that people should live in quieter rural areas when all services are constantly moving away from these areas? " I carefully read your questions and the introductory text. You might think that life in the country is connected to a dense network of offices. If you borrow the words of Aarne Seppel, the editor of Postimees Pluss, the journalist of Postimees, I quote: "One correct state reform mercilessly reduces the army of free-eating officials, covers Estonia evenly with the head offices of state offices, brings all public services to the very most private household and, as if magically, saves taxpayers' money. " Today, as we know, the provision of services has changed greatly. The state must also keep up with the consumption patterns and demographic trends of Estonian people. When people move more to e-channels, as well as private companies and public authorities, it needs to be developed in the provision of services. People need to be able to use the services more conveniently. Demographic trends should also be taken into account. If the working age population in Estonia declines, the number of employees of state institutions cannot increase. This means that each institution or private company owned by the State must seek efficiency, better and more services for each employee when providing services. Urbanisation, as a trend, cannot be overlooked either, as it also affects the number of consumers of services and the way today's mobile people want to consume services. The quality and availability of services therefore counts in the way that Estonian people want to consume them. Now more specifically. The Estonian Post, to which you referred, is based. The aim is to provide services in a place where more people are attending, in a more comfortable way and to develop services that will be used in the future. The postal network is organised in cooperation with local authorities and local operators. Where there is a demand for a service, the best solution will be found, in cooperation with different parties, through parcel terminals, local shops or libraries. The aim is to provide more and more convenient services for people. I hope everyone understands the simple logic that if a small post office tries to make up for a small number of visitors in competition with the shop, it will not work because the shop still works more efficiently. Bringing the mail service to the store also means greater comfort for people. We all go to the store and it's good if you can also use a mail service or a parcel machine, not spend time going to several places. Similar cooperation will also take place with regional libraries in the field of postal services. I think this is a good idea, because it wins the consumer, it wins the workers in its burden and it wins the taxpayer, who bears the cost of transporting letter services and periodicals home. With regard to the second issue, the reform programme discussed by the Road Administration this spring aims to achieve three main objectives: wider use of e-services, the closure of corruption cases and ensuring that young drivers with a driving licence are better able to drive both on the road and in urban traffic. In order to end corruption cases, a single examination centre will be set up next year, but both theoretical and driving examinations will be passed in all county centres. That's why the examiners make trips. The establishment of a single examination centre is aimed at reducing the risk of corruption, while examinations are carried out on the principle of anonymity. The examiner doesn't know who he's taking the exam from, so you can avoid passing the exams on the basis of an agreement. Traffic will be safer if a driver with a driver's license obtained under the agreement can meet each one of us by any route or street, as well as on the crossing. It's important that there are no more cases like this. The content of the training of young leaders will need to be reviewed in the coming years. The goal that a young driver can manage in urban traffic as well as on the road, hopefully no one will argue. At present, over half of those who have taken the exam fail and this is certainly not satisfactory. There is also a need to improve the quality of education, and car schools themselves admit that something can be done better. Now for the services. Statistics on the use of the services of the Estonian Road Administration clearly show the decreasing trend in the number of operations carried out in service offices throughout Estonia. Compared to 2015, the visitability of service offices has decreased by 16% over the eight months of 2016. The trend towards reduced office attendance is continuing. At the same time, the share of use of e-services is steadily increasing. Last year, slightly more than half of the operations were carried out via e-services, while for more popular services, around 60% are carried out through e-services. This shows that the agencies have followed the consumption habits of the Estonian people and their development in providing their services, not the stubborn talk that strength is based on large office space. In e-Estonia, this talk is getting less and less, and I believe we are all in agreement here. The second question: "Multiple services provided by service offices - initial inspection of vehicles prior to registration, attendance at exams - cannot be used for e-service purposes because they require a personal visit. Therefore, the argument made by the Public Road Administration that e-services help to prevent people from becoming less accessible is not clear. For the people of Valga County, this will mean passing 80 km from now on. Do you think this is a normal regional policy? " I answered a lot above, but for the sake of clarity and verbatim, service agencies continue to serve customers in all county centres. A total of 17 offices will continue to work. There is no plan to close any representation; in eight offices opening hours are reduced to three days a week. However, the growth in the share of e-services is a trend that we hope will not slow down in e-Estonia. I have also ordered a new driving licence from the Estonian Road Administration, which I needed outside Estonia. Since my I.D. information was available at the Road Administration, the next day I received a message that my driver's license would be available. If I had ordered by mail, it might have been a few days longer. If it doesn't seem comfortable to do business, then I suggest that you travel around the world, you will understand as soon as you know how great Estonia is. The third question: "The statistics of the offices of Põlva, Jõgeva and Valga show that the revenue-cost ratio of these offices is effective. Why, however, has the Head of the Road Administration been ordered to close the offices of Põlva, Jõgeva and Valga? " I haven't heard the Director - General of the Road Administration be ordered to close the offices. The Director-General of the Road Administration, like any other office, shall be free in decisions concerning the organisation of its work. However, as has already been said, every institution must look for opportunities to provide better services and work effectively. Given that the working age population is declining, public authorities cannot move in the opposite direction either. Question 4: "The purpose of the closure of the Bureau is to save costs, but has it been taken into account that the workload of other offices will increase as a result of this change? How much staff is planned to be employed in other offices? " Let it be made clear once again that the Road Administration does not close any service offices. It will continue to be possible to visit all 17 service offices.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U67	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U68	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. No one is opposed to reducing the risk of corruption. But it surprises me that it took four months to reach this relatively normal solution. How much was spent in that time on people's nerves, how many meetings, proofs, etc. were held! Would it not be wise to discuss these matters before coming up with the reform agenda? For now, however, the only thing left to scratch the soul and to which I am not satisfied is that people are received three days a week. Why not five days? Where does this effect come from? Spaces need to be heated, and what does the person who works in the office and accepts the residents do for the other two days? Why three and not five days? If it was five days, I'd agree with your solution, but right now I can't make sense of it. However, the entrepreneur must adapt to this work organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U69	Thank you. I could reiterate the words of Postimees journalist Aarne Seppel that the reform should mercilessly reduce the army of officials, cover Estonia evenly with the head offices of state agencies, bring public services to the very most private household and, as if, magically, save taxpayers' money. I suggest you read this story. I read many times in my day, and my heart got warm. On the one hand, we are talking about the reduction of the working age population and the need for public authorities to look for efficiency. On the other hand, we know that trends in the consumption of human services are changing. People are increasingly using e-services, as I referred to before, because they are comfortable and always available to them. The agencies have to keep up with their lives. I don't know why you're upset. The Road Administration presented a reform programme, went through municipalities, interacted with rural governments and businesses. The whole debate was public. Such a debate must be very long and very public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U70	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Everything is right: services change, our population changes, the whole world changes. But my question concerns this background more broadly. Is it a priority for the current government to make life work in every corner of Estonia so that there is work everywhere and people can live everywhere? What do you think, as a very capable minister, can the state do to ensure that life exists also in Southeast Estonia near the border and everywhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U72	Honourable questioner, I am undoubtedly flattered by this compliment, and I will certainly work harder in my work now. But what we can do, that's definitely what we're gonna do. Unfortunately, all good wishes and deeds are linked to the opportunities of the taxpayer. As you know, much of our work concerns good connections within Estonia. It was only recently that we sent the government a revised road plan, which reflects how 1.7 billion will be spent on road infrastructure in seven years. Next year, the largest road infrastructure construction in the history of free Estonia will begin, i.e. the expansion of the Tartu road. But there are also a number of other objects; all connections within Estonia are important. This means both bus and ferry connections, as well as flights within Estonia. At the same time, connections outside Estonia are also important. One objective, which has also been much debated in this Chamber, is the opportunity to work everywhere in Estonia. This requires the establishment of a basic communication network, which we do in the same way. At the initiative of the various political groups of the Riigikogu and with the support of our contribution, a draft has also been drawn up to make the last mile of this basic network cheaper. All these activities serve the purpose of making it possible to work and communicate in Estonia outside the capital cities. Of course, the state's ability to cover even the most private forest farm area with asphalt is, however, limited in terms of the use of taxpayers' money and perhaps also in terms of common sense. We are still putting these basic connections in order, both on the level of infrastructure and on the level of the virtual world!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U73	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U74	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! The fact that the representatives of the Road Administration went around in consultation with governors, entrepreneurs and other interested parties is indeed good and right. That's it. However, several posts are known about social media, where one or the other member of the Riigikogu, representing the coalition, refers to its own significant influence in changing this strategy. As minister, did you have to use your influence to change your strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U75	Thank you. I think the Road Administration reached this decision in consultation with a lot of people from all over Estonia. There must have been a lot of people who influenced that decision. One remarkable fact is that although much has been said that car schools do not want change, I can confirm from the information provided by the Road Administration that the car schools themselves admitted the need to improve the quality of teaching. This is also, in my opinion, a further line of work. Let us look at our overall road safety. The initial objective is to have a maximum of 75 deaths on average over three years, but future road safety plans foresee a significantly lower figure. Unfortunately, the number of road accidents has remained the same in recent years. This has not decreased significantly, which means that management skills need to be improved somehow. And that certainly requires that it gets harder to get a license, so perhaps driving skills are better. This means that new drivers will have to cope both in large cities and on the road. 50% of major accidents occur in cities. This is one problem that has been discussed, but there are still many issues, including where the Road Administration could provide departure services to entrepreneurs. They are already on trips and maybe in the future do more than have more technology. So it is not just a guideline to do a reform that does not change anything. A lot of things change. And if you follow the news from the police and the Road Administration's common area, you know that roadworthiness tests have had exactly the same problems. This is an area that needs to be constantly addressed in order to end these corruption cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U76	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I know that you are a great supporter of e-services and also of e-elections. As we know, e-elections are a service that can be used without leaving home. Please explain why you have to go to the DMV's office to take the traffic theory exam! Why don't you take that exam at home on your computer? I mean, that would make real savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U78	Thank you. I like that idea, I think you can do traffic tests all the time at home for practice, even if you have a driver's license. But I suspect that during the real exam, someone at home sits next to an experienced driver and tells the answers in advance and cannot be verified. In the case of elections, if someone's been sitting next door giving instructions, you can always vote around and go to the station, as you know. But if you're asking if that could be the case in the future, why not? Just have to be sure that whoever answers will later know "Give way!" Mark it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U79	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U80	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Is it already clear how this problem of bringing broadband to end users will be resolved? We know that a lot of European Union money has been spent now, but many customers still do not normally have the Internet.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U81	Thank you. I will try to describe the situation in a few words, although it does not directly concern this subject. But maybe it does. In fact, there are several aspects to this problem. One is what can be done for the money of the European Union and what we have done, and here in the Riigikogu, we have described and will describe in the future: it is a basic network, about 4400 kilometres of which have been built and a total of 6600 kilometres. The base network is necessary in order to base the entire connection of the so-called last mile, regardless of the types or forms of the connection in the future. There are many regions where the last mile connection is completely marketable, entrepreneurs have long established it, and there are places where this 'fastest version' of the last mile can be obtained. At the same time, there are places where people don't get it yet, and places where people don't want it. There is now a debate about how, when we have the basic network finished, how to ensure that entrepreneurs make this last connection. To make this last connection cheaper, a draft has been initiated in the Riigikogu with the support group concerned, which aims to make this work an estimated 4 to 5 times cheaper, also using existing infrastructure. I think there's probably more of them. Now, if you're asking me what the future is, I dare say I've said it before, that I don't think the future is sitting on a wire. People don't go looking for a place to plug a computer into. This time is over, maybe only in the case of very large volumes, it is still necessary. This means that, I don't know, two, three or four years from now Tallinn will start and expand over Estonia's 5G project. Tallinn is one of the first places to start it, and this connection could be as fast or even faster as the fastest wire connection now. So I'd rather look to the future and the future is probably still in a mobile high-speed connection. In Estonia, it is quite favourable to go from 3G to 4G, the same could be for 5G. Estonia is in a very good position both in terms of coverage and price. I think it's a trend, which way we're going, but in order for it to come, we need to take a few steps. There is a draft on this subject in your proceedings, and as your legislators you can deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U82	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The availability of state services in rural areas leaves much to be desired and the National Audit Office reached this conclusion as early as 2010. The situation has not improved since six years ago. Of course, one way to improve infrastructure is by bringing this example, and this work certainly represents a major step forward. However, in order to be able to consume the services provided, we should have access to transport, as well as accessible buildings and facilities where these services are provided. That's my question. Some time ago, a new building law was passed. According to this, your regulation must also specify these accessibility requirements. As far as I know, there is no regulation, which means that the situation of people with disabilities, as well as of older people, could get worse. How far is the "accessibility" regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U84	Thank you. As far as I know, we've established these rules, but after the questioning is over, I can check and send you a precise reply in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U85	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U86	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I actually didn't think I had to come back to the speaker today, but I still had to. According to the Minister, this is a successful reform if, first, there is a plan to keep the office open one day a week in Põlva, for example, and then after the discussion and the public and political pressure are finally reached three days. If you think this is a normal process, go ahead. In my opinion, this is a completely abnormal process if the plan comes up without proper consideration. For example, there were 9,000 visits in the Põlva office last year and there was a plan to leave the office open only one day a week! At the same time, the Jõgeva office was left open for three days, although the number of visitors was lower. Why were such decisions made? Were those maybe political decisions in Jõgeva from the County Elder Reform Party, Põlva from the IRL? Then the talk that we are talking about the rational use of taxpayers' money. All this reform would have won 800000 euros, but people would have had to travel across Estonia to Tartu and other remote offices. Entrepreneurs, whose time is already short and time costs, should have started to adventure across Estonia in order to make things right. I don't understand. In one place, huge savings are being chased, but at the same time I will give an example of today's Postman. Ordering additional barges for two months costs approximately EUR 1 million, which is EUR 200000 more than would have been annual savings for keeping offices. When we are talking about taxpayers' money, the use of taxpayers' money in general should be taken into account and, in particular, decisions should be considered when the services provided to people are at risk. If the government's plan is to move state institutions out of Tallinn and set up businesses in rural areas, then in this case you will do the opposite. And the minister still did not answer why the offices are open three days a week and not five days a week. Should an entrepreneur start planning trips to the city on account of the fact that it does not pay to drive at this time or another because the office is closed? Where does the savings come from in two days? The Bureau needs to be heated, the Bureau needs to be maintained. Where's that savings coming from? But it is probably intended to show that, to some extent, we did do this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U87	There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. Thank you. We're done answering the third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U88	We go on: today's fourth question is submitted by members of the Riigikogu Erki Savisaar, Kadri Simson, Anneli Ott, Mailis Reps, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Rein Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Martin Repinski, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassiliev, Siret Kotka and Peeter Ernits. The inquiry is about the state's situation in the aviation industry, which is presented to Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. I ask Erki Savisaare to speak on behalf of the speakers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister! Colleagues and all the people who are watching us over the Internet! This enquiry has been made four months ago. A lot has happened in the meantime, but unfortunately, there has been no positive news of Estonian aviation during this period. It has been 13 months since the founding of the Nordic Aviation Group, or NAG. It has been 11 months since Estonian Air ceased its scheduled activities. We can say that a year has gone by, and it is time to take stock and assess whether action has been taken correctly. The National Audit Office's report pointed out that the government made two new decisions to set up an airline that had absorbed a total of 72.7 million euros in haste, opaque and unsure that the plans of the airlines were feasible. Neither company's board of directors had confirmed the business plan of the company at the time of the request for information. Are the business plans confirmed by now? If so, what was changed there, and why did it take so long? If not, why? What is behind it, and on what basis do these companies operate in this case? There have been very different statements about the return of NAG, but the publication of comprehensive financial results has been postponed to the next few years. The suspicion that the NAG is constantly going bankrupt is getting worse, just like its predecessor. There are rumors that the loss in the first year of operation will be around EUR 20 million. That's half the money invested in the NAG. If this continues, by 2018, the company will be bankrupt. Yes, we can say that every start is hard and it gets better. NAG's representatives have confirmed that they are working to ensure that next year's losses do not exceed one third of this year's losses and will reach their current profits in 2019. This is very hard to believe, because the loss in the first quarter was 4.5 million euros. It was a period in which the lion had to deal with the start-up. The annual result of 20 million shows that the burning of money has not slowed down and the company will certainly not last the next nine years if it moves at this rate. Why nine? Because that's when state aid rules give you the next chance to support the company. Of course, there is always a way to bankrupt the NAG and make a new company, but what trust are we talking about and who is responsible? In comparison with competitors, NAG does not offer a better service, better destinations or more favourable prices. Why should the consumer use NAG services? In addition to these questions, the questioners have a few more questions for the Minister. I would ask the Minister to read the questions. I hope that we will have substantive answers to them and perhaps we will also hear some positive news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U90	Thank you. Please answer the question by Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U91	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good two middle partyers who have stayed in the hall! As usual, I'll read the questions and then answer them. The first question: "The important advantages of Estonian Air were a good flight schedule with Amsterdam. Why didn't this right be sold to NAG? " By way of introduction, it is in the interests of the Estonian economy and residents to have and remain competitive when flying from Tallinn. This means better destinations, charts and prices for us. To give a concrete example, when Nordica stopped competing with SAS on flights to Copenhagen, the number of flights to Copenhagen immediately decreased and ticket prices increased. The economic impact of an airline based in Tallinn has been assessed in different analyses at EUR 100-200 million per year. It is the money that comes into our economy from associations, not to mention the more indirect result of these associations in economic, cultural or security terms. Nordica or any airline need not be exclusively owned by the State. The country and the public are interested in ensuring air connections. If there are interested parties to arrange flights from here or invest in Nordica, we will be guided by the need to maintain connections, not by the company's membership. Now for the flight schedule. It should be stressed that Nordica is a new company and that Estonian Air could not or could not buy over or take over anything. In Amsterdam, Nordica applied for new slots, or take-off and landing times at the destination airport, and we got the best available. Nordica itself has assessed that two main directions for success are: in the case of Estonian routes, the destinations to which the Estonian passenger wants to travel, and in the case of large airlines, the other direction is the provision of services. There is a trend in Europe that large airlines focus on longer lines with large aircraft. An advance of up to 2000 km shall be ordered in on the basis that the costs are covered. Nordica offers such a service with its fleet of the right size. The company chooses the destinations and partners accordingly. In addition, I can recall that the Amsterdam route operated by Estonian Air was loss-making for them. The second question: "What are the financial results of NAG in the first half of 2016 compared to what was planned?" and the third question: "The losses of NAG in the first quarter of this year allegedly amounted to EUR 4,5 million. For such amounts, the money put into the company will be "burned" within two years. What are you forecasting losses for 2016? " I answer two questions at once because they are related. The day-to-day business activities of the company are carried out by the board of directors and the board of directors of the company, as is the case in all state-owned private companies. The Government and the Minister are not involved in the organisation of the company's day-to-day economic activities. On the basis of the analysis and business plan, the Government decided to establish Nordica. The general meeting has formulated expectations for the company and is based on these and the business plan. The company is designed to operate on a commercial basis. According to the Chairman of the Nordic Council, the initial losses were foreseeable as the construction of the company started from scratch and aviation was an extensive area of investment. Nordica's managers expect the company to be in balance by 2019. According to the management board of Nordica, the first objective was to create an adequate customer network and put their planes into operation, as foreign aircraft and crews were considerably more expensive. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. The company is moving between the base and conservative scenarios of the business plan. According to the Management Board of Nordica, the first 15 months' budget was set up in September 2015, until December 2016 largely includes the costs of starting the company and start-up investments and budget minus EUR 15 million. The expected loss for 2017 is EUR 6 million, the loss for 2018 is EUR 3 million, and Nordica plans to end 2019 with profit. The company has also explained its economic situation in the press. Of course, there are limits, because competition in the market is intense. However, as we do not read in detail every month in the paper about the salary of each editorial office or the increase in advertising, but still concentrated on the annual report, so is the case with the airline. The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu, including representatives of the heirs, recently visited the company's activities and, if there is a wish, it can still be done. Question 4: "What are your estimates of the advantages of NAG compared to other airlines departing from Tallinn such as AirBaltic, Lufthansa, Turkish Airlines and others? Why should air passengers prefer NAG? " Sorry to repeat the introduction, but it is probably necessary to understand that it is important for the Estonian economy to have an airline based in Tallinn. According to economic analysts, the airline based in Tallinn brings EUR 100-200 million per year to the Estonian economy. I'm referring to the analysis of Nyras and Maris Lauri. Nordica is the only airline based in Tallinn. Domestic and Tallinn based airline is the only one that takes into account the needs of Estonians in terms of flight times and destinations, whose important flights leave Tallinn early in the morning and bring people back home in the evening. Examples of Lithuania, Slovakia and Hungary have been analysed and these analyses show what will happen if the local airline disappears. The consequence is that direct connections will be reduced and the lack of competition will be detrimental. The same is confirmed by Estonia's example. When Estonian Air stopped flying, SAS started flying to Copenhagen. As I mentioned earlier, in competition with SAS, Nordica decided to withdraw from the Copenhagen route, then prices rose and the flight schedule deteriorated. The same analogy of the reduction of competition can be expected by predicting what would happen if the company based in Tallinn disappeared: the number of direct lines would decrease and the consumer would lose. Thus, the arguments for continuing are the Estonian company, which certainly understands the needs of our people better than any other, helpful high-quality service in Estonian, and flying from here to suitable larger destinations. The domestic airline also has the will and flexibility to find solutions in extreme unexpected situations. For example, after the terrorist attacks in Brussels, Nordica made additional notes and brought the people of Estonia home from the danger area. Other companies would never do that for us. But Nordica or any airline based in Tallinn need not be the sole owner of the state. The country and the people are interested in ensuring air connections from the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U92	Thank you. There are also questions for you, Minister! Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you for your answers. But unfortunately, they were not very encouraging. And I asked when the corporate councils approved the business plan of the companies, and I mean both established airlines, and why it took so long. Secondly, are you ready to eat your hat if Nordica goes bankrupt before 2026?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U94	Thank you. I didn't bring my hat, but I'll tell you first of all that I remember one of your own sentences in the press, I think it was your line. I didn't write it down, but you said something like that, that after you went to Nordica, everything seemed so beautiful that I wanted or believed. And let's just say that I, too, am convinced today that company leaders and other employees will do their best to ensure that this company can do its best in the position it is in. It is in the interests of the Estonian state and the people that they can manage. And our interest is that there would be competition in this area in Tallinn because, as we know about life, if competition decreases, Tallinn will become a stop where you can come in front of the plane at any time and hope that people will be here, there is nowhere else to go. As regards the financial forecasts, I have brought the figures to you and I have also described the situation. Business plans have been updated and changed, they have been discussed repeatedly in the government, all requirements have been met. Already at the time of establishment, there was a confirmed business plan, and it has been repeatedly introduced. In my opinion, the argument that there are no necessary documents is to create confusion. They've all been there since the beginning.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U95	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U96	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Speaking of the advantages of Nordica, you rightly gave an example of serving the Estonian people in the event of the Brussels accident, and there are other positive examples. However, what to deny there has also been a negative example, particularly with regard to the outdated fleet of Adria Airways, a partner of Nordica. Has Nordica's reputation been studied or, let's say, its credibility in the eyes of the Estonian consumer? Is there any evidence that the company can be compared to the Estonian Air of its time in this sense? Or is there no such data yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U97	Thank you. I have to owe an answer because I don't know that such a study would have been carried out. Perhaps Nordica has already analyzed it, I can certainly ask them. I think Erki Savisaar last spoke to them, maybe you can ask her if such a study has been carried out in the company. But the joke is that Estonian Air was also said something crisper and constantly. Estonian Air became sweet after it had to be liquidated. I hope in the case of Nordica, this cuteness comes first. I hope so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U98	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. I guess the minister doesn't want another word either. We're done answering today's last question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-10_U99	Ladies and gentlemen, who have endured bravely to the end! It is possible to participate in a free microphone for the award. Anyone who wishes can register after a hammer hit. There is no desire to participate in a free microphone. Thank you, colleagues. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.46 p.m.
