ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Monday of the 3rd working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U2	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I and 19 other members of the Central Party Group have an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. The inquiry concerns the underfunding of the Rescue Board and the shortage of rescuers. In fact, we are concerned that, after Arto Aas proposed that 0.7% of the jobs in the government sector be cut off, workers in the Rescue Board have also fallen even further. Despite the repeated talk in this Chamber that it is as if the last line is at hand, that there is nowhere to be drawn, it seems that there is still a reduction in the number of rescuers. We believe that this threatens internal security and the ability of rescuers to save and help people. We do not have the people or the resources, or the money, that the rescuers need. We therefore have five questions for Mr Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U3	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U4	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! I am pleased to see the Minister of Finance who also entered the back corner of the hall. Today we have a question for him. Just in case, we'll give you another one for a long time. The subject is heavy fuel oil excise. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to my written question, which also touched on this issue and eloquently pointed out that heavy fuel oil consumption has exploded since the very clear difference in excise duty appears. Indeed, the excise duty on heavy fuel oil is low and it is a public secret that it is mixed with the aim of obtaining a cheap fuel mixture similar to diesel. There has been a lucrative business that the press has discussed under the headings 'New tricks of fuel traders', 'The increase in excise duty paved the way for fraud', 'Fuel mixers cripple car engines', etc. It is a pleasure that the Ministry of Finance has promised solutions; unfortunately, these solutions have been unacceptably delayed. This is how we want to find out how much money the country has lost because of this and why this issue has still not been regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U5	As representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U6	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates three draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the university law and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, Maris Lauri, Minister of Education and Science, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the 2016 State Budget Act, thirdly, the draft law on investment funds and fourthly, the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on approving the State's summary report for the financial year 2015. In processing these three drafts in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U7	I have adopted four drafts and two inquiries. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we process them. Incoming check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are absent. Agenda. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at the Riigikogu on Wednesday 28 September. On the basis of § 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I will add to the agenda of 28 September and add to the first item the political statement of Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. With this clarification, honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the third working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, with 0 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U8	There is an inquiry on the agenda today by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Andres Herkel, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik and Krista Aru. On behalf of the heirs, Andres Ammas will introduce it to us. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U9	Honourable President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu who are interested in asking questions! You all know well about the big and small lies and statistics of the old-fashioned turnover phrase. The politician usually finds suitable statistical data to support his claims. In most cases, the coalition finds some data and opposition's different data. In the spring of this year, two media announcements, both of which dealt with shadow economic research, worried the inquisitives. One was a survey by the Stockholm School of Economics in Riga, the other was a survey by the Estonian Institute of Economic Research on the Shadow Economy. According to both companies, in 2015, the share of the shadow economy in Estonia increased and the share of the population in favour of paying envelope wages increased. We were particularly concerned by these announcements because, according to official data, the share of the shadow economy in Estonia had decreased over many years, and the attitude of the Estonian people towards the shadow economy and the wages of the envelope had shown trends in improvement. We suspected that such a change in the attitude of the Estonian people could be quite directly related to the excise increases in the current government and also to the realisation of the idea of tax refunds for low-paid people starting next year. We found the first comments on the subject from the Director of the Conjuncture Institute, Marje Josing, who said that preference for envelope wages for small wages could result in the hope of a tax refund. Marek Helmi, Director-General of the Tax and Customs Board, has been very concerned about the tendency that young people in particular have become more favourable about envelope wages. We are very pleased if the Minister for Finance, Mr Sester, can disprove these claims and take our concern away from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U10	The inquiry is answered with general pleasure by Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to be with you, to convey my thoughts and to comment specifically on issues relating to the growth of the shadow economy and the attitude towards envelope wages. To begin with, I will comment on the issue of the shadow economy and the issue of envelope salaries in general. In order to estimate the volume of unpaid taxes, the tax hole shall be measured. This information is not yet available for 2015, as the necessary baseline data resulting from the methodology for calculating the tax hole is not yet available. This report will be produced in October of this year. But let's look at the final facts! In 2014, the tax pit was EUR 411.8 million. A year earlier, it was EUR 100 million higher: EUR 514.4 million. The biggest part of the tax hole and its reduction is the VAT hole, which was EUR 224.7 million in 2014. Compared to 2013, the VAT gap decreased by around 56 million euros in 2014. The main reason for the reduction in the VAT gap was, according to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the preparation for receiving the VAT return supplement. There is also a draft in the Riigikogu proceedings aimed at reducing VAT fraud in the metal sector. The decrease in labour tax losses in 2014 was mainly due to the increase in employers' legal compliance, which was facilitated by the introduction of the employee register. In 2014, the labour tax gap amounted to approximately EUR 100 million. Given that labour taxes are growing rapidly, there cannot have been very drastic changes in envelope wages, but of course we are monitoring the labour market closely. Now to the questions of the questioners. The first question: 'How does the State intend to control the right of low-paid workers to a tax refund in a situation where the Director of the Tax and Customs Board has said that the Office does not have the resources to check? 'The purpose of refunding income tax is to reduce the tax burden on those who receive low wages and therefore we pay them back part or all of the income tax paid. We are doing this to make low-wage work more profitable and to reduce poverty, so that it promotes both employment and entry into the labour market. It is not reasonable that people who earn a minimum wage or just a little over a minimum wage and live at risk of poverty will still have to pay hundreds of euros of income tax a year from this poor income. This is a reduction in the tax burden, which ultimately leaves the income earned more for those working on low wages. The refund formula also ensures that people are always more useful in earning more income. Since this is precisely a targeted tax refund, it is several times more effective than raising tax-free income for all taxpayers. It is a tried-and-tested tax model elsewhere in the world, which, plus, is precisely because such a refund reduces poverty, while maintaining the motivation to work and earn more revenue. Unlike the increase in the minimum wage, the refund does not increase the tax burden and costs of companies, but increases the income of those working on low wages. As far as verification is concerned, the Tax and Customs Board started the development of the annual reimbursement processes and information system of a low-income working person at the beginning of this year. Repayments are therefore made and verified. The repayment process, including the verification criteria, will be largely automated. In addition, I will explain that the Tax and Customs Board is planning control activities depending on the fiscal impact of fraud. In the case of the reimbursement of low-wage earners, the risk of unjustified repayment is linked in particular to the situation where an envelope salary has been paid to the employees. The verification of this reimbursement is therefore to a large extent linked to the examination of the envelope salary. Where the Tax and Customs Board becomes aware of the fact that an additional refund is unjustified for reasons other than the receipt of an envelope salary, the normal administrative procedure shall be initiated. The second question: 'The increase in the proportion of workers who receive illegal income from agricultural holdings is probably linked to the difficult situation in agriculture. What additional measures does the government intend to support the agricultural sector? " Of course, the situation in agriculture is also of concern to the government. A total of more than EUR 300 million is planned in the 2017 budget to support the agricultural sector. About 190 million euros of support will be made available through the Estonian Rural Development Plan, including the co-financing of external support of 32.9 million euros. Direct payments to farmers amount to EUR 123.7 million. In addition, there are market organisation measures for agriculture, as well as school milk aid. The government's most recent step in supporting the agricultural sector is to direct an additional 3 million euros from the 2016 state budget by changing the state budget, which the Riigikogu will immediately process. The additional EUR 3 million for the agricultural sector in difficulty are planned to be paid together with the planned EUR 4.6 million from the 2017 budget. In addition, the European Union has come up with a Europe-wide support package, of which 8.081 million euros has been allocated to Estonia. In particular, the aid shall be targeted at milk producers. The relevant implementing regulation at EU level was discussed on 25 August. Estonia will have to develop its own scheme in October at the latest. The government has also approved a revision of the rural development plan: we propose that new support be added to farmers to restore production potential destroyed by animal diseases and plant damage. An additional EUR 1 million will be allocated to the new aid, in particular to increase the production potential of the pig sector affected by African swine fever. Question 3: 'Why has the government consistently refused to pay additional transitional support for agriculture (still this year) and crisis support for smaller dairy herds? ' The European Commission is looking at, and we are also looking at, support for the agricultural sector together, i.e. the MAK grants and direct payments together. The volume of support to the agricultural sector in the current programming period will increase by EUR 226 million, or 13.5%, compared to the previous period. The Minister for Rural Affairs has said that they would be increasingly ineffective by paying additional transitional payments, because the payment entitlement is based on production references which do not characterise the current need for support. The government's policy is therefore to support the agricultural sectors with the greatest problems, some of which would not receive transitional support, from its own resources. In order to improve the situation of smaller dairy herds, the Ministry of Rural Affairs will make changes to direct payments as of 2017 in such a way that more than 90% of dairy herds will receive more support than at present. Support per dairy cow for farms with up to 100 dairy cows is increasing from the current EUR 100 to EUR 200. No aid is currently paid to farms with 101.400 dairy cows, but from 2017 onwards €100 per dairy cow will be paid. According to the reference documents of 31 December 2015, this aid concerns 96% of Estonian dairy herds. Question 4: "How do you see today that companies that do not pay envelope wages are also able to compete in public procurement? ' Under the Public Procurement Act, it is also possible to support the fulfilment of secondary objectives from the point of view of public procurement law and to take account of social, employment, tax and environmental aspects. The current Public Procurement Act, as well as the new draft Public Procurement Act, states that a provider who has a tax debt, a social security contribution or an environmental fee in accordance with the legislation of the country in which he is established must be removed from the public procurement procedure. According to the current law, this is checked at the date of the opening of the tender procedure. According to the new draft Public Procurement Act, in public procurement procedures, the tenderer will be given the opportunity to improve its tax behaviour and pay off its tax debt. The contracting authority shall verify the existence of a tax debt by the tenderer as at the date of the decision, which is not known to the tenderer. At the same time, the contracting authority may verify the existence of a tax debt throughout the procurement procedure and, if the tenderer has incurred a tax debt, withdraw it from the procedure. It is important that the economic operator to whom the contract is awarded does not have a tax debt. The version of the Public Procurement Act, which entered into force on 1 May 2007, contained a provision whereby the contracting authority could withdraw from the procurement procedure a person who has paid social and social security contributions per employee over the last year for less than 70% of the sum of the social and social security contributions per employee on average salary per employee in his country of residence and region. In addition to an analysis of the practical problems encountered in the application of this provision, it became apparent that this is contrary to the Constitution, namely to § 11 and § 31 of the Constitution. The provision was repealed less than a year later. In addition to the above, the current Public Procurement Act, but even more so in the new draft Public Procurement Act, provides for the possibility of excluding tenders whose value is, in the opinion of the contracting authority, abnormally low. However, the current Public Procurement Act gives the contracting authority the right to accept an abnormally low tender if the tenderer reaffirms that it is actually performing a contract with that value. According to the new draft law on public procurement, this discretion is severely restricted. Where, after examining the tenderer's explanation and consulting the tenderer, the contracting authority finds that the tender is abnormally low, it shall no longer be entitled to consider the rejection of the tender. It has to be rejected. It is also expressly stated that a tender must be rejected if its low value is due to failure to comply with the environmental, social and labour law provisions in force in the performance of the contract. Thus, if the contracting authority becomes aware of the fact that the tenderer has submitted a strangely low tender, it pays its employees an envelope salary, it can reject that tender. In order to ensure fairer competition, the Tax Administration Act will also be supplemented. This draft is currently under preparation and the tax authorities have the right to publish on their website the amount of tax paid by the taxable person during the quarter in summary form by the 10th day following the quarter. Question 5: "What conclusions does the government draw from the actual collection of excise duties this year, and what changes in legislation are you planning in this regard? 'The total receipts of excise duties for eight months have exceeded both the budgetary expectations and the level of the previous year: 3.1% and 11% respectively. Compared to last year, alcohol duty has increased by 14.6% and fuel excise has also increased by 14% compared to the previous year. If, in the case of alcohol, the receipts have been affected by the stocks acquired, the impact of the stocks on fuel has been largely reversed and since July the quantities have reached normal levels. Despite the increase in the rate of excise duty, the declared quantities of diesel and petrol have increased, while the quantities of beer and spirits have decreased compared to the previous year. Tobacco excise has increased by 2.1% compared to last year. At the same time, we are closely monitoring the monthly collection of excise duties. Due to the receipts of excise duties on fuel and tobacco, there is currently no need to change these rates of excise duty. I am more concerned about alcohol duty, particularly in the case of strong alcohol and border trade. According to the Ministry of Finance, the impact of alcohol purchased from Latvia by private persons near the Estonian border is 4% in the middle and the Ministry will also closely monitor the receipts for the coming months. I do not rule out the need for the government to return to this issue. Let's see what the incomes will be like in the short term. Excise policy, in particular in the case of alcohol and tobacco, aims to reduce consumption alongside the collection of budget revenues. If excise duties are reduced due to a decrease in consumption, there is reason to be satisfied, as the harm caused by alcohol and tobacco consumption will also be reduced. However, the impact of excise policy on the quantities consumed must also be analysed in a situation where more alcohol and tobacco are imported across borders than in the past. Although the quantities consumed in border trade are simply purchased elsewhere, it should not be forgotten that the majority of alcohol and tobacco is still purchased in Estonia. Therefore, there is no reason to believe that excise duties on these products have no impact on consumption. It is true that border trade reduces this impact and therefore the situation needs to be monitored. The Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity also provides as a separate paragraph that the Government of the Republic shall submit an analysis to the Riigikogu by 1 March 2018 at the latest and, if necessary, make proposals to amend the rates of excise duty. Question 6: 'How do you comment on the statement in the media that you have proposed to the government to review the pace of the increase in excise duty and to refrain from increasing VAT on accommodation establishments? ' With regard to VAT on accommodation, I would remind you that the government has considered both the economic indicators of the sector and the competitive situation thoroughly in the spring of last year. I then proposed that certain differences be maintained instead of the harmonisation of the initially proposed VAT rate. Finally, it was agreed to set a rate of 14% of VAT, which the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Government of the Riigikogu, also legalised. Thus, the discount rate for accommodation services was maintained and is one of the few sectors supported by such a measure. Looking at our immediate neighbours, we can see that in Sweden and Latvia, VAT on accommodation services is 12%, i.e. at a similar level. This year the number of tourists in Estonia has continued to increase. For example, during the high season of tourism in July, according to Statistics Estonia, 488000 domestic and foreign tourists stopped in Estonian accommodation companies, i.e. 6% more than in July last year. Moreover, it cannot be noted that the development of the tourism sector is supported by the State in a substantial way by financing tourism-oriented measures of an amount of EUR 100 million during the current budgetary period of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U12	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, would you be so kind as to explain to us why this happened last year, this increase in the share of the shadow economy and the share of the envelope wages, as the studies show? What is the negative impact of the entry into office of Taavi's garment government and the whole tax package that has become famous under the cluster law? More specifically, however, I would also like to comment on the statement made by Marje Josing, Director of the Conjuncture Institute, that, in the case of a small salary, the preference for envelope wages may be precisely the hope of a tax refund.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U14	Thank you. As I said in my reply to the question, I would like to wait for more precise estimates and more detailed analyses to be received in October from both the Tax and Customs Board and Statistics. We will then be able to see clearly how big the so-called 'tax pit' has become and what it is made up of in particular. If we look at the trend of recent years, we will rather see the opposite of what has been said. We can see, in essence, that, if in 2008 the tax gap was slightly above 3% of GDP, namely 3.05%, amounting to EUR 503.9 million, then today our country's increase in GDP has fallen to 411 million, which is 2.06% of GDP. As a percentage of GDP, we have thus reduced the tax gap. Certainly in October, we can already look more closely at what the context for 2015 will be. But what has an important country done? The State has helped to ensure that taxes are easy to pay and that no one would have a competitive advantage if they did not pay taxes. One such example is the working register, which brought a great many people to the picture who were not there before. The possibility that the non-payment of taxes had created a competitive advantage in selling its services or goods disappeared. But the declaration of 1000-euro bills has also brought problems to companies that have taken advantage of the competitive advantage. They have been forced to declare them and the income tax has now been received by almost 100 million more. As far as the tax refund for low-paid people is concerned, as I mentioned earlier, I rather consider it to be positive. We have brought a large number of people to the picture who, in the past, were not in the labour market because of the context of envelope wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U15	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! How do you comment on Mr Marek Helmi, Director-General of the Tax and Customs Board, that he believes that there is a very worrying tendency among young people: the attitude of young people towards envelope wages has become more favourable and supportive? Do you think there's a reason, or is it just Marek Helmi's gut? What's your comment? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U17	Thank you. How do I comment on someone else's comments? I admit I'm concerned about a lot of things. I am concerned about border trade and I am concerned that our tax gap will not increase. The state must take steps to minimise the tax gap, which consists not only of envelope wages, but also of less VAT and other taxes. We have been very effective compared to the overall European level. We are moving forward at a pretty good pace in reducing our tax gap. Of course, if you ask whether the state should pay even more attention to envelope wages and possible VAT fraud, whether the state can better prevent the use of competitive advantages by means of one measure or another, then of course the answer is yes. Of course, I am concerned about all of this, and I think that Parliament as a whole is also concerned about it. But the various activities that the country has launched show that attention is paid to this concern. One example is the reverse charge of semi-finished metals. We see that there are problems in this area, so the necessary changes must be made and you currently have on your desk a draft reverse charge for semi-finished metals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U18	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question relates to the issue of the first question of inquiry, i.e. the tax refund system for low-paid workers. The Tax and Customs Board is concerned that new tasks will be assigned to them, but no resources are available. My question is very specific: what are the costs of launching a new refund system linked to information technology, work processes and so on? And does it involve hiring new employees or redirecting people? So the question of human resources is, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U20	Thank you. Yes, of course, there are always costs for each system to start up. Perhaps you still remember the adoption of a specific law, it has come from your own hands, you yourself have approved this bill, and it is all well written in the explanatory memorandum. I'm telling you right now, I'm telling you, this amount was 1.2 million euros. It is certainly worth reviewing the impact of a specific draft in the explanatory memorandum, as it was then assessed, which I am now offering by memory. But, yes, of course, every system comes with costs. With regard to the labour force in this particular case, whether there is a need to take more people, it is certainly worth asking the Tax and Customs Board for a question. But you have to look at the whole picture. It's always a whole picture question, isn't it? For example, in the case of tax receipts, if we look at one type of tax and say that some kind of tax receipts are less than forecast, it is always worth looking at the overall picture, what the total tax receipts are. If all taxes are less, then costs must be deducted. Here in the same way: if you look at the work of the head of the Tax and Customs Board, which he has done over the last few years, I would say this is a model example of state reform. Better work is being done with lower human resources. At this point, I certainly congratulate the head of the Tax and Customs Board and set him as an example to all the leaders working in the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U21	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. It was nice to hear your report of a reduction in the tax hole. But the respondents believe that one dangerous trend is getting worse among young people. I see a lack of trust in the country in favor of envelope wages. Isn't there a danger that the state is cheating on people by its actions? Is this tendency to favour lower wages not a threat to the state? After all, this involves a lower pension in old age. If all of this is not taken into account, then the result is a lack of trust in the state. Don't you see that dangerous tendency?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U23	Thank you. I think you got a little confused. I'm so sorry I said that. No one favors a lower salary. On the contrary, my message to you was that it is not right for a salary such as the minimum wage of EUR 490, EUR 500, EUR 600, to be clearly below the median wage, that the state is taking income tax from it. What are we talking about? We should start to think more and more about how to channel public resources into those sectors where it is needed. This is a tax refund for low-paid workers, these are different subsidy schemes, and our state budget is not suffering. However, I do not think that there is a better example of targeting than the tax refund for low-paid workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U24	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U25	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I'm sorry in advance that maybe I got it all mixed up, too. And thank you in advance for a very good answer, because you won't be allowed to thank me at the end. But I was thrilled by this section of the answer, in which you spoke on an occasional basis about agricultural aid, about how the state helps the dairy farmer survive and gives him support. You see, people speak different languages and the language of Parliament sometimes needs to be translated. I'm glad some things go up by 4%, another 6% or 8%, it's always good when something heals. Rural people have other criteria. As for the cows, the best old saying about them is that the cow brings wealth to the family house. It's a little bit worse, you know, when you're in trouble, it's gonna end up like this. The third saying is, "It's good for a cow to keep its skin on in the spring. ' Then comes the dotted line, and at the end of all, the decision is to 'Ree and rattle!' '. Can you translate finance into rural language? Where are we in this line of statements, thanks to these good subsidies, in fact? I know I'm not quite there yet for 'Ree and shit! "Say time. Is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U26	Thank you. It's always a question of where we're going on our way. In order to find out where we are, we should set a starting point and a destination, we would know where we are on this road. Otherwise, if you give me a five, you wonder if it's in a five-ball system or a ten-ball system. When it comes to content, I always think the question is that one thing is assessments and the other is facts. That's the way it is in life. It is difficult to debate when one speaks on the basis of estimates and the other on the basis of facts. If someone says I don't like this thing, it's a clean assessment, and I don't have anything to say about it. I speak on the basis of facts. And on the basis of the facts, I note that if we take the two funding periods of the previous period of funding from the European Union and the current period of funding from 2014 to 2020 there is a difference of 226 million. It's like family. Each family must count all income received: how much it gave to pay and how much it gives to other fees that are received. That is a clear fact. Let us see what changes the country is making. By setting different budgetary positions in a ranking, we will pay extra to farmers from our budget. I have already pointed out that, when it comes to dairy cows, the Minister for Rural Affairs has done a great deal of work to pay new subsidies to milk producers. Existing grants have been increased and new ones have also come. When we look at small herds of less than 100 dairy cows, their support is essentially doubled: from EUR 100 to EUR 200. The dairy herds with 100-400 cows were not supported at all before. Now they are given 100 euros per dairy cow. It is therefore clear that the grant will be directed to where the problems are greatest. As I mentioned, in 2016, which is a few months to go, due to the changes that have taken place, the tax payer's money in Estonia will be allocated an additional 3 million euros to solve problems in this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U27	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U28	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! As we know, there is currently a law in Estonia that the employer has to pay the minimum social tax for employees who are not in fact fully employed. This is particularly the case in rural areas. This is one of the reasons why an employer may at times prefer to pay the envelope salary, rather than pay the salary fairly. How do you comment on the possibility of changing this order? Perhaps to replace the minimum social tax charge with, for example, an hourly tax payment system? Perhaps it would reduce the proportion of the envelope wage paid in our society?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U29	Thank you. I think we should look at everything in full, both the social tax floor you talked about and the social tax ceiling. Both issues have been on the agenda with their pros and cons over time. Both of these issues have their pros and cons. On the one hand, this principle of solidarity arises both from the floor and from the top. There is a question of the extent to which potential high-wage places are to be created and whether this will give the effect that is hoped for. If you ask me, I am, and probably all parliamentary parties are ready for debate, to discuss possible pros and cons. I'm sure we should be ready for that. However, any such proposal should be preceded by an impact analysis in order to know what the pros and cons are. After all, there may be both represented in any change. And if the pros outweigh the cons of any proposal, then it should be implemented. It's about common sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U30	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U31	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. We were just talking about estimates and facts, and before that, we were talking about a tax hole. I think we've shared a few thoughts here a few times before that we have an estimate of the tax gap. Why don't we talk again about how exactly we're measuring the tax hole? How do we measure the amount of money that could actually come into the budget but will not come? How will this assessment come about?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U32	Thank you. I will send you my written answer on how the various public authorities calculate it. Of course, this is an assessment, and no authority knows exactly how much money was finally not collected. However, there are clear indicators on the basis of which a hypothetical tax hole is calculated not only in Estonia but also in all other countries. These figures are more or less the same for the countries, otherwise it would not be possible to compare each other's positions. I'll have that information sent to you separately what the formulas are. If you're asking what the dynamics of these equations are, it can be measured. Let's look at one particular year, the last year, the year 2014. The tax hole was 411.8 million be advised, the decimal point has been calculated and the breakdown was such that VAT accounted for the largest part of it: 55%, or 225 million euros. The size of the following was social tax, then income tax, then excise duties: excise duties on tobacco, fuel and alcohol. If we look at the dynamics of how things have changed over the years, as I said to one of the questioners, we have done well in that sense. Effective measures have been put in place at government level to be effective. For this, we have also been praised by the entrepreneurs. Please note that reducing the tax hole has a dual effect. On the one hand, it is important for the state to collect taxes. So we can channel money into different good things, so these are subsidies, investments or something else. But on the other hand, it is also important for businesses, because the tax hole actually means that someone enjoys a competitive advantage by not paying the tax. It is very important for businesses to limit this competitive advantage. If we look at the picture on a sectoral basis, we can see that in the fuel sector, the oil union worked closely with the country to reduce tax fraud in this market. We worked closely with the metal sector to introduce VAT reverse charge in the metal sector. Work is currently being done to ensure that, in the future, I expect fuel volumes to move by electronic means in 2018. The Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are working on this project. It is estimated that in the future, thanks to the fact that the delivery pages are electronic, EUR 10 million more can be collected. The movement of all types of fuel from the excise warehouse to the wholesaler and from it to the retailer will then be better monitored on Estonian territory. The whole journey is electronically monitored all the time. The state is working to reduce the tax hole in different positions, in my opinion, relatively well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U33	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U34	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The tax is mainly paid on a voluntary basis and it is beneficial for the state to develop entrepreneurship: the more businesses there are, the greater the tax receipts. At the same time, we have often seen that it is small businesses that are being penalised who are caught with minor misdemeanours. For those who are big and get caught with heavy tax fraud, the owls can't impose any punishment. There is so much to see such screaming injustices. As a member of your government, have you considered how to encourage the creation of new businesses? For example, have you thought about allowing companies, in the first two years, to have lower tax rates or any other incentive measures for us to grow more and more business?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U35	Thank you. You see, at the beginning of your question, you gave an assessment: you said that you thought that the big carriages were running and the little ones were on the gallows. In essence, your questioning was this. Such an assessment should certainly be based on facts. I'm not gonna argue with you because I don't want to judge here. But you asked whether the state was motivating the start of a small business. Here is the question of what types of motivation should we use in this case. After all, regional motivational measures have been discussed, for example, in Ida-Viru County a 3% lower social tax rate should apply. However, I am not sure that such a specific advantage would be the most appropriate one. This would mean that a company that operates elsewhere would be registered in Ida-Virumaa. Then it would have a 3% lower social tax rate. If you say that you should check whether there is any action going on there, in the end, the control of all this will be very expensive for the country and the expected monetary victory will not come. If we are discussing what the country is doing to create new entrepreneurs here, we have quite a number of measures. The main priorities of this government are the reduction of labour taxes, which is one of the five key priorities that the government is pursuing. The reduction in social tax, the increase in tax-free income, the refund of the tax on low-paid workers are all measures that alleviate the life of an entrepreneur or employee. This is certainly an important message to compete in the market with other countries. The following are the various support measures for start-ups and enterprises already in employment, ranging from start-up capital to potential export refunds. Finally, legislative changes that do not fall under subsidies or tax changes, but give the operating company the knowledge that they do not need to fight fraudsters who for some reason do not pay taxes. The same register of work is one of the best examples. It cannot be overlooked how easy it is to create one company in Estonia. Estonia is certainly at the forefront in this respect. As noted, a situation has been achieved in a few years where it is possible to start a business in 20 minutes instead of 30 minutes. Moral, however, is that efforts are being made to ensure that there is a desire to set up businesses here. Money doesn't come from a machine gun. As a member of the Riigikogu told me: 'Sven, money comes from the state budget. " No money comes from the state budget, money comes from companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U36	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U37	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! You have talked about agriculture for a long time here, and I would like to continue on this subject. We had a meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs today where we talked about pig farming in Estonia. That is what my question is about. I'm sure you're aware that if we had 900 more pig owners by the end of 2014, it's 160 today. This means that 82% of pigmeat producers have had to close their doors because of the crisis. What are the specific measures? And why have the measures taken not borne fruit and Estonian pig farming can actually die out?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U38	Thank you. I'm sure the Minister for Agriculture will be able to bring you up to speed on these measures. Of course, every minister in the sector knows exactly what the aim of one or another measure is. But if you look at what the state is doing, you will understand that state aid in solving the problem can primarily consist in allocating money. What do you see? You will see real spending from the state budget last year, this year and next year in particular in problem sectors, including pig farming.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U39	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You were talking here about strengthening national control over the flow of fuel. But I have this question: should the purchase of fuel from Russia be included in the shadow economy? We know that in Luhamaa, four gas stations are running on the Russian side with full capacity, but on our side, there's only one ground that's been treated, there's no point in making a gas station there. Is it possible for the state to take any measures to get it under control there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U41	Thank you, good question! I remember, of course, as a person who worked in Parliament for a long time, that we once had debates here on the introduction of excise goods from so-called third countries. Inara Luigas started debates on this. He complained that if we put any restrictions on it, we could kill out the border trade. To date, time and quantitative restrictions have been imposed on the entry of excise goods from third countries. The restrictions used to be, but now they're much tougher. The Tax and Customs Board, of course, controls it, it is under very strong control. For example, there is a so-called 'number recognition system' in Estonia, which automatically gives an alarm bell if a car keeps going somewhere in a third country. We are not talking about movement within the European Union, but precisely about the introduction of third countries, such as Russian excise goods. It must not be the case that every day the product, for example, blocks of smoke and the secret market, flourishes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U42	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U43	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Let's get one thing straight. Let us be precise, Minister. In this Chamber, I think there is exactly one person who was in favour of accepting the tax refund for low-paid workers and who can say yes, he approved it. Because of his duties, he's sitting behind me right now. There are no more in this hall. He accepted it at your insistence, but we haven't accepted it here. So when you told us that we ourselves should, like, be responsible for how much the tax refund for low-paid workers costs the state, I can say in response to my colleague Monika that the cost of launching this system in the first year is EUR 1.56 million and the annual cost of maintaining the system is EUR 560000. Not a very small amount of money. But now for today's question. Indeed, until 2014, the shadow economy in Estonia was declining. In this respect, the Minister is absolutely right. And when comparing 2014 and 2013 data, everything seems to be fine. Can we say the same after the data from October on last year? Inquiries are afraid not. Because in spring 2015, the government took office, whose active activities could lead to a break in the positive trend that has lasted for at least 10 years. The minister was talking about big numbers here. For my part, I promise to add a few more here, even for the sake of the verbatim. Indeed, the country loses a lot of money every year because of the shadow economy. For example, it has been calculated that due to the illegal alcohol market, the country lost around EUR 11.8 million in excise duty and VAT in 2014 and consumed a total of 1.4 million litres of secret alcohol. Illegal cigarette trade resulted in a loss of approximately EUR 58,5 million in excise duty and VAT. In the form of unpaid taxes, the payment of envelope wages resulted in a loss of EUR 93 million in 2014. Indeed, the Minister must agree that changes in the registration of employment have led to many positive changes. But a persistently big problem, which has not been invented by the heirs, but has also been acknowledged, for example, by Tõnis Kuuse, Head of the Information Department of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, is the consistent payment of part of the envelope wage. As I introduced the inquiry, I recalled an old turnover joke about statistics. Researchers in the shadow economy are also not at all in agreement on the shadow economy. Last year the newspaper Postimees journalist Marge Tubalkain published an article that says that Estonia's shadow economy estimates vary almost ten times. You heard right: almost ten times! May I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U44	It's okay. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U45	Thank you. According to researchers, in 2014 the shadow economy accounted for 3 to 26% of Estonia's GDP, depending on the calculation methodology. How is that possible? You will see that in this statistics everyone will find suitable figures. The shadow economy is examined by various institutions. First of all, Statistics Estonia, which assesses the shadow economy as one component of national accounts. Efforts are being made to capture the share of financial transactions in the shadow economy in the sheltered workforce, smuggling, envelope wages, tax fraud. In recent years, they estimate that the share of the shadow economy has remained between 3% and 4%. At the request of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Estonian Conjuncture Institute investigates the shadow economy. They focus on envelope wages and private consumption in consumer panel polls. According to their figures, the share of the shadow economy compared to total human spending over the last five years has been 6 to 9%. They must have been doing this very consistently since 1998. The Stockholm Higher School of Economics in Riga is conducting a survey among entrepreneurs with the same content, whose research is also referred to by the respondents. The results of this study are much sadder. In 2014, they estimated the share of Estonia's shadow economy to be 13.2% compared to GDP. The most dramatic results, however, have been achieved by the Austrian economic professor Friedrich Schneider, who has his own specific mathematical model. It uses indirect indicators affecting the shadow economy, such as tax burden, bureaucracy, quality of public services, tax standards, unemployment, GDP per capita. According to his calculations, the Baltics have one of the largest shadow economies in Europe at all, and he has said that in Estonia this was 26.2% compared to GDP last year. Andres Võrk of Praxis has discussed his methodology, including shortcomings. Therefore, we do not have an exact answer to the size of Estonia's shadow economy. The various investigators have come up with very different results. In order to find out the truth, it is probably necessary to find a middle ground between these results. To sum it up. Honorable Minister! I congratulate you on your best efforts to convince us: the problem is small and things are constantly improving. But you failed to convince us. A tendency is important and we think it is bad. We look forward to October and the data you referred to. If necessary, we will be happy to continue this discussion with you. Let's hope you agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U46	Thank you, Andres Ammas! No more members of the Riigikogu wish to participate in the negotiations, but the Minister does. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Also in the state budget procedure, I am ready to respond at length and thoroughly, naively hoping that somebody in the opposition will support the budget. By the end of the day, it still turns out that no one supported anything, and they say that everything you said was bullshit. I will certainly not be able to comment on all the questions that my good colleague Andres Ammas has put on the table, but I want to make a point. It's a tax refund for low-paid people. I guess I misunderstood, but I thought you guys were proud to say that there was only one person in this hall who supported it. That no one has supported it except Eiki Nestor. You know, I say to you: I believe that tax policy is a new and important target with this tax refund for low-paid people. What do I mean by that? We have reached a situation where we are directing taxpayers' money precisely to those who need it most. We will increase the tax-free income from which the state will not charge income tax by 10 euros next year. You've got this line rising, I've got it rising, and everyone else is rising. However, this measure is not in practice targeted at a particular group of people. The tax-free minimum will rise for everyone, and I'm not saying it's bad. If the country has a lot of resources, it is worth raising everyone. If you ask me if I am in favour of everyone taking no income tax at the minimum of EUR 5 000, then yes, of course I am. But the country doesn't have that much resources right now, it just doesn't! And under limited resource conditions, we must try to target taxpayers' money as best it is, and with the tax refund of low-paid workers, we will do just that. A person who receives EUR 500 or 600 will be able to recover tax in whole or in part after the tax return is completed next spring. Believe me, 500-600 euros is not a lot of money! It's not a lot of money, let's try to live with it! Once again, I urge you not to be proud that you are opposed or opposed to it. On the contrary, I think we should start thinking more and more about this ambition. We have 103000 people who will fill out their tax return in the spring of next year and make a tick in the right place and receive tax returns to a greater or lesser extent. 103000 people receive 500 or 600 euros per month! Consider the fact that Estonia's average wage is already 1100 euros and grows 5.5% per year in kaps. As you know, in the coming years, it will, in essence, reach close to 1200 euros next year. EUR 500-600 per month! I would say that the idea of taking their income tax is by its very nature that it needs to be addressed. I think that this will also be the case in the future with different support mechanisms. When we talk about support mechanisms, the more we are able to channel real support on a need-based basis, for those who really need help, the better we have managed taxpayers' money. In my opinion, all members of the Riigikogu should want as much taxpayers' money as possible to be directed to those who actually need help. It's kind of nice, but it's just really expensive. And we certainly don't have that option in our limited resource situation. Once again, I stress that the tax refund for low-paid people reduces poverty and keeps the motivation to work and earn more income. I think it's a very good law. I can also promise you one thing: as long as the IRL is in the government, this amendment will not be made to cancel the tax refund for low-wage earners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U48	I will also close the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U49	Free mike. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U50	Thank you for the floor. I would like to share some thoughts with my colleagues. Dear people, who are sitting here in this Chamber, who are making laws and who are thinking for the people, who are helping him and who have to stand up for him, it seems to me that we have recently lost political gentlemanship. I think we've been forgetting about gallantry politics lately. I can still name a number of nice words here. Look what happened in the presidential election! A presidential candidate was promoted a year and a half ago. For a few months, everyone campaigned, argued about principles, worldview. Hot, hot, hot debates came. The day before the election on Saturday came out of the results of a public opinion survey which said that one candidate is the favourite of the people, he is loved by And, dear people, the next day we scored so few points for this people's favorite that he lost. The people's favourite was the biggest loser in the election. 61 people did not make their ballots colourful at all. What was going on in their head anyway? Where was their responsibility to their constituents? What's happened? The entire Estonian people were heated up in the hope that we would get a real president, a woman or a man, women, by the way, lost. Now that these big debates are behind us, it turns out we can't pick him. Now we're sitting in the back room of the Riigikogu, I don't know whether behind coffee cups or tea cups, and we agree that maybe we can find a nice Estonian person who could be put on the spot so that the international scandal isn't bigger for God's sake. The smaller scandal is not presently in Estonia's largest opposition party, with 15,000 members in the Central Party. For 25 years, this party has been built. He's powerful, he's a powerful brotherhood or a friendship, how to say it. For 25 years there has been a powerful man who has changed Estonia's politics, as he felt good and as the voters wanted. He has won almost all the Riigikogu elections, but he has not been admitted to the government because he has been too hard, too strong. And now suddenly, 25 years later, he is told, "Dad, go away and give us the house, please! " Twenty - five years later, students who have been raised for 10 to 15 years will say: " Teacher, go away, or we will stab you in the back. You're still alive? Give up your life's work and we'll sell this thing! ' 24 hours were given on Saturday evening to convene the board of the Centre Party for the next day. The chairman never got there. The chairman did not make it there, and many members did not make it there. And yet one illegal decision is made: the party's secretary-general, who has shown himself to be very strong, will be replaced by an actress. None of Estonia's laws provide for this! This morning, this actress comes to the office of the Central Party with a couple of high functions, kicks open the door and says, "Give me your papers! Give me your drawers! I'm in charge! ' A woman was pushed to the door and a party takeover began. The media's at the door, everyone's hurting, nobody knows what to do. Nobody's seen the documents being moved out, nobody's seen it... Jne, et cetera, et cetera. It's all illegal, as it turns out. The lawyers consulted today said it wasn't legal. And yet it's legal. The same way was taken over in its time, I remember, the new Communist, Outside Communist, which was eventually led by Tiit Toomsalu. He sat in his office and the door was struck down with an axe, the party was taken away. Similarly, large lockers, mobmen, came in and literally lifted people out of the editorial system. I was there, taking a picture. The voice of the people was taken over, made into a new daily newspaper. And that's how we've come to our culture, dear people, to the point that we're robbing parties just like we woke up the collective machine tractor parks, pocketed ourselves. We got this party, but you, old man, go home! This is our political culture today, in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U51	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U52	Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu is a place where laws and many other things that matter to people are discussed. According to my understanding, the Riigikogu is not a place where a party could wash its dirty laundry. My previous speaker began by mentioning political gentlemanship. Really, if you come in here with a remote control, everyone should have one. I came here on the remote to apologize to all of you for your last speech. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U53	Honourable Riigikogu! Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U54	Mr President, and few of us here. I want to say a few words about the failed presidential election the day before yesterday. If the election of the President in the Riigikogu was the same as jumping over a bar at a height of two metres, then in the electoral body of the state it would be about a meter over 50. We couldn't beat two meters, couldn't get a meter out of 50. For six months, we prepared a delicious meal, a new president. Honourable candidates were barbecued, various questions were asked, they were allowed to jump through the burning ring, they were examined, and Grandpa did not have the Iron Cross. But now we have to get a quick president in a week. Like Mrs. Hot Dog or Mr. Hamburger. We don't have time to barbecue anymore, we can only warm up, and we're done. No preparation, no investigation, no grandpa's Iron Cross, or what the candidate thinks of foreign, domestic and economic policy. Where have we gotten to? And the bar is not a meter fifty, it's two meters. I hope we can still find a dignified president. But I don't know who this person is, a busy person who's ready to come into this game. And given the very difficult domestic policy situation in larger political parties, it is not certain that at least 68 votes will be guaranteed for the new candidate. Maybe he can only get 67. They do, but, oh, the shame, if he's a loser too. I hope we find someone after all. My hope is that this next Estonian Head of State, who is not Mr Hamburger or Mrs McDonald's, is someone non-political. We have many distinguished academics, Villems, Academician Saarma, President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences Tarmo Soomere. We have a lot of famous cultural characters. So I hope we can find a candidate who can cross that two-metre-high bar and not be a loser. In any case, the situation is funny, even pathetic. The situation has already become ridiculous. But there's nothing to do. If you can't jump over a two-metre-high bar now, you're gonna have to jump 50 feet. Ladies and gentlemen of the electorate will have to iron their pants again at the beginning of November, gather back to the polls and cross a metre and fifty. And after that, maybe there's another two-metre-over attempt, then another six-foot-fifty. I don't know how long we're gonna try. But hope, as they say, will die last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-26_U55	The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.15 p.m.
