ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Mr. Prime Minister, Question Time starts at 1:00. Incoming check, please! 36 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Finance Sven Sester and Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, will be in briefing today. Yesterday, ten members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask a question, so I will give you the opportunity to ask a specific question during the debate on each topic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U2	The first question is for Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. Mark Twain in the 19th century said that if you don't read the papers, you don't know anything, but if you do, you know everything wrong. This is, of course, a distant history, but my question is motivated by an article just published in the Saaremaa newspaper, from which one member of your government can read a somewhat controversial view of administrative reform. As we know, the local authorities of Saaremaa have signed the merger decision, but the minister was said to have regretted that he was late in a later interview, and he felt that it would have been better to divide Saaremaa into three. Since one local authority did not join this agreement, I will ask you two questions. Does the government think that this exceptional situation, if one stays separate, is a good one? How do you comment on your colleague's view that the administrative reform in Saaremaa could have taken place in a different way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U4	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The government has clearly and unambiguously said that the administrative reform will go on and that the criteria laid down in the law will not be changed. This concerns both the population criterion and the timetable, of course, with a court reservation in mind. As we know, the Supreme Court will make its decision on administrative reform on 20 December, and of course it may affect the activities of the government, the Riigikogu and also local governments. I am undoubtedly pleased that in Saaremaa a consensus and willingness has been found to become a county-sized municipality. I think it's good and reasonable. In general, this is, I think, one of the best examples of the voluntary administrative reform process. In any case, I congratulate these municipalities for the work they have done. I must honestly admit that I have also read in the newspaper that in some private conversations a member of the Government of the Republic has thought something else, but I do not consider it possible to comment more precisely, because I really cannot control the credibility of this statement or the broader background. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, I can say that the administrative reform is moving forward within previously agreed frameworks.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U5	Urve Tiidus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U6	Thank you for your answer. Minister, I would like to ask for clarification. You have not commented on this exception at the moment. If you could do that, it would be very nice. But how do you generally predict the progress of the administrative reform process, both with regard to existing laws and regulations and with regard to deadlines?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U7	Thank you. If you ask for further details, ask for this exception separately. I'm sorry, but I didn't exactly notice what exception we were talking about. But as for the wider implementation of the administrative reform, as foreseen in the timetable, the phase of voluntary mergers will be over by the end of this year. Then, in the second stage, the Government of the Republic joins those municipalities that do not meet the criteria. Here's the procedure. The Government of the Republic shall submit the application to the local government by 15 February at the latest and the Government shall be able to express its opinion on it until May. Then, when all these opinions are received, the government will make its decisions. Forced mergers will take place at the same time as voluntary mergers, which will be completed by the time of the local elections, by October 2017. It can be said that the voluntary merger phase has generally gone well. The Government of the Republic has already confirmed two accession decisions, which concern the realms of Saue and Tõrva. Accession negotiations are held in most of Estonia's municipalities. Some individuals do not participate in the accession negotiations, most likely waiting for the Supreme Court decision of 20 December, as some of them have contested the constitutionality of the Administrative Reform Act. The second part is either completing the accession negotiations or has already completed them, but they still do not meet the criteria after that. They are dealt with by the Government of the Republic according to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U8	Andres Herkel, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the acting Prime Minister. I am interested in the question of a seemingly secondary but, in substance, I think it is an inherent aspect, which very vividly shows the absurd side of administrative reform. You're referring to Saue parish. The name of Saue will now be borne by the great wretched land up to the Cross and on the other side to the land of Märjamaa, the entire former Nissi church parish will go down there. On the agenda, the name of Lyganus is Kiviõli, although the latter has emerged much later. I will mention new place names on the North Coast and on the West Coast, where there are no corresponding places, and the renaming of the villages of Saaremaa. How does the new government feel about this? In my opinion, this hits the tradition of Estonian indigenous names quite painfully.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U10	Thank you. In the cases you mentioned, as well as in general terms, local rulers have agreed on names during the accession negotiations on the basis of the mandate given to them. I have no competence to assess whether these names are adequate or not. Historically developed names certainly have a traditional symbolic value, but I think that the name does not generally violate the local government. It is certainly not worth taking names that might mislead you. In previous practice, such a concern was once when a municipality in Saaremaa wanted to have the name of Saaremaa municipality. I think it would have been a little misleading for the rest of the municipalities. But whether it can be agreed that the name of an existing municipality will be used more widely or that a new name will be introduced, and whether it is acceptable to everyone is, in my opinion, a matter of local autonomy. I would not say that this is the most burning or important issue of administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U12	The next question is for Finance Minister Sven Sester. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U13	Thank you. Good minister! In 2002, the hydroelectric power plant in Linnamäe was restored. This was done with the support of 345 people and a few dozen companies. This power plant was built in 1924 and the State put EUR 22 million in its restoration. It's produced a nice amount of energy, but now it's planning to break down an active hydropower plant. As a person in the role of the general meeting of Eesti Energia, have you made a decision to shut it down, and if you have done so, what will you say to these 345 people? Will you pay them back the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U14	Thank you, dear questioner. A true story was completed in 2002, which has become Estonia's largest hydropower plant today. To this end, Eesti Energia carried out the first cooperation project in Eastern Europe, offering renewable energy products to final consumers under the name green energy. As you rightly said, 345 individuals and 20 companies joined the campaign. The total revenue of the campaign was 77300 euros, of which 12,000 were donated to the Estonian Nature Foundation, who was a co-author of the project. The remaining EUR 65300 accounted for 3.4% of the total investment in the hydroelectric power plant in Linnamäe. Eesti Energia was also obliged to restore the hydropower plant. It's worked beautifully for 15 years. Looking back in time, it is clear that some changes have taken place since 2002. In 2004, the Minister of the Environment issued a regulation amending the Jägala River from the waterfall to the waterfall into a storage area in the Gulf of Finland. In 2005, the Government of the Republic adopted a decision to label it as a Natura site. Today we are in a position where we need to ensure access to fish, both upstream and downstream. The Minister for the Environment has also made a separate submission that we should carry out tasks related to the Natura site.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U15	Specific question, Artur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U16	Good minister! I had a very specific question. As the general meeting of Eesti Energia, have you taken the decision to shut down this efficient hydroelectric power plant, which provides energy to some 3,000 households, a historic object? As a reminder, after a mile, Jägala Falls will come up against it anyway, and this hydropower plant has been operating there for almost a hundred years. Once again, as your general meeting, have you decided to shut down the hydroelectric power plant of Eesti Energia, which is, as you said, the largest hydroelectric power plant in Estonia? What are the resulting decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U17	Thank you, dear questioner. Several parties have dealt with this issue: Environmental Board, Ministry of Environment, Minister of Finance, Ministry of Finance and Eesti Energia. True story, estimates have been made for today, what the volume of investments in Eesti Energia has been during this period and what profitability has been. All previous decisions that force the Government of the Republic and the Estonian state as a whole to protect Natura sites have been taken into account. It has now been agreed that the existing hydroelectric power plant will, let's say, proceed with the liquidation. There is specific information that a specific installation does not need to be dismantled in order to meet conservation objectives. Right now, I understand, the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Culture are working to make it possible to register as a cultural monument. According to my data, all parties wish to achieve two opposite objectives to the maximum: that fish can move downstream and upstream and that the historic facility can be maintained. Working for these 'controversial' wishes, I have understood, the Minister for the Environment is also clearly in the process; this task is on his desk. So today, action is being taken to fulfil the commitments made by the Estonian state in Natura sites. If this makes it necessary to shut down the hydroelectric power plant, but the plant can still be maintained, work will be done to this end.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U18	The last point to be specified. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I think that things do not come to the ministerial table easily, but there should also be clear political positions. What I am asking is this: which option do you consider to be of greater public interest, is it that tradition is maintained and investments made are not allowed to go to waste or against this other option? You must have a position. You're saying relatively vaguely that things come from somewhere on the table and somebody else decides.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U20	Thank you. I call on you, if possible, not to politicise all activities. We must comply with all legislation in Estonia and we must not take the view that we can define them further by means of politics. The Estonian state has a duty to ensure a wide range of activities in the Natura protected area. Moreover, we know that this particular area is one of the best mainly salmonid spawning areas in Estonia. Given the position that Estonia has assumed in relation to Natura sites, it would be very strange if we politically said no, we did not fulfil the obligations that we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U22	The next question is for Home Secretary Andres Anvelt. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! The Soots are known for trying to force society to impose things that the party's programme documents are silent about and which have not been spoken about in the elections. I am thinking, for example, of what is called hate speech. The Constitution guarantees freedom of conscience, thought, and also freedom of speech, which would be brutally violated by criminalising hate speech. All the more so since incitement to hatred is already prohibited and there is no specific need to ban hate speech. Such efforts are not driven by the need of society, but rather by the desire to muzzle opponents. Once we've been in a situation like this. Then there was a monopoly on truth, and all dissidents were punished, let alone dissidents. You have taken the lead in this matter, and you are now the Minister of the Interior. Do the socialists intend to move on to the subject again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U24	Thank you, good questioner, for the question. First of all, I would point out that the amendment, organisation and revision of the Penal Code, as well as its alignment with the European Union Framework Decisions, for example, are within the competence of the Ministry of Justice; the Ministry of the Interior does not come up with these initiatives. But now I promise myself a little rhetoric, because I have taken part in many social media debates myself, and I want to talk about what hate speech is all about. As Minister of Justice, I was confronted with the development of such a possible provision. This provision has not reached any point now, but its development may be called an inclusion project, as it has been discussed for four years at a number of round tables. But I'll just tell you a few sentences, think about them. When a public call is made for violence against a particular group of people or a member of a group, it is an hate speech. I think that no group in society deserves the public calling on them either to lynch, beat or kill them, then these people should not be protected by the state. This hate speech provision, which has been developed in the Ministry of Justice during various ministerial times, does not lead to the restriction of the freedom of expression that you fear, it does not simply restrict your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U25	Henn Põllaas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U26	I'm glad to hear the Home Office isn't coming up with this initiative. But we remember well the case of the unsolved Vao fire today, when the government, the President and the Soviets rushed to accuse the Estonian people of intolerance, racism and xenophobia. Wasn't that a hate speech? Supposedly, a refugee arrested in Haapsalu recently tied his wife to a radiator, poured over her with lighter fluid, and threatened to burn. Somehow the public weren't informed about it. Another refugee named Muhammad assaulted his colleague's security officer, injured him, and threatened to kill him. The court didn't punish him. I am now asking if this is an hate speech, if I speak openly about these things and say that Estonia has a double standard of attitude towards natives and immigrants, and because Muslim immigrants threaten our security, mass immigration must be stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U27	Thank you. I'll explain it again. If, for example, they are publicly called upon to beat, kill and use violence against, for example, the same Muhammad or anyone, perhaps Ivanove, or just, for example, the shorter-growth people, it is hate speech. If your opinion is published, whether it is a member of the EKRE, a socialist or a partyless, it is not hate speech. I suggest you unblock the Ministry of Justice's website, which contains all the minutes of these debates of their own time. Meet them, you will understand that there is a big difference between a hate speech that calls for other people's lives to be assaulted, and simply a speech or, as they say in Estonian, grinding, which has nothing to do with criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U28	Jaak Madison, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U29	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I understand your point, but I have two questions. First of all, do you think that our current penal code is inadequate? If, for example, a person x on social media invites either a national group or a person or anyone to destroy or incite hatred, then right now, if I remember correctly, § 153 of the Penal Code can still be applied. I may be wrong, but I think it was § 153. Even for this 'potential threat', one person has been found guilty because he had threatened the former Prime Minister, who had now resigned. So this law works. Don't you think that's enough? The second question, don't you think it's often the devil's details? There may always be a danger of going down the road in Germany, where it is already very dangerous to mention certain things, because it could be subject to hate speech law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U30	Time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U31	Thank you. I certainly agree that the way of overregulation must not go under any circumstances. I think that is why four years have been discussing whether this act should be criminalised or misdemeanored. The Ministry of Justice must continue to deal with this issue. However, I do think that in the existing Penal Code it would be necessary to supplement the catalogue of aggravating circumstances so that an aggravating circumstance would also be regarded as committing a criminal offence against someone because of some distinctive sign of that person or group of people. For example, several years ago there was a case when the youngsters killed, I don't want to say for fun, but there was no other motivation found for social outcasts. So they beat them and killed them. The actions of these young men could not be regarded as a hate crime. It is also the case when, for example, someone who is shorter in size or has a different skin color or whatever gets beaten on the street. If he is being assaulted by an old-fashioned hooliganic motive, this crime cannot be treated as a more serious crime and is being treated more leniently than if a person had been taken from his pocket as a result of his beating. This is something that needs more dialogue. Today's Minister of Justice has also said from this remote that this must be considered. But again, I stress that whether or not this wider discussion must continue is not included in the coalition agreement today. These decisions must be made by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U32	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U33	The next question is put by Remo Holsmer and the question is to Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U34	Thank you, good manager. Good Sven! Let's warm up the bill 302 for today's debate. The Government and you have tabled amendments to the Riigikogu, according to which at least three new taxes will be planned, I mean bank tax, sugar tax and car tax, compared to the law in force next year. Against this background, the government has declared economic recovery as one of its objectives. How do these tax increases and new taxes get the economy going?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U35	Thank you, dear questioner, good Remo! True, one of the top priorities of this government is economic growth. Economic growth is, I think, the foundation of all things. If there is good economic growth, we will be able to channel money into different areas, from roads to subsidies, defence capabilities and wages. When we look at what measures the government will take in the near future, I mean that there will be two years and a few months, we will see that very much attention will be paid to labour taxes. The same objective, to pay attention to labour taxes, has been before, but now we are doing it even more forcefully. This is compensated by possible taxes related to consumption and vice taxation or the environment. If you want to know more specifically what measures the government will take in the near future, I say that in the near future the government will take steps to increase the tax-free minimum. This is not done by EUR 10, EUR 15 or EUR 20, as has been the case before, but by a strong step, increasing the tax-free minimum to EUR 500 per month for people on lower and medium wages. This creates a situation where people who are paid EUR 500-1200 per month will in the future receive EUR 62 per month more, or just over EUR 700 per year. This is a real relief and will also contribute to employment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U36	Remo Holsmer, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U37	Thank you! You said in your reply that attention would be paid to labour taxes. Yes, labour taxes will be increased next year. In the past, there was a statutory social tax reduction of 1% in two years, and now the government is proposing an increase in this tax. But you didn't answer my question. How will the introduction of all these taxes and tax changes contribute to economic growth? Three new taxes will be introduced, social taxes will be increased, progressive income taxes will be introduced and gas excise duties will be increased. The increase in gas excise duty has a strong impact on both private consumers and companies' ability to invest. How will these steps contribute to economic growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U38	Thank you, dear questioner. I would like you to look at the whole picture and look at both the benefits and the costs. I think it was unfair of you to say that the abolition of the reduction in social taxes from 1 January will result in no reduction in labour taxes. If you look at the financial expression of the reduction in social tax and look at the overall cost to the state budget of the tax reform measure, you will see that this is almost a one-and-a-half difference. Surely you cannot say that the reduction in labour taxes is not a priority for this government. Rather, ambition is much higher than in the past. If you look at what the government is about to do in the near future, take a look at the cessation of the increase in diesel excise duty in 2018. This is an important input for our Estonian companies. Or, for example, look at the abolition of the increase in VAT on hotels, which, just as the reduction in social tax has not yet entered into force, should have entered into force on 1 January 2017. So the increase to 14% is canceled, the tax stays at 9%, contributing to our export capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U39	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U40	Thank you. You didn't do well to answer Remo Holsmer's question, but you didn't answer the question. But here before, I thought generously about this beautiful old time, when Minister of Finance Sester praised the fall in social tax and urged the whole of Europe to follow the example of Estonia. But I'm not gonna ask you today what happened to that finance minister Sester. Instead, I am asking about the abolition of the most important part of the joint declarations, which concerns very many Estonian families. Indeed, as you know, two family members can no longer add up the income tax-free minimum. If, for example, one family member receives 1500 euros or more and the other does not earn any income, these families will lose very much during your tax reform. How do you justify such a harmful move for families?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U41	Thank you, dear questioner. I'll start with your introduction to social tax reductions. You see, in the meantime, the government has changed, and political priorities have changed with it. During the elections, a year and a half ago, no one other than the Reform Party spoke of a reduction in social tax. All other political parties had other measures to reduce labour taxes, and the reduction of social tax was only an election promise from the Reform Party. The opportunities offered by the current government in the context of reducing labour taxes are much more ambitious. That was the answer to the introduction to your question. As far as the tax-free minimum is concerned, look at what decisions the government is taking at the moment. If it is currently possible to take EUR 170 per person into account and the two spouses together have EUR 2 x 170, the next year will have a tax-free minimum of EUR 180, the spouses together EUR 2 x 180, the new tax reform will result in a one-person income-free minimum of EUR 500 if they receive a low or average salary. I think this is a much greater emphasis than the current 170 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U42	For clarification of the honourable members of the Riigikogu who, as questioners, have participated less often: if, as manager, I give the opportunity to ask a more specific question, I think so, and I give the opportunity to ask one question and no more. So I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U43	The next question is for Home Secretary Andres Anvelt. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This is about Muraste Police and Border Guard School. For some time, the closing of the School of Police and Border Guard College Paikus was on the agenda of the Estonian Academy of Defence. It has now been decided that Paikuse School will not be closed, but will be developed into a police study centre. An investment of EUR 2 to 3 million has been planned. Tallinna Kase street study centre will also remain. The teaching is thus divided between Tallinn and Paikus. The Muraste study centre providing border education is closed, although it is a learning complex at international level. Where do investments come from? What is the purpose of such action? What was the need for Muraste to close school?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U45	Thank you, good questioner! The decision to close Muraste School was taken already in August 2015. But as a new minister, I took up this issue to explain the reasons behind it. These hindsights are, in my opinion, entirely adequate. Education at the Academy of Internal Defence, as we know, is already expensive because learners need a completely different learning base than is needed in many other universities of applied sciences and sciences. They also need polygons, if I may call them that. One of the reasons for the closure of the school was also the 30% savings in management costs, but this certainly cannot be at the expense of the quality of education. These local investments, which you have spoken about, provide an opportunity to extend important training activities to both police and border guards there. For example, the tactical shooting range will be significantly increased and made safe, the alarm training polygon will certainly be increased and extended and more study rooms will be built. I would not particularly like to point out the very large differences between basic training for police and border guards, because in fact they both do law enforcement, some do them internally, others rather at the border, but basic knowledge is very similar. So the closure of Muraste School provides an opportunity to invest more in other existing schools so that students have better training.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U46	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, A brief question: what about Muraste School or Training Centre? Is it privatized?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U48	Thank you. I will say one more thing to add to the previous question, then I will come to your follow-up question. It is impossible to extend the lawn school for a certain reason. The reason is that this school is located in the Natura 2000 site. For example, there is a need to expand access routes. I go running in the neighborhood very often, and I know that when two cars come to meet each other there, one has to stand and let the other pass, because it has not been possible to build a wider road to the nature reserve. What about Muraste School? This school will be handed over to Riigi Kinnisvara AS on 1 January. On a temporary basis, until new premises are found and opportunities open, the dog training centre will continue there. Then Riigi Kinnisvara AS can make its decision. I will tell you in advance that, in the coming days, even on 21 December, the Ministry of the Interior, together with the Defence League, will discuss the possible use of Muraste buildings. In fact, several public authorities have expressed the opinion that since our defence needs, as well as the needs to protect the population, require better coordination between public authorities, there could be a training centre. There will certainly be a question of money here, but we will discuss this idea and wonder if it would be useful to create such a thing in the future. But briefly, after 1 January next year, Riigi Kinnisvara AS will take over the administration of this school.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U49	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. In fact, this whole border crossing with the police was launched by Comrade Jüri Pihl, your party partner. The property and equipment of the Muraste Border Guard School has been disbanded by your predecessor, Mr. Pevkur. Now the queue is in the hands of the school of border guards, which is in Muraste and is well-built. Where are you gonna plant the dogs and what's it gonna cost? For information and widen my horizons, I will tell you so much that Estonia is the only "leading state" that has an external border with Russia and has managed to bring these two organisations together with a completely different ideology.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U51	Thank you. I start with the fact that there can be no different ideologies in Estonian national defence. We must have one ideology to protect the Estonian state. That's point 1. Point 2. I have been the guardian of this idea, and I will remain the guardian of it, that joining the police and the border guard was a very successful step. The reason for this unification was not to break something, but to create added value. Let's see how the police, with their rapid reaction forces, can now respond to border incidents, how protection of the state border takes place together in the border zone, but, if necessary, also in areas close to the border, and there is also the right to operate more widely, because we know that all children of conflict can start not only at the border, but also in their own country, ten, twenty or thirty kilometres away from the border. This is where we need very serious cooperation, and it is based on the consolidation of police and border guards. Having also been the director of the Police College and worked for years at the Academy of Internal Defence, I dare say that the curricula of police and border guards have been moving towards each other for years. It has created quite good synergies so that people can move between these two organisations. You asked me, let's say, about the inner defense of the nice helpers, the dogs. Dog training continues at the Police and Border Guard Board, moving to prefectures, which are more involved in one task or another and are closer to the same border area, for example. This will actually improve the training and operational use of dogs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U52	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U53	Next is the question of Jaak Madison to the Minister for Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U54	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! A few weeks ago, you expressed your opinion in the public media that your policy is aimed at banning all forms of alcohol advertising, as well as banning "special offers" or tastes of happy hours and alcohol-containing drinks. A brief and specific question: why do you want to turn Estonia into a society of prohibitions and orders, where everything is regulated and people have no chance of living the way they live in a free society? Instead, they must rather live in a left-wing regime, where the state has banned everything and penalises it strictly if the prohibitions are violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U55	Thank you, Honourable Asker. It's always a pleasure to hear your questions. It is heartwarming to see how the Conservative People's Party can move from such extreme conservatism to extremeliberality and backwards. But that is, of course, your right and your freedom, it is my duty to answer the question you have asked. When we are talking about alcohol policy, it must be said that this has indeed been a priority for the Ministry of Social Affairs. We have drawn up proposals to tighten up alcohol policy due to international recommendations and scientific results, as well as the Green Paper on alcohol policy agreed in Estonia. The aim is one: to reduce the total consumption of alcohol in Estonia. We consider minors, as well as over-consumers, as distinctly important target groups. Now we're gonna get to the bottom of this. International studies and practices in other countries say that communication and education in the field of alcohol policy are very good, and this is also worth doing, but without further regulatory measures, there will be no results in alcohol policy without regulatory restrictions. The most effective measures to reduce alcohol consumption are increases in the price of alcohol and restrictions on advertising and restrictions on access to alcohol. All three of them we also apply to reduce the overall consumption of alcohol in Estonian society. In the last 12 seconds, there's still a record of freedom. Freedom is important. With these proposals, we will not restrict the free choice of people. It should be borne in mind, however, that according to conservative estimates, there are about 60,000 alcohol addicts in Estonia and it is not quite right to talk about their freedom to drink alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U56	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U57	Dear Chairman, Dear Minister, Some time ago, in the previous government, you made a statement that you are not satisfied with the fact that Estonian companies sell cheap alcohol to Estonians near the border in Latvia. You also made an appeal to your right-hand minister, Sester, to take action. You did not like that Estonian companies, which are Estonian taxable persons, have established sales points along the border where Estonian alcohol is sold to Estonian consumers via a company registered in Estonia, but is held on the territory of Latvia. What has happened to this appeal and has the minister sitting on your right taken the measures you requested?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U58	Thank you very much, Honourable Asker. First of all, my statement and letter were simple. Naturally, businesses are free to look for the best way to organise their activities, taking advantage, for example, of unreasonable excise differences along the border. This has been done in the past and will probably be done in the future. I do not blame entrepreneurs for this; they act in their best interests. These interests may not overlap with those of public health in the present case, and they certainly do not overlap with those of excise policy. Businesses cannot be blamed for this either. However, what can be blamed for or, rather, what I resented then is that the same companies that make profits with such a business model, attracting Estonian consumers to Latvia, while at the same time accusing the Estonian government of tightening our alcohol policy in the name of public health objectives. We do this because public health needs to be protected, it is important. It is, of course, clear that some businesses will benefit from this, making use of these opportunities to increase border trade. But I do not think it is right for me to condemn them for taking advantage of these opportunities, and it is not right for them to condemn the Government's desire to reduce alcohol consumption in Estonia by taking stronger measures to do so. Speaking of this letter and the address, here are two questions. Firstly, the tax authorities must begin to check the quantities of alcohol carried over. We know that there are a number of cars that carry hundreds of litres of alcohol across the border every day. This is certainly not for personal use, and here the tax administration needs to take action. That's all I can answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U59	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U60	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, I, too, always have the pleasure of asking questions to you social democrats. If you want to talk about ideologies, you are welcome by our group. We can talk for several hours about what conservatism and liberalism mean. We may really be extreme preserves, in your opinion, if we defend Estonia's national statehood, but at the same time Conservatives have always respected fundamental freedoms and human freedom to choose their own future, make their own decisions and take responsibility for them. But I'll come back to the booze. Last week, a very worrying letter came from the Estonian Merchants Association, which represents the merchants of South Estonia. Priit Aule, one of the representatives of the Traders' Association, has made one suggestion last year. I quote this letter: 'For a year, the members of the Traders' Association proposed to Minister Ossinovski that we work together to create, with the help of the best independent international experts, a programme to promote public health in a comprehensive manner, based on the best practices in the world and also on failures. However, in response to Mr Ossinovski's response at the time, Minister Ossinovski stated that he had no interest in such cooperation programmes. " Why do you rule out cooperation between the various parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U61	Thank you. I certainly don't have any interest in cooperation, I'm a very cooperative person. It is a question of what purpose it is to cooperate and organise round tables, either to achieve better results or to discuss for a few years proposals and ideas around round, square and other tables, the effectiveness of which has already been scientifically confirmed. This is exactly what alcohol policy is all about. The Green Paper on Alcohol Policy started to be drawn up in the last decade. It was completed in 2012 with a very large and thorough circle of involvement, involving producers, merchants, scientists and a number of interest groups. In 2014, the Government of the Republic approved the Green Paper on Alcohol Policy. The year now ends in 2016, but we still have not taken these decisions. I believe that the new government will be in front of the Riigikogu soon. Thus, as has been said, the measures we have proposed are evidence-based, science-based, based on the world's best knowledge in this field, such as the WHO Global Alcohol Strategy, several studies and recommendations from the European Union and a number of other formats of documents, which have been produced in Estonia by the Ministry of Social Affairs and representatives of the Republic of Estonia. We have no doubt that they are properly drafted and well-founded evidence-based measures and must be taken. I admit that not all the people of Estonia are happy about them. They are not greatly welcomed by merchants or alcohol producers. We have also heard about the reluctance of the circuit to make these changes with other commercial interests related to alcohol. I understand them, but public health objectives are more important in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U62	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U63	The next questioner is Aivar Sõerd and the next answer is Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U64	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, you have caused quite a mess in the economic environment with your fickle tax policy. In December alone, you have submitted numerous tax changes to the Riigikogu, then you have withdrawn them, then you have re-submitted them and you have withdrawn them again. Your entire tax plan is confusing and full of contradictions and its impact on the economic environment is unpredictable. How will Estonia's overall tax burden of 2017 and 2018 be affected by the tax changes granted and withdrawn in December alone? Are they reducing or increasing it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U65	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have put together a number of things now. I began to wonder what a fickle policy was. It seems that this is your assessment, which of course you can make. If we look at what the Government of the Republic has presented to Parliament in the last two and a half weeks, we will see that in the coming years, not only in 2017, because the tax reform will have an even greater impact on future years, the burden of labour taxes will clearly decrease. If you are asking what changes are coming or what has come over the last week, then the truth is that the registration fee for cars has been withdrawn by the government. We want to work more on this, and I think it is also part of the new policy. We should not be ashamed if we want to make the draft even better, given the proposals that have come. If you ask what the impact of this withdrawn proposal will be, I will say that it will have an impact of EUR 8 million in 2017 and will be covered by additional dividend payments. Perhaps if you look at your questioning, you could even say that the overall tax burden will be further reduced next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U66	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U67	Thank you. I will continue here with an additional question. The tax burden cannot be reduced if you increase costs by EUR 60 million and raise taxes to cover them. In any case, the tax burden will increase. But I will continue on the Estonian Energia dividend. You withdrew the proposal for a car tax and therefore proposed to the Committee on Monetary Affairs that an additional 9.1 million euros of the dividend be taken from Eesti Energia to cover the missing amount. I read from the budget of the Ministry of Finance for next year that the share capital of Eesti Energia is planned to increase by 20 million euros. Please explain what's going on! The increase in share capital is not a cost that changes the balance of the budget, but the cost of the dividend affects the balance of the budget. Tell me what's going on! As far as I know, Eesti Energia does not need this share capital.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U68	Time's up. Thank you, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U69	Thank you. First of all, this data is a little off. Eesti Energia currently has a previous position of 39.4 million euros for next year and it will increase by 7.6 million, not 9.1 million. I'm sure you have more details. If you look at the position of Eesti Energia in the past six months, you will notice that electricity sales prices have improved considerably, not only on Eesti Energia, but on all companies on the market, including Eesti Energia, who is a very big player. It is natural that if a company managed by the owner is also able to pay a dividend, it is certainly one of the objectives of the owner's policy. As regards the possible increase in dividends and share capital, they are not linked. As you will note, just as now, so there have been times before, when, due to the capacity of equity capital, further increases in share capital have been needed, dividend payments have also been made. Eesti Energia will make significant investments in the coming years, and one major investment will be the production of wind farms with even greater equity capacity. However, we will be talking about this in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U70	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U71	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Finance! I started language training in the public sector as Minister of Education. I very much hope that you will be involved in this and that you will no longer hear sentences such as that one of the government's greatest priorities is economic growth. But there are also problems with economic training. Eesti Pank has just said that your economic policy is holding back economic growth, growth potential, export capacity and structural changes towards higher productivity. How does that relate to one of your top priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U72	Thank you, good questioner! Economic growth offers many opportunities to stimulate. Today, we have mainly talked about tax policy measures, and in an hour or a half we will continue to hold a decent multi-hour debate here. In addition to fiscal policy changes, there is also a fiscal stimulus. The economy not only in Estonia, but throughout Europe is growing at the level that has been expected. The European Commission has also signalled to all European countries that fiscal policies must stimulate growth. If you look at the priority of this government coalition, you will see that in the next three years there is a strong commitment to channel additional resources into both infrastructure investments and other investments, which will benefit Estonian society to a lesser or greater extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U73	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U74	One question comes from the Minister for Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties, to ask Monika Haukamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Estonia is an e-state and we have rightly been proud of it. The Estonian E-Health Foundation is certainly one flagship throughout the years, which has made a very strong contribution to the eHealth of Estonian health care. Of course, information is power and who has the most, it can make the right decisions. In recent years, it seems to me, however, that the development of our e-health has dramatically slowed down and we have not moved forward from the stage of digitalisation and integration to the stage of personal medicine. Now news came that from January 1st, the Ministry will launch a health and well-being information systems centre. Why is this being done? What do you expect to gain from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U76	Thank you very much. First of all, of course, eHealth is a priority issue for the entire Estonian state as well as for the health care system. I agree that the development of recent years has not been satisfactory either in terms of pace or implementation of the agreed developments. That, I think, is the main reason why we have decided to reorganise, close and instead set up a new IT institution as a state-managed institution, which has already been put in place as a new and capable leader, with the aim of consolidating IT developments and solutions under the Ministry of Social Affairs with a view to making this area better planned and thought-out and development easier to implement. We have quite a lot of projects and developments planned and carried out. I think the Ministry of Social Affairs will be happy to introduce them to the Riigikogu, too, if interest is shown.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U77	We thank the members of the Government of the Republic! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U78	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Wednesday session of the 11th working week of the 4th plenary session. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Rainer Vakra has. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to hand over the draft initiated by the Committee on the Environment, entitled 'Revocation of the members of the Board of Directors of the Environmental Investment Centre and the appointment of new members'. According to § 56 (1) of the Environmental Fees Act, four of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre are appointed by a decision of the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Environment Committee. Members of the Riigikogu Aivar Kokk and Kalvi Tõvi have expressed their wish to resign as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre. The mandate of Mati Raidma's member of the Supervisory Board expired on 23 November 2016 due to the end of the term of office of his member of the Riigikogu. The Committee on the Environment asked the political groups of the Riigikogu to present their candidates to the seats of the members of the Council. Three candidates were nominated: from the Group of Kalle Muuli Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Rainer Vakra from the Group of the Social Democratic Party and Meelis Mälberg from the Group of the Reform Party. At its meeting on 13 December 2016, the Commission decided by consensus that the Assembly of the Riigikogu is invited to recall Aivar Kokk, Kalvi Tõvi and Mati Raidma from the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and to appoint the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Muuli, Meelis Mälberg and Rainer Vakra as members of the Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U80	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U81	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft proposed by the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, which I will present to you, will, in substance, continue some of the topics that have become familiar with the previous draft. Namely, we present a draft decision of the Riigikogu on the nomination of the members of the council of the National Library of Estonia. The point is that Mark Soosaare also dropped out of the National Library Council as a result of leaving the Riigikogu. Aadu Must, a former member, has also expressed his wish to withdraw from this Council. The Committee on Culture discussed this draft and reached a consensus on the proposal to appoint Toomas Väinaste, a member of the National Library, and Mark Soosaare, a member of the Riigikogu, instead of Mr Barbi Pilvre-Storgård, instead of Mr Aadu Black. It deserves unanimous support. Since, according to the Estonian National Library Act, the presentation of new members of the Council, members of the Riigikogu, is the responsibility of the Cultural Commission, this decision will be dealt with in a single reading. No amendments shall be submitted and the draft shall be adopted as a decision at one reading or rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U82	I have adopted two drafts with which the Board of the Riigikogu behaves in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Home and Working Procedures Act. There's a message. Attention, this is an important message! In particular, the 10th item on today's agenda, the second reading of Bill 302, is accompanied by a presentation from the initiator of the draft by the Minister for Finance, in addition to the presentation by the commission. So there are two rapporteurs in the debate on this draft. Incoming check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session, 12 members are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U83	Let's start working on the Wednesday agenda items. First of all, the draft law amending the Aliens Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic is the third reading. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Jaak Madison, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U84	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, At the third reading of the draft law, the Conservative People's Party Group will vote against it. I think it is absolutely necessary to state what are the main reasons for this. We cannot accept the relaxation of the current regulation, which seeks to attract more workers, whether it is for the creation of start-ups. As we know, the concept of start-ups is very broad. There are very many examples of how people have been able to obtain a residence or work permit in the shelter of setting up a start-up company, but their real purpose has not been to contribute to the Estonian economy or to increase our prosperity. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, I will mention two points that we cannot agree with under any circumstances. The first point: 'The aim of the draft amendments is to facilitate and facilitate the temporary stay and residence of foreigners who are prepared and able to contribute to the development of Estonia. The wider objective of the proposal is to help achieve national targets in a constantly changing environment, taking into account global and regional processes. ' Because of the low rate of growth and demographic crisis, it is true that as time goes on, the more labour shortages are getting worse, but in Estonia, where 1.3 million people live, barely 900,000 of them Estonians, we cannot begin to tackle labour market problems with foreign labour. Another point we cannot agree with: 'Like other EU Member States, Estonia faces economic and demographic challenges and competes with other economies to attract people with the skills and knowledge needed for the labour market and the business environment. In the last five years, the workforce in Estonia has decreased by 7,000 people, and according to Eurostat forecasts, more than 100,000 people of working age will live less in Estonia after 20 years. ' That is another point where we cannot accept the proposed solution. The solution cannot be to relax the existing regulation, but the solution must be one that motivates the people who have already left it to come back, namely around 100,000 and helps to resolve the demographic crisis, or population crisis. These must be the priorities that we must pursue so that we are no longer in this situation in 20 years' time. Thus, if only 55% of the inhabitants of the Estonian capital are Estonians and if there are fewer than one million Estonians in the whole country, the solution cannot be to copy the model from Western Europe, where the last 40 years have been attempted to solve demographic and labour problems by means of external migration. Conservatives will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U85	Liisa Oviir, Speech by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U86	The 251 bill makes changes that the Estonian business environment has long been looking forward to. The draft facilitates the introduction of foreigners who contribute to Estonian society and development and can provide a very significant added value to our economy. Although there is much to be commended in this draft, I would like to focus on three changes with a very clear output for our economy. All changes to the bill are linked to supporting productivity growth and innovation, which helps to promote Estonia's competitiveness. Both global and regional processes have been taken into account, in particular internationalisation, as well as the decline in the working population. According to Eurostat forecasts, the working-age population of Estonia will fall by 100000 in the next 20 years. That must be taken into account. It must also be taken into account that Estonia is in competition with other countries in the region, all of whom are trying to attract the best hands. In order to ensure the competitiveness and sustainability of the Estonian economy, it is therefore important to encourage the immigration of talent and entrepreneurs required for the development of the country. The draft therefore creates exceptions for those categories that give a rapid boost to Estonia's competitiveness. These are ICT specialists. ICT is certainly an area of high added value, but ICTs have increasingly been introduced in other sectors of the economy, such as industry, and this creates the need for a suitably qualified workforce. In addition, in recent years Estonia has dealt with attracting ICT companies and their development centres to Estonia, but unfortunately we are no longer able to provide them with enough and suitable quality labour. This change will lead to a significant improvement. In addition to our knowledge of ICT, we are also pioneers in start-ups. For a start-up, contrary to what the previous speaker said, the explanatory memorandum to the draft defines a start-up as an economic entity with a high global growth potential, which aims to develop and start up an innovative and reproducible business model and which contributes significantly to the development of the Estonian economy and the business environment. Estonia has been a good breeding ground for start-ups. Namely, Estonia has the largest number of start-ups per capita throughout the European Union, and on a global scale we are the second largest after Israel. However, international competition has also become increasingly intense here. Start-ups create jobs with high added value, they bring foreign capital to Estonia and they also contribute to the state budget through tax receipts. Apart from boosting growth and creating jobs, creating a favourable environment for start-ups will contribute to the development of our entire technology sector. Lastly, in order to increase the production of foreign investment in Estonia, the draft creates opportunities for granting a permit in a simplified way to large investors. In our competitiveness plan 'Estonia 2020', one of the priorities of the Estonian state is that a better environment must be created to bring foreign investment into Estonia. Under this scheme, in order to attract foreign investment here, it is necessary to offer investors attractive benefits that are competitive in international comparison. The granting of a simplified residence permit also supports the objectives that we set, creating a support measure for a large investor to attract investments into Estonia. This decision has already been signed and the measure will open at EAS on 9 January in a new year starting. The active involvement of large investors in the Estonian economy contributes to increasing the productivity and export potential of companies, increasing the added value of products, opening up new market opportunities and creating jobs that create high added value. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U87	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U88	The Estonian business environment will also become more attractive to foreigners, which in turn will diversify and strengthen Estonia's competitive position. Thus, the general and main objective of this draft is to improve our business environment by bringing to Estonia precisely the working hands that our economy feels most in need of. To sum it up. This is a very necessary draft for our economic recovery, but, as has been pointed out at the recent Business Day Industrial Conference, these changes are extremely necessary, but they do not solve the shortage of hands in industry. I therefore call on the Government of the Republic to make changes in the next phase that could solve the problem of lack of working hands in the industrial sector as well. Industry is one of the engines of the Estonian economy. The Green Paper on industrial policy, which has just been drawn up, provides a very good analytical basis for these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U89	Hanno Pevkur, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U90	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very good draft, and it is certainly worth supporting. But this bill could have been made even better. In order to improve this draft, the Confederation of Employers, the Chamber of Commerce and other business organisations have stated that it could have gone further. I'm sure it would. For example, the wage criterion. If it was now agreed at 1.0 as a wage criterion, then there was also discussion of a sector-specific criterion, but this is already an issue in the next draft. However, I take this opportunity to deal with these things together, as being foreigners here is crucial to the open economy of Estonia. I think it's appropriate to remember where this bill started. Perhaps many of the people in the Riigikogu do not know this, but this bill started with a round table held at the Prime Minister's. It was where start-ups gathered and talked about their problems. I am very pleased that the Ministry of the Interior acted very quickly at the time, and we were able to prepare this draft very quickly. There are a lot of provisions in this draft, apart from those mentioned by Liisa, which reduce bureaucracy for the foreigners who are here, be they the people who want to work in Estonia, or people who have a six-month deadline to stay and who can apply to extend their stay here, etc. These proposals are crucial for Estonia's open economy to grow. We can already see this year that Estonia's immigration limit will be full before the end of the year, which is not good for the open economy of Estonia. We need to send a crucial message that both start-ups and ICT-related companies are excluded from the limit. It is very important that large investors can come to Estonia and invest here. This is a draft which contributes to the development of the labour market and does not raise labour taxes. Let us deal more with matters of substance, not with raising labour taxes, it is also possible to talk about the fact that the Estonian labour market and the economy are open and that we are able to grow our economy significantly with it, which will, of course, help to improve the well-being of Estonians. My recommendation to everyone in this Chamber is to support this bill, but not to stick to it. I believe that not only members of the Reform Party but also others in this Chamber are thinking about how to make the Estonian labour market even more flexible and better, so that there is no shortage of working hands that employers are already talking about so much. I recommend supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U91	On behalf of the Group of the Mart Nutt Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U92	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! These risks in relation to this draft, which the respected representative of the EKRE spoke of, maybe he was also referring to the next draft law, are not real. This bill does not pose such risks. This is very balanced and, from an economic and social point of view, a very necessary draft for Estonia. On the other hand, demographers have calculated how much we need migrant workers in a situation where our economy is continuing its current extensive development path, the need being around 7 000 migrant workers per year. Let's do a little calculation. If it goes on like this, it will not be long before people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue are outnumbered in Estonia. This means that undoubtedly the introduction of migrant workers is not a solution to the problems of the Estonian economy in the term. We need to find another way. But the fact that we're bringing in the specialists we need is definitely necessary. That is the result of my call: the IRL will vote in favour of this draft and we call on others to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U93	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, Bill 251 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption. That's why we're doing the presence check, please. 95 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Aliens Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 251. Please take a stand and vote. There were 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 251 as a law and 7 against no one abstained. The law amending the law and other laws of foreigners has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U94	The next item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law 252 on the amendment of the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I'm opening negotiations. Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U95	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft concerns the introduction of seasonal workers into Estonia and their stay here, i.e. their opportunities to live and work in Estonia will be extended. There is, in fact, no substantive justification for this. When we look at the draft, it is clear that it is not just seasonal workers' issues. Seasonal work as such is a short-term temporary work which lasts for a maximum of a few months. This draft extends the validity of the so-called seasonal worker visa and allows them to work for 18 consecutive months for two years. It's not a seasonal job anymore. Seasonal work is a work that students do in chess: field work, gardening, tourism season, or summer work, etc. While facilitating the arrival of so-called seasonal workers from abroad in Estonia, we ourselves have thousands of students and young people who would like to work hard and earn money during the summer. Student placements will be filled in instantly as soon as registration is open. We have tens of thousands of young people who don't have a job in the summer. At the same time, any insane standards and rules prevent our young people from working at all. They can't and can't pick up an axe or a saw, though...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U96	I'm sorry, Henn Põllamaas! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Honourable members of the Riigikogu, let a colleague speak, let us listen to him! Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U97	...our young people aren't grunts, they're good at work. All children living in private homes, summer homes or the countryside do so, but it is actually forbidden for them and so-called seasonal workers are introduced on a massive scale. Rather, let us simplify these rules and give our own young people the opportunity to work. This would also be important in terms of work education and work habits. This would also allow young people to earn money, which would be an important addition for a large number of families, because we have almost 50% of people living in poverty. In addition, the draft establishes a legal immigration pump that allows for the acquisition of visas and residence permits in third countries. It is sufficient to establish a subsidiary in Estonia, then it is almost unlimited to bring employees within the company to Estonia without even checking whether the parent company is financially viable or has already gone bankrupt. In essence, it can be seen as a new immigration pump and as a business opportunity for residence permits. All these people have the opportunity to extend their visa and apply for it here in Estonia, which no longer needs to be done in the country of departure. The right to bring a family is completely incomprehensible. All family members are also granted the right to work here, even as a self-employed person. This is not about seasonal work, but rather evidence of another immigration pump and the facilitation of immigration. 8 000 people came to Estonia last year, 5 000 of them came from third countries: Russia, Ukraine, Belarus. In ten years, it'll be 80,000 people. Indeed, the Estonian people will soon be in a minority. The law transposes several Euro Directives, as well as... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U98	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U99	... their provisions, which once again show that the Riigikogu, as legislator, is marginalising and our national decision-making powers are being reduced. At times, this question arises as to whether Estonia is more of a sovereign state. In view of all the above, the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to reject this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U100	A purely procedural remark: we are now dealing with a final vote on the proposal of the commission. There's nothing left to push back. Ivari Padar, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U101	Ladies and gentlemen, I do disagree with the colleague who spoke here earlier. I think this is a very important and necessary draft that we are about to vote on. Agriculture is undoubtedly an area, for example, of gardening, very high export potential and many opportunities, the biggest problem of which has been the availability of labour in recent years. The workforce has been available, but it has been picked up along curves, through other countries. In any case, it is very right that today we are very clear about the conditions under which we can bring seasonal workers to Estonia. The right thing is also the need to involve young people more closely in seasonal work. It's clear you have to look at both sides here. In order to exploit this potential, even in gardening, there is not enough young people alone. That's clear. As preliminary information, it is very good to say that Evgeni Ossinovski and his office are preparing changes to ease the recruitment of young people, which is very reasonable. Therefore, in order to make the most of the potential of such an important sector as the gardening sector in Estonia, both sides have to be seen indisputably. One thing is bringing seasonal workers to Estonia, and the other is the application of young people to work. I very much support this bill and urge everyone to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U102	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I, too, believe that this is a very good bill. A little more than a year ago, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia convened a working group on economic development, consisting of independent experts of all kinds of political ideologies, who received only one task: to find the bottlenecks that could be speeded up to the Estonian economy in the event of a wider grinding. Those people whose competence, I think, have no reason to doubt, did a very important job for a year and reached a consensual conclusion that the biggest problem in the Estonian economy is labour shortages. I believe that we have all been able to see for ourselves how unemployment rates have fallen very sharply in recent years. Very many people in Estonia who have been looking for a job have managed to find a job. It is now necessary to find people who would be willing to work more so that more production and GDP are created in Estonian companies. There are, of course, many ways to do this. I also agree in principle with what henn Põlluaas said about giving more job opportunities to young people in Estonia. Yeah, that's one way too. But the bill certainly doesn't take away that opportunity. There is also a huge opportunity for a reform of working capacity which has already started and which brings many people into employment who have so far been absent from employment, either because of special needs or because of a health problem. This, too, is certainly a big step forward. It is also, in principle, important that the unemployment fund also pays for the training of people who belong to the so-called risk group who have not fallen out of employment but who are at risk of leaving it. That, too, is the right direction. But in my opinion, it is also very right that hiring talent from abroad is made more affordable for Estonian companies and that regulations are simplified in such a way that it is possible to hire people from outside Estonia and the European Union in Estonian companies, whether they are agricultural enterprises named Ivari Padari, enterprises providing seasonal tourism services or other companies such as start-ups. I think this is a very good bill. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, please support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U104	On behalf of the Group of the Ken-Marti Vaher Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U105	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This bill could certainly have been worse, but I think the optimal solution came out in today's situation. In particular, I am thinking of the conditions and principles laid down in this law concerning the temporary residence permit granted for employment. There is also a fundamental change in this draft compared to today. At present, in order for an alien to obtain a residence permit to work, the employer needs to pay him a fee equal to at least the product of the average gross wage in Estonia and the coefficient 1.24, i.e. a premium higher than the average wage in Estonia. This draft has, in my opinion, found a very reasonable compromise: the compulsory rate of pay has been reduced to the average wage in Estonia. This is the optimal solution, I think, for quite a few sectors. Alternatively, on the table, if you remember, there was an opportunity to introduce an average sectoral salary, which some Riigikogu committees considered to be right in their discussions. I think that would certainly have been a worse option. In sectors where we would like to get more people and give them a residence permit to work, the average wage is much higher than the Estonian average. We would therefore not have been able to involve skilled and highly paid workers there. On the other hand, this option might have opened the door that the IRL Group certainly does not want to open, so in those sectors where the average wage is much lower than the Estonian average, the conditions would have been lower than the bar and would have created another unequal situation and the unequal treatment of Estonian resident workers. This optimal solution, which is contained in point 52 of the draft, is, in my opinion, a quite good compromise. Disputes were heated, but in general, this bill with its principles certainly protects the general concepts and principles of conservative migration policy and, on the other hand, opens up opportunities for Estonian employers to recruit more highly paid workers and skilled workers. The IRL Group supports the adoption of the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U106	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the draft law 252 on the amendment of the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws related thereto. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the bill 252 as a law and 7 against, no one abstained. The law amending the law on foreigners and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U107	The third reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins now. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. On the proposal of the Governing Commission, we will go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 321. Please vote! There were 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 321 as a law and 3 against, with no abstentions. The law amending the Law of Obligations Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U108	The third reading of Bill 297 of the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I hope we can go to the final vote. I am voting on draft Law 297 on Investment Funds, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of adopting bill 297 as a law, and there are no opponents or abstentions. The Investment Funds Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U109	Third reading of Bill 301 of Amendment to the Health Insurance Act and Social Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U110	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U111	Excuse me, Monika Haukanõmm! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U112	We have before us a bill setting out the dental benefit. Undoubtedly, the introduction of dental benefits is a noble step, as the dental situation of Estonians is more than bad. Sadly, today, it often depends on whether a person can take care of his teeth as he or she would like to, depending on his or her financial situation. We certainly welcome the solution proposed in this draft for elderly people and those with increased medical needs. However, criticism must be given about the solution offered to people of working age. Why? The Government of the Republic offers that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will support a person's dental care with a maximum annual amount of 30 euros if the bill is at least 60 euros. Unfortunately, there is a very high risk that if draft 301 is passed as a law in the form that it is now before us, people will not be able to use dental care benefits, but we will make an unprotected promise to people, not a hundred percent, but very much unprotected. I'm trying to explain this. Until the first reading, we had the feeling that this was an excellent initiative. After making the amendments, we also received the views of the Estonian Association of Dentists, which were negative for this draft. In particular, dental benefits are planned in kind. This means that the person receives treatment and the institution issues a bill to the health insurance fund, i.e. the person himself does not pay 30 euros. What happens, though, is that in order to compensate for the cost of the treatment, the health insurance fund must conclude contracts with dentists. Unfortunately, however, the health insurance fund has used a power position and prices are not in line with reality, and the health insurance fund makes price dumping. The Dentists' Association has made it very clear that no contractual partners will be found under such conditions, with 5% of dental care providers entering into a contractual relationship here with the Health Insurance Fund. This means that a person does not really have the opportunity to receive support. He or she must choose a dental care provider who is in a contractual relationship with the health insurance fund; he or she can no longer choose which dentist he or she attends. This is not a normal solution in today's medicine, because there is free movement of patients within the European Union. So what's the solution? The fact that the compensation is financial. The person then chooses a dentist, pays for the treatment and applies to the health insurance fund for compensation. Very simple. The Social Affairs Committee repeatedly proposed that the Health Insurance Fund and the Estonian Dental Association sit down, find common ground and bring positions closer together. Unfortunately, this did not happen; all parties remained in their positions. Unfortunately, the Estonian Free Party Group cannot support the draft. It would have been very easy to make dental benefits financially, as is currently the prosthetic benefit for older people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U113	Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U114	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, What's the situation in dental care, nobody really knows. It is not known how poor Estonian people's teeth are in fact, because there is no competent research on this. According to a survey by Emori last year, only 37% of Estonian population aged 15 to 74 attended dental visits in 2015. Men, 20 to 29 years old, people with lower education and people living in rural areas are the least attending dentists. Most are hampered by economic reasons. They also point out that since there are no complaints, there is no reason to go there more often. Women aged 20 to 39 usually avoid regular dental visits for economic reasons. However, no one disputes that there are strong links between teeth and the whole body's health. The broken teeth damage the liver, kidneys, and heart, according to the doctors. The bad condition of your teeth is often also a sign of a serious illness. At present, dental care in Estonia is free only for persons under the age of 19 years, and for adults, the Health Insurance Fund pays in kind for dental care without applying the patient's own contribution. Pensioners receiving financial compensation and inability to work 19.18 euros a year, and mothers of pregnant and children under one year of age receive compensation of 28.77 euros. Neither amount actually covers the cost of the treatment. Proteese is reimbursed by the Health Insurance Fund for EUR 255,65 for three years. All these benefits must be applied for on the basis of an application, first they must be paid for the treatment themselves, and later the sickness fund transfers the above few amounts to the people's accounts. What Will Change From 1 July 2017? An important difference is that in the future, people will no longer have to apply for compensation themselves, but the whole settlement will take place between the dentists and the health insurance fund. There is no change in the basic allowance for insured persons under 19 years of age for dental care and uninsured adults, i.e. the existing benefits paid for children's dental care and in the case of emergency care do not go away. Moreover, in these cases, the own contribution is not applicable. However, the state will provide more support to persons who have been granted disability pension or old-age pension under the State Pension Insurance Act, as well as to those who have been identified as having partial or no working capacity, and to insured persons over 63 years of age. The amount of dental benefit for these persons is 85 euros per year, i.e. the sickness fund pays up to 85% of their medical bills, calculated that the total amount of medical bills or invoices submitted to the patient does not initially exceed 100 euros per year. The patient's own contribution is 15%. In the case of larger invoices, the amount paid by the State will still remain at EUR 85 per year and the own contribution will simply increase. If you think that the sickness fund was EUR 19.18 in the past, the increase to EUR 85 should certainly encourage many to go to dentists. The dental prosthetic allowance, EUR 255.65 for three years, will remain. dental care benefits for pregnant women, mothers of children under one year of age and those with an increased need for treatment will also increase from EUR 28,77 per year to EUR 85, the same principle being that, in the case of a €100 treatment bill, the own contribution will be EUR 15, or 15%. For adults whose benefit is now zero euros, the sickness fund will pay 30 euros per year from the 60-euro medical bill, or 50% per year. It is not a large part of the cost, but it should still give the opportunity to go to the dentist, even to those who have not done so far. The most important thing, however, is that the state will at last also pay for dental care with general anesthesia if it is medically indicated to an adult. At first glance, this change may seem insignificant, but it is invaluable for all those who suffer from mental and behavioural disorders or nervous system diseases or who suffer from severe physical disability. Finally, it is possible to perform a traumatic procedure or extensive dental care at once. Moreover, now that people with deep mental disabilities are receiving dental care with general anaesthesia only in Tartu, negotiations with hospitals in Tallinn have now started so that they can start offering the same service in Northern Estonia in the new year. Of course, these changes do not yet bring a bright white smile to all Estonian people, but they are certainly a step in the right direction. It should not be forgotten that under the current scheme dental benefits should start to increase from year to year. I will certainly wake all parents of my children, but why not also family doctors who are on their list of young people under the age of 19 more actively send them to the dentist so that dental discomfort is minimal in adulthood. The Social Democrats support the adoption of bill 301 as a law and call on all good colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U115	Viktor Vassilyev, on behalf of the Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U116	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I could, of course, have seen, stayed on the table, I didn't bring a bill or an explanatory note to read it all for the third time with all the figures. But you're smart people, you don't need those bills. I think any minded creature with teeth in his mouth can understand that this is a necessary thing, but the thinking of a politician is something completely peculiar. Very often, very foolish decisions are made, but a very smart face is made. This is especially the case in confused times. Crazy times lead to very confusing decisions. For example, the decision is taken that we are now doing a long show here forever, I don't know, night and day, and then after both the coalition and the opposition have to explain to their voters how well this event was and why it was necessary and how much it will benefit every person living in Estonia and the people of Estonia living abroad. This dental bill has been one of the few rays of light in this ridiculous darkness. We're really having a crazy time right now because power changed. Those who were on the top are now down, and those who were on the bottom are now on top of the role exchange. The committees also do not always know how to vote, because those who were always used to voting against the draft government must now, when the draft government is being discussed, raise their hand by voting in favour. But it's okay. It gets used to it. With this dental bill, there is such a thing that dental care is, in one way or another, compensated to a lesser or greater extent anywhere in the world. The politician can, of course, say that these are unscathed promises. Hey, the world is based on uncovered promises! If you take a loan from a bank and you promise to pay it back, that's the naked promise, where do you know you're gonna pay back? The entire state budget is an empty promise, built on tax receipts. Who promised you he'd pay his taxes? We have 2,000 years of Christ's return promised. Where is he? We're still waiting! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] So you have to get used to it. The world still has to go for the better. By allowing people to fix their teeth, we're fixing this world too, aren't we? There's no worse thing than toothache. Well, maybe only a politician's black conscience is worse, but unfortunately he doesn't feel it, but the more it hurts his constituents. So crazy times, yeah, and crazy decisions. But with this bill, it was also such a thing that the proposal for dental reimbursement was made by the Centre Party and, in my opinion, even twice. Both times it was thrown out of the procedure, and especially with the reason that if you give people money for dental care, they're gonna start treating their teeth! That's a great reason! I'm gonna keep this logical line going, so they fix their teeth, and then they start eating, all right? But what do we want? We want the people to be full, people to be eating, teeth to be there, smile nicely at you and smile at you on the election day, put the right note in the right box, not in the trash can, and our lives will be better. Oh, I'd like a few more minutes. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U117	Let's add two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U118	There's nothing to explain for a long time, everyone understands very well that this is a necessary bill. But the Centre Party never started it, and then it didn't work. There are good people in the Reform Party, they are really very good people on their own, and I am always happy to communicate with the Reform Party. If you talk rationally to reform parties, everyone understands each other, but when they're all together, there's gonna be some kind of mass psychosis. Such a collective phenomenon! Politics is a collective phenomenon. At some point, reform parties undoubtedly made the right and good decision: they actually submitted this bill. But now it turns out that the situation has changed, that we're up and they're down, and now it turns out that's our law. It's a little crazy, don't you think? I don't know how to deal with it. But I say that maybe it could be one of the few times that we could vote in common sense and adopt this law. If you do not vote for it, dear opposition, it will be difficult for you to explain to your constituents what you have against people's teeth. But if you vote for it, then again the question arises as to what opposition you are. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] However, policy should now be excluded. There's nothing funny here, I'm talking seriously. Sometimes it is not politics that should be made in the Riigikogu Hall, but good decisions for people that they too can understand that we have not sat here smiling at each other for nothing, showing all our 42 teeth. Yeah, it says 32 in the anatomy book, but if there's money, you can put more in your mouth, but unfortunately not all people have that chance. The ultimate humanity is that when you sit on a green branch and crunch candy, you don't drop papers, you can think about other people. So let's all adopt this law together! Let's do something good at the beginning of this day! Maybe there'll be something good left to us, and we'll be able to make good and right decisions later today, not only in the key that you still have teeth in your mouth, I'll put it away for you. Let's be people! Let us act humanly, then people will appreciate our work as it is actually worth. So far, we've had a hard time explaining this to people, but they'll understand. Good and wise decisions for you! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U119	Thank you very much. Just in case, I would remind you that we are currently negotiating a draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. The Reform Party supports the adoption of the Health Insurance Act and the Act amending the Social Tax Act. As a reminder, these changes to the Health Insurance Act and the Social Tax Act were developed by the previous coalition government, and their background was a good idea: to improve people's lives. Several significant improvements have been made, but the problem has become dental care allowance, which was intended as an important step in the health of adults. The problem now is that dentists do not agree with the limits offered by the Health Insurance Fund. In the Committee on Social Affairs, this was debated several times; this dispute was never concluded, despite the fact that the parties met several times. The situation is worrying because, according to a survey carried out by the Dentist Association, only less than 7% of dental care providers are currently prepared to enter into a contract with the Health Insurance Fund. This, in turn, means that the free movement of patients and the availability of services are not guaranteed. The Reform Party will support the changes foreseen in the draft, but will closely monitor how things will develop in practice and, if necessary, propose amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U121	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 301. We are now starting the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 301 amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 7 abstentions. Draft 301 Act amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U122	Today's sixth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft Act 330 on the ratification of the Protocol to the Amendment of the Status of the Baltic Defence College and its staff to the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania. I would like to ask Mart Helme, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission for the presentation of the Chair of the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U123	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill has already been through this hall, but as once foreseen, it has to come back again. This draft was launched on 14 November this year and the first reading took place on 23 November. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5.05 p.m. on 7 December, but no amendments were tabled. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading at its meeting on 8 December and unanimously approved it together with the text and explanatory memorandum. The bill changes the status of the Baltic Defence College and its staff. Pursuant to the 1999 Protocol, VAT concessions are granted to the College as an institution for the official use of goods purchased. However, the 1999 Protocol does not provide for the use of this VAT advantage by staff seconded to the College. The draft under discussion provides that the VAT paid on the durable goods listed in the Annex to the Protocol purchased by foreign staff seconded to the College for their personal use during the first year of service shall be reimbursed. The amendment does not concern the Estonian staff of the Baltic Defence College or the people hired from the labour market, but only those posted from abroad to the College. As the level of military education of the College depends on the staff seconded from abroad, the reimbursement of VAT contributes to improving the reputation of the College as an external service place. The payment of the allowance shall be made from the budget of the Ministry of Defence. This does not involve new costs for Estonia, but a slight reduction in revenue, which is marginal at national level, since the change affects about 22 people in the first year, and then an average of 7 people in the future. As of today, it is known that the Latvian Seim has ratified the draft under discussion. He's also been sending us a diplomatic note about it. It is a bit more complicated with Lithuania, as Lithuania is known to have held two rounds of parliamentary elections at the beginning and end of October this year, followed by a change of government. The new Lithuanian government took an oath yesterday, on 13 December in front of the Seim. Through diplomatic channels, we are aware that the process of approving this protocol has been initiated there. At its meeting on 8 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the draft would be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for second reading by 14 December. On the basis of § 115 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the Riigikogu would be proposed to the Riigikogu at second reading for final voting and adoption as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U124	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much, dear waitress. Do you want to negotiate? That's not what you want either. No amendments to the draft have been proposed. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 330 on the ratification of the Protocol on the status of the Baltic Defence College and its staff, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft Act 330 on the ratification of the Protocol on the Status of the Baltic Defence College and its staff, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U125	Today's seventh item is the Government of the Republic's overview of the stability subsidies granted by the European Stability Mechanism and the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Stability Mechanism. I would like to introduce to you the procedure for processing this item. First, there is a presentation by the Minister of Finance, which lasts up to 20 minutes. Then there are questions; a member of the Riigikogu can ask the rapporteur one oral question. Then there will be negotiations, during which representatives of the political groups will be able to speak. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. Please, Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! According to the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), it is again time for an annual review of the stability grants granted by the ESM and the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the ESM. As a preliminary point, I will mention some general facts about the activities of the ESM over the past period. The year 2016 has been peaceful and has brought good news. In order to complete Cyprus' adjustment programme, less money was needed than planned, Spain also made another voluntary repayment and has now repaid EUR 6.3 billion to the ESM. The Greek programme is proceeding as expected. It was confirmed in June that Greece had met the objectives set for the first survey of the programme. A second inspection is underway, which is expected to be completed in the near future. Despite the negative interest environment prevailing in the markets in 2015, ESM was able to make a profit of EUR 729,4 million. As in previous years, profits were allocated to the reserve fund. To date, EUR 1.43 billion has been raised in the reserve fund and this money is used to protect paid-up capital against possible losses. It is expected that the positive trend will continue until the end of 2016 and that the ESM will thus be able to further increase its reserves. I'm going to ESM now. Currently, Spain, Cyprus and Greece are ESM clients. Greece is the only one of them in the active phase. First of all, I'm talking about the programmes that have ended. The Spanish programme has already ended in 2013. The aim of the programme was to put the banking sector in order. Spain remains under post-programme surveillance, which means regular European Commission monitoring missions. The monitoring mission in October showed that the Spanish financial sector remains stable. The quality of the banks' assets has improved and the restructuring of the state-aided banks has almost been completed. Economic growth is recovering in Spain. Spain has paid EUR 6.3 million back to the ESM before the deadline from 2014 onwards, paid two repayments in 2015 and made one payment this year. Voluntary repayments made before the deadline are evidence that the ESM programme helped Spain to restructure the banking sector and supported the rapid recovery from the financial crisis. Cyprus's aid programme ended successfully in March this year. The programme aimed at restructuring the financial sector. As a result of improved economic performance and rapid recovery of the economic sector, Cyprus needed only 6.3 billion out of the EUR 9 billion initially planned. Just as Spain remains under the post-programme surveillance of Cyprus. The Commission's first monitoring mission took place in September. The reforms carried out during the programme have managed to improve the financial sector in Cyprus and the current growth rate in 2016 of 2.8% of GDP is above forecast. As a result of fiscal consolidation efforts, Cyprus is expected to meet its fiscal targets. The improvement in confidence in the banking sector is signalled by the ability of banks to increase deposits, improve liquidity and increase capital buffers. So it can be said that the reforms that have been made bear fruit. Now I'm talking about Greece. The Greek programme was approved in 2015 and will last for three years. The programme will amount to EUR 86 billion. Six interim payments have now been made to Greece, with a total of EUR 31.7 billion being paid out. Greece will use the loan to service public debt, restructure the banking sector and eliminate deficits. Greece will be helped to implement state governance reforms and improve the competitiveness of the economy. Greece met the targets set for the first survey in June of this year. It is worth noting from the programme's major achievements that Greece was able to recapitalise four systemic banks, with a total cost of EUR 5.4 billion for two banks, and two banks covered their additional capital needs with market resources. As a result, only EUR 4.6 billion of EUR 10 billion was used by Greece for the recapitalisation of systemic banks. Since 2009, the number of public employees in Greece has fallen by 25.9%. As a result, the payroll has decreased by 31.4%. In addition, Greece has carried out significant privatisations. For example, 14 regional airports have been privatized and Greece's largest port, the port of Pireus. In May, the Eurogroup agreed on general debt relief measures with two main objectives. Firstly, it was intended to make the loan repayment schedule more affordable for Greece, thereby ensuring that in the long term Greece would be able to serve the loan. Secondly, it was intended to respond to the IMF's comments on the alleged unsustainable nature of the Greek debt service and to persuade the IMF to join the Greek third aid programme. The IMF has not joined the programme, although the Commission and the European Central Bank are negotiating. Both the Commission and the European Central Bank, with the support of the Eurogroup, are trying to create a situation in which the IMF would have a desire and opportunity to join Greece's third aid programme in the future. In doing so, the Eurogroup excludes the possibility of writing down the principal of the debt and stresses that all debt relief measures must remain within the framework of European Union law and the ESM basic acts. In June, Greece fulfilled the precondition for debt relief measures, i.e. the first review was successfully completed. The following measures will therefore be taken gradually. First, the EFSF repayment profile will be adjusted to avoid large repayments in individual years, without changing the average weighted maturity of the loan. The EFSF and ESM funding strategy shall be implemented in such a way as to reduce the impact of possible interest rate fluctuations on Greece. A one-off increase in interest in 2017 for one instalment of the EFSF loan shall be waived. Following the completion of the ESM programme in 2018, the European Central Bank and the Commission will carry out an in-depth analysis of Greece's debt burden. Should it become apparent that Greece still needs debt relief, negotiations will start in the context of considering possible measures. I will now mention some important activities in 2017. Work will continue next year on Greece's third aid programme. This means that regular surveys and payments are carried out. The Riigikogu will be kept informed of the progress made in implementing the programmes through the European Union Affairs Committee. The results of the on-going second review are expected to be presented to the Riigikogu in January. At the annual meeting of the ESM, the Board of Governors approved a proposal for an in-depth evaluation of the ESM and EFSF programmes. The aim is to analyse the second programme of Spain, Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus and Greece. The third programme for Greece, which has not yet been completed, is currently not complete, so it is early to draw conclusions on the success of this programme. A working group of ESM staff and international experts will assess the effectiveness and design of the ESM and EFSF stability programmes and analyse the experience gained. The evaluation report shall be submitted at the next ESM annual meeting to the managers for approval and the results shall be published. At the same time, discussions on the role of the ESM in the changing euro area will continue next year. The aim is to make the most of the ESM's potential for two tasks. Firstly, the role of the Single Resolution Fund (SRF) protection mechanism, which is currently guaranteed by national credit lines, is envisaged for the ESM. Secondly, at the stage of deepening EMU cooperation, the development of the budgetary capacity or the stabilisation function of the euro area may be on the agenda. Finally, we are pleased to note that the ESM has effectively helped countries adjust their economies and supported important structural reforms in banking, labour market policy, pension systems and public administration at large. At the same time, the ESM is still able to maintain a high rating level and generate profits that are used as a security measure for paid-up capital. The profits earned are proof that the ESM is able to finance its activities independently without further burdening the Member States. Thus, the ESM has successfully fulfilled the role of ensuring financial stability in the euro area and will continue to be a guarantee that future crises will be effectively addressed. Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has kept the Riigikogu informed of the activities of the ESM and we will continue to do so. This year, the Government of the Republic has given an overview of the state of play of Greece's third programme in the Riigikogu's European Union Affairs Committee. In July, we sent the ESM Annual Report to the Riigikogu for information, which gives a more accurate overview of the activities of the ESM in 2015. The next overview of Estonia's participation in the ESM will be presented in autumn of next year. Thank you for your attention and I hope that cooperation will continue in the process of dealing with ESM issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U127	Minister, there are questions for you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! Everything in this world is changing, as is the euro area. When the future of the European Union and the euro area has been discussed recently, it has been increasingly recognised that it is vital to prevent the recurrence of financial crises. In this regard, it is interesting to point out in the future that a fiscal authority similar to that of the Treasury should be developed at euro area level. Do you have more information about this? The word'state treasury' would refer to the subject of one country. One argument is that the Treaties should not be amended. If you can comment on this, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U129	Thank you. It is really important, as you yourself said in the introduction to the question, not so much to deal with the consequences, but precisely with prevention. In essence, the ESM is precisely the kind of security mechanism that allows prevention. Moreover, when we look at national fiscal policies, we note that there is strong pressure to reduce public debt in terms of the ratio to GDP and to take into account a number of other factors that should lead to a situation where prevention is stable and forward looking. As regards the so-called potential treasury function, on which your question was raised, these negotiations on a treasury function are only just starting. As I have stated, Europe has a desire to make the most of the ESM. It is the second half of this task, the stage of deepening cooperation between the Economic and Monetary Union and the development of the capacity and stability function, which means that it might come to the idea of such an additional function of the Treasury. But, of course, negotiations are still ahead of us on how it should look and what effect it could have on possible prevention in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U130	Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U131	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Once, when Estonia joined the EFSF and the ESM, the Minister of Finance promised us that this was a very profitable project, and all the risks that were then discussed were, according to him, the result of excessive panic. After all, the ESM has largely revolved around Greece. Assistance has taken place through both the ESM and the EFSF and the European Central Bank. Estonia has fulfilled all its obligations, but no revenue has been received. This year, the budget of the Ministry of Finance has a line such as 'Accounted Allowances - €2.3 million'. This money is basically going to support the Greek Government, it is like the revenue we were supposed to receive. This money should be returned to Eesti Pank through the European Central Bank, who should then transfer it to the Estonian state budget, but it does not work that way. Where is this income or how much revenue have we received, and why are we giving money to Greece now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U132	Thank you. You can see for yourself that when you said a couple of years ago that Estonian society was collapsing and the money was gone, and you had all the other scary stories, now you yourself are saying that it hasn't quite happened. I'm sure I'd like you to admit that this system has begun to work. To both the questioners and those in the Chamber, I will say once again as a reminder what is really the point of the ESM and what is the purpose of national contributions. The primary objective is certainly not to generate revenue, although, as I said in my introductory speech, the ESM really earned EUR 729,4 million in 2015 despite the negative interest environment. As I have stated, the total revenue is now EUR 1.43 billion, which is well available in the ESM reserve account. This revenue is due to the share of all countries on the basis of their capital key. However, the primary objective of these countries is not to generate revenue, but to provide the financial stability that the ESM offers. I am thinking in particular of financial stability when one country or another comes into a situation where it is unable to borrow money from the financial markets. If it has a reasoned request, the ESM will enter the game, which will receive more competitive interest from the markets and will consequently have a better credit capacity, which it will pass on to a specific country. You said it was only Greece. In fact, there is no ESM in Spain and Cyprus. The reason why we have not talked about Spain and Cyprus very often is precisely what I mentioned that both countries have done well, the ESM has achieved its goal. Finally, Cyprus did not need as much financial capacity as initially agreed with the ESM. Spain, as you know, has started to pay back more quickly, which shows that the timely financial injection and the associated state promises have justified themselves. Spain has returned to the number of countries that can obtain loans at normal interest rates on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U133	The next questioner is Henn Põllamaas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U134	Thank you. Good minister! You argued that the Greek programme was progressing as expected and well. That's not true. Greece recently announced that it would allocate EUR 617 million to pensioners receiving EUR 800 per month, namely 1.6 million. This is a direct violation of the rules of the rescue program. After all, the money from this programme comes from our taxpayers, but most of our employees are only going to receive half of this pension, and the current incomes of our pensioners are not worth talking about. 50% of people live in poverty. How long will our people have to pay for the revelry of a richer Greece than us, especially in a situation where we lack the money to guarantee our own people a life of dignity?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U135	Thank you. You know, you illustrated your question with superlatives in both negative and positive terms. Maybe we should try to talk a little bit about the facts. One thing is estimates, the other is facts. Maybe the facts first. No Member State, not even Estonia, will give money directly to another Member State, not even Estonia to Greece. Member States have invested in a specific financial stabilisation mechanism on the basis of their capital key. The ESM is actually doing what it does to improve its financial capacity and channel the money from the market into a specific customer country. This is not about direct contacts between countries or giving money directly. The problem may arise at the moment when the customer country does not pay back the loan. Then this question would be justified, because other countries that have contributed and provided guarantees are forced to invest additional taxpayers' money in their own country. As regards whether or not Greece has fulfilled the promises it has made, there has been a very clear position here. This has been the case not only during the third but also during the second programme. Let us remember that last year, when it was the final phase of the EFSF programme, Greece was left unpaid through the EFSF for the very reason that it had not fulfilled one or the other of the promises it had made. The third programme keeps exactly the same line: before promises and then financial capacity. If we look at what Greece has done, we will see growth in financial stability, competitive investment and reform of state governance. It is possible to highlight a number of measures that Greece is currently taking. One thing is true: Greece has not done so at the pace it had been expected. Europe is certainly putting pressure on Greece. We have agreed tasks and dates when something has to be done. This will certainly take longer than planned, but Greece knows that there will be no new financial injection until the tasks have been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U136	Please, Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U137	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Empty because of Greece now, we are going to take on another country where it can get sour, for example Italy. I'm pretty familiar with it, I watch every day what's going on in Italy. The political situation there is not exactly the most brilliant or beautiful, as it could be, especially as regards the oldest bank in the world, Monte dei Paschi di Siena and its possible financing. Surely you, as a highly informed Minister of Finance, who communicates with your colleagues in Europe, especially within the framework of the Soviet Union, know what the forecasts are. How can this affect the situation? This is speculation, but we must speculate, because there is also the Estonian taxpayer's money involved. Therefore, we need to take into account possible scenarios, we need to know what could happen if there is not enough private capital to finance the third largest bank in Italy for at least EUR 5 billion, and the country has to help, but at the same time, extraordinary elections are coming and the country cannot help. How can this affect the functioning of the ESM within the next six months, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U138	Thank you. You love to speculate, I know that. I remember that in previous years, if we have talked about the ESM, you have set up a hypothesis as to the potential cost of the ESM to the Estonian state. This meant that if the ESM had spent all its capabilities, 500 billion, and none of the customer countries to whomever this money has gone would have paid back nothing, how much would Estonia hypothetically lose. I remember that after that you went around for several days and said that immediately and immediately Estonia will lose this specific amount of money, just over one billion. We have no reason to speculate; speculation leads us nowhere. Rather, we should analyse the situation in one country or another and take some decisions on the basis of these analyses. It should not be an end in itself, simply to speculate and to incite tensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U139	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I will continue with this issue, which was started by my colleague, Mr Helme. You said that we would not allocate money directly to Greece, but we will do so: in the next year's budget, the Ministry of Finance will have EUR 2.3 million. It is also known that money has been transferred directly to Greece in previous years, with a total of 17 million, according to my estimates. You can specify that amount. But we are talking about paying back the profits generated by the European Central Bank's bond programme. If Eesti Pank has withdrawn from this interest rate refund scheme and if the same ESM in question does not provide for such an interest rate refund, why does the Estonian taxpayer have to pay the Greek interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U141	Thank you. I know that you and Eesti Pank have been discussing for a long time whether Eesti Pank should transfer even more of its profits to the state budget. I understand your argument hasn't come very far, but at least you've been arguing. It is a securities programme called Securities Markets Programme (SMP). This is a programme agreed by Greece in 2012. It started already from the EFSF, as one of its elements, and the aim was to reduce the debt burden on Greece. All Member States, including Estonia, made entries on ESM's special account mainly out of the profits generated in the securities programme. When we look at the Member States, including Estonia, we see that, in the case of SMP, the Member States do not have any costs or benefits. To embezzle this sentence, why there is no cost or revenue directly in the context of the state, I say that it has been agreed that, on the one hand, we will fix what the revenue is. Revenue is the so-called position generated by SMP. It shall be returned to the national central banks of all Member States, including Eesti Pank. Eesti Pank has benefited from this securities programme. Member States have taken a separate decision that this income will be returned to the Greek State because it was created by the central bank buying bonds in the securities programme and obtaining them in a much better position. He got that income and returned that money, so no profit or expense. Let's see what the relationship between the central bank and the state is. I do not know what the relationship between other central banks and countries is, but it can be said about Estonia that every year Eesti Pank transfers 25% of its profits to the Estonian state. This 25% is higher than the money that will be returned to the ESM special account in the context of the SMP securities programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U142	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U143	Thank you. At the beginning of this week, the IMF drew attention to the fact that the future austerity policy is detrimental to the Greek economy and prevents it from growing. At the same time, Europe, based on the ESM in particular, has continued very rigidly to demand budget cuts that can indeed turn into a brake on economic growth. This means that the hopes that Greece will pay back something will be reduced. Can it not be that the ESM has proved too rigid in changing economic situations? Maybe we should change our view of Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U144	Thank you. That's a very good question. There are several schools, some want to relax fiscal policy even more, and others are in favour of certain austerity systems. Looking at what Greece has done and what agreements have been, as I mentioned earlier, it is clear that Greece has not done everything at the rate we expected, but the things that it has implemented have created a situation where Greece has reached the primary surplus. Let us be honest, the aim is to reach the 3.5% primary surplus (i.e. the surplus that will be used as a basis for the repayment of interest loans). As far as possible mitigation is concerned, I would like to ask you a question in return, even though I know that I cannot do so from this remote control, if you would like Greece to be able to further relax its fiscal policy, even though it is already far above 100% of GDP. I think that it is most likely that the European vision is rather that those countries that have had a looser fiscal policy over time should start acting within the framework that we have set ourselves, and, on the contrary, those countries that can be said to have cooled the economy a little bit with their fiscal policies could loosen that policy to some extent. This signal has been given to Germany, this signal has been given to the Netherlands, this signal has also been given to Estonia, which has had a much higher structural position than the existing position in the context of potential economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U145	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned, and this report also states, that the idea of the euro area Treasury is only at an early stage. Has there been any discussion on when this could materialise, and how do you personally, being closer to it, view this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U147	Thank you. Where I'm closer, I'm just as far away as everyone else. This information is public in the sense that when a minister communicates with his colleagues in Europe, he communicates not from his positions but from the positions of the government that are recorded in public documents. No minister has the right to put his personal positions on the table and protect them. As far as the potential European Treasury is concerned, as you said, as I said before to Mrs Tiidu, this could happen in itself. This also means that it should then specify which tasks the ESM will assume in the future. I think it's a little early to talk about that. The aim is to create such a stabilisation function in Europe and to develop it properly. Perhaps it is a little early to talk about this, we do not have any new information, but the European Union Affairs Commission is the institution that always coordinates Estonia's positions in the Riigikogu on such matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U148	Minister, thank you very much. No further questions for you right now. I would like to remind you that you have the right to speak again after that, in case you have a wish to do so after the negotiations we are about to start. Martin Helme, please! Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U149	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! I am very pleased that we are being briefed once a year on what is happening to the ESM or not. This gives us the opportunity to see who has been right and who has not been right. These processes don't end today, they go on. Unfortunately, in my opinion, the Minister does not take this opportunity to inform us, but basically carries out a formal task here. Yes, at the beginning, we will be counted a number of figures showing how well everything is, but we will not get an answer to the questions. I will repeat these questions, perhaps the Minister will come and answer again. We asked why the Estonian taxpayer would specifically support the Greek state with 2.3 million euros in the next financial year. We didn't get an answer. We asked why Greece would be allowed to break the rules of the rescue package while continuing to pay out to it. We didn't get an answer. We asked what risks are waiting for us because of the banking crisis in Italy. Yeah, maybe'speculation' isn't a good word, especially when we're talking about banking. But it is quite clear that, as a country participating in the ESM, we have some risks due to Italian developments. We could assess these risks in general terms in this Chamber so that we know what is coming. We asked that if everything is so great, Spain is doing well, Cyprus is doing well, Ireland has already graduated from the programme last year and Greece is doing well, where our profits are. How much profit have we made? We had to make a profit. How much then or when? We have not received an answer. But we heard something a lot scarier. We have heard that the plans are moving to centralise the national treasuries of the Member States of the European Union in Brussels. That makes sense in itself. If we have given most of our payments to central organisation, if we formally accept it here, taking out loans for other countries and paying money to other countries' budgets, then frankly, what difference does it make where the Treasury is? But it does not make sense in itself if the Estonian state transfers all of its money to someone else and only pays off its debts. The scariest thing was that from the Minister's mouth we did not hear any encouraging signal that the Estonian state would oppose this plan. At least I didn't understand that. I would be very grateful if the Minister would still come here, answer these questions and tell them how it is, whether or not we will give our wallet to Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U150	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U151	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The creation of EFSF and ESM may not have been a very pleasant process, but it was an inevitable process needed to ensure stability in the euro area and, in fact, throughout the European Union. The survival of the euro area is vital for Estonia and is necessary for the European Union as a whole. In fact, nor would the world win anything if there were very big banking or other fiscal problems in the euro area or in the European Union. Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus have been positive examples. However, there is also one major negative example of Greece. Throughout this period, major discussions have been held on how to help one country or another and how these rules are being enforced. Greece has shown itself to be very bad. Yes, in the summer of 2015, when it seemed hopeless, it was finally decided to give up. Unfortunately, it has to be noted that Greece has undertaken this whole process with the utmost reluctance. Although very much has been achieved, there is still no guarantee that it will end well, because over and over again we hear Greek politicians giving signals to do something entirely different or to do nothing or toss the whole thing where it and the other one. So, unfortunately, Greece is still not a sufficiently reliable partner. Perhaps it would feel a little calmer if the European Commission were to take a more rigorous approach to the problems of a number of other countries that have not been involved in this programme. I refer here, above all, to Italy and France, which consistently violates the rules, but again and again they are forgiven and given more time. I understand that it is difficult, it is large countries, but it is these great complex things that can eventually lead to a situation from which neither the EFSF can be saved, yes, it is closed, nor the ESM is. I'm sorry, Minister of Finance, I wanted to address you. I hope that the Minister of Finance will be tougher in the European Commission against those countries that do not meet the requirements. I would very much like to talk about the plans that have already been mentioned here. The fact that the euro area is talking about a possible fiscal aspect and that there is going to be some sort of treasury thing is worrying. This is definitely not what we should be heading towards. There have been stories like this before, but it seems that they have become more alive. It is sad to hear that the Minister of Finance did not know, did not want or did not want to do so, and I do not know for what reasons to open up this subject any more. I was also concerned that the presentation by the Minister of Finance sounded and, in fact, in the news for the last few days, there has been such an opportunity that the Minister of Finance intends to move in the direction that the budget deficit in Estonia should start to grow and we would abandon the structural balance of the budget. I have the feeling that slowly and slowly, the government is moving away from the fundamental basis of Estonian fiscal policy, i.e. conservativeness, under the leadership of the Minister of Finance. I really hope this is not the case, but unfortunately the messages have been the opposite so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U152	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Honourable Minister, I see you are making use of the opportunity to conclude under § 71.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I listened to what you were saying. That was surprising. I mean mostly the EKRE story. It seems that we have reached a situation where no matter what the answer is, it does not suit you, if you do not like the answer, it does not suit you. We were talking about what is the profit of not only Estonia but also of other countries, you used this word, which is due to the fact that the ESM has transferred money not only to Greece but also to other countries. I'll tell you one more time, listen carefully! This profit is European financial stability. That's the profit! We are no longer forest brothers anywhere near Viljandi in the deep forest; we are part of Europe, part of the world. Get out of there! The benefits are when Europe is stable. The ESM is designed for this purpose. We will once stop at the budgetary balance that Mrs Lauri spoke about. It has nothing to do with the ESM, but since you brought it out, I think it makes sense to stop at it once. I expect we'll be able to discuss this soon, discussing one of the next drafts to come. We are in a situation where the basic law of the state budget requires us, if there is a structural deficit, to deal with the budget in structural surplus in the coming years in order to cover the deficit with surpluses in the coming years. I think it would be wise to take a different decision. If there has been a structural surplus in the past, it would be possible to take advantage of it in the coming years. Why do we want to artificially cool our economy even more? What for? That should not be our goal. I think we should work in both directions in a balanced and cyclical manner. If there's a deficit, we cover, if there's a surplus, then we take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U154	Thank you very much. As we do not take a decision, this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U155	Today's eighth item is the second reading of the State Legal Assistance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws. I would like to ask Jaanus Karilaidi, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to present the chair to the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U156	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by pointing out that the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 28 September 2016. The first reading took place on 19 October and the deadline for submitting amendments, and by 2 November the Estonian Central Party Group tabled five amendments to the draft. No other requests or proposals for the draft were received. More specifically, the draft regulates the availability of first-level legal advice. The procedure for the legal aid competition will be changed, organised by the Ministry of Justice. In the future, the round of participants will expand, and the winner of the competition will be awarded for up to five years. There is no time limit for contracts under the current regime, but in practice contracts have been concluded for one or two years, which is an inefficiently short period. Under the current rules, the state's legal assistance service provider can only receive support if it is an NGO or foundation. According to the draft, it can be granted in the future to all legal entities, such as law firms. The Ministry of Justice will supervise the service. The draft provides for a better use of the resources allocated to the provision of state aid. For example, if a secondary offence can be resolved by a short procedure and the suspect does not apply for a lawyer, the state will no longer be forced to appoint a lawyer. Similarly, persons who have been assigned a representative in proceedings without a civil action without his own request shall be released from the obligation to reimburse the costs of legal aid. This amendment alleviates the situation of beneficiaries of State aid, as the amount of state aid must, in general, be reimbursed in whole or in part to the State at a later stage. In addition, the draft provides for a premium higher than usual for the Chairman of the Viru County Court to motivate judges in the standing service of other courts to stand as head of the Viru County Court and to transfer the national register of state and local government institutions to the Business Register Information System platform. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading on 6 December 2016. Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice and Mr Gunnar Vaikmaa, Head of the Department of Justice Administration Policy, freelances, took part in the meeting as representatives of the initiator of the draft. Representatives of the Estonian Bar Association, the Notary Chamber and the Estonian Children's Protection Association were invited to the Legal Affairs Committee meeting during the drafting phase, who did not attend the meeting. During the discussion of the amendments, the Commission found support and substantial consideration in the amendments of the Estonian Centre Party Group, which will subsequently exclude the rejection of the application for state legal aid if the application is not submitted in Estonian or, by way of exception, in English, if the legal aid applicant is resident or established in another Member State of the European Union. In cooperation with the representatives of the initiator's committee, the amendments were formulated as amendments initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Estonian Central Party Group withdrew its amendments. At its meeting on 13 December, attended by Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, Deputy Secretary General Marko Aavik of the Ministry of Justice and Head of the Office for Freedoms at the Department of Justice Administration Policy, Gunnar Vaikmaa, the Committee on Legal Affairs amended the wording of its proposal initiated on 6 December 2016 and decided to initiate an additional amendment necessary for the operation of state legal aid in the event of a failure to call for a national legal aid provider. In total, three amendments have been tabled to the draft, all of which are initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs and each of which is further explained in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft. I'm not going to read them now for the sake of saving time. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 14 December 2016 and to propose that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading is completed, we will have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading by 15 December 2016 and to put it to the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U157	You have questions, dear waitress. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U158	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that this meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs last night, 13 December, was held at the Reinsalu-covered feast, where the Commission was presented with a fact between the wine and the meal, and an amendment was voted in with the coalition votes, which in principle allows the application for legal aid in Russian in Estonia to be presented in the future. This amendment, which is said to have come from the Commission, but, in fact, it has been developed by the Ministry of Justice and Urmas Reinsalu, goes against what Reinsalu has said earlier in this Chamber. There's been this kind of bill here before, Yana Toom has submitted them. Reinsalu then always said that if the law on state legal aid were to be amended in such a way as to allow the application for state legal aid to be made in Russian, the constitutional requirement that the language of the case be the official language would be called into question. Do you think Reinsalu lied when he spoke it in this Chamber of the Riigikogu and he did it not only once, or did he lie yesterday at the Legal Affairs hearing when he said that everything was okay and Russian was a nice language?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U159	I certainly wouldn't blame Urmas Reinsalu for lying. I would like to remind you, for the sake of history, that the Aliens Act was passed in 2010. It was adopted with the votes of the Reform Party and the IRL. In this basic law, Russian is written alongside English and Estonian. So these accusations aren't very appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U160	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U161	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You missed some of the changes foreseen in this draft. I see a fundamental contradiction here. The draft provides that if the suspect does not seek to appoint a lawyer, the state will no longer do so, although it has so far. Yesterday, at lunchtime, you came up with a new amendment that the translation of the application submitted in Estonia in the most common other language will be organised by a processer, which is contrary to the previous principle that the application does not need to be made and all will be translated immediately. Why is there such a contradiction here, and from which budget will the judge finance this translation, either from the state's legal aid budget or from the court's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U162	In any case, the provision of legal aid services will be significantly improved. The decree of the Minister of Justice also provides for the application of this law as an implementing act. There will be a public competition and additional resources of EUR 700000 per year for service points coming to 15 county centres. So in any case, this bill should show positive emotions. These contradictions, to which the questioner was referring, were not discussed or observed in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U163	The next questioner is Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U164	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good waitress! When the new government came to power, noble principles were written into the coalition agreement that the position of the Estonian language should be strengthened and the teaching of the Estonian language expanded. Budget expenditure was also written in order to allow all of this to be done. At the same time, our party expressed and I personally expressed great concern that, given the clear range of estophobic instincts and the large number of Russian voters in the Centre Party, there may also be a hidden agenda here. On top of that, I was told no-no, don't worry, the IRL is defending national positions in this government. This draft clearly undermines the position of the Estonian language as a working language of the entire Estonian state. I have a question in the context of this draft and coalition agreement: what should motivate the Russians to learn Estonian, even if the taxpayer pays them to do it in court in Russian?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U165	The task of this draft is undoubtedly not to motivate language learning. The purpose of the draft is to provide better legal assistance to the people here. The lack of legal assistance as such is a problem, a very serious problem, this is shown by a number of studies. The Lawyers' Association and the City of Tallinn have dealt with the possibility for citizens to receive legal services. This has been done in a semi-voluntary way, the task has not been entrusted by the state to the local government. What is currently being done with this bill is a major step forward. When we talk about the protection of the Estonian language and the future, it is undoubtedly possible for Parliament to initiate drafts in order to do it all better. But I remind you, I also mentioned this in reply to Valdo Randpere, that Russian is even bolder and even more clearly written into the Aliens Act. So the Reform Party and the IRL have been working on this since 2010 and in a much more secure way of speaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U166	Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The term 'Estonia's most common other language' raises questions. The question arises first of all as to whether there is a single language or whether there may be several languages. Is this some completely new vague definition, or is it in some other law? In the interests of legal clarity, would it not be more appropriate to say which language do you mean? The other language that is most common in Estonia cannot change very closely, so one month would be the second language of the month. In my opinion, it is simply unclear and somehow concealing real intentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U168	Thank you. This question was indeed at issue in the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Of course, we also mean Russian here, it is elementary. But we need to make sure that, due to lack of language skills, the service does not go unsolicited to the person who needs legal assistance. It's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U169	Valdo Randpere, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U170	Thank you. As I said before, with this same and similar bill, basically the copy and paste method has been rattled many times in this hall. Yana Toom presented such a draft here in 2012, Dmitri Dmitriev not very long ago. The IRL has always been very clear that Estonian must be the only language with which justice can be handled and where legal aid applications can be executed. My question is a little bit of the same area as Andres Herkel's, but I'm more frank and honest. Is it because the IRL could not in any way swallow the expression 'promise also in Russian' that the concept of the most common other language in Estonia came here, which is not legally fulfilled? It is a very dangerous road to which the Committee on Legal Affairs is now going that we are choosing a concept that is not actually defined anywhere. It's starting to cause debate. Is there another hide-and-seek game going on here, according to the IRL regime, or what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U171	It would be very difficult to describe the feelings of all six parties when dealing with this draft. I can say here on the remote today that this is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U172	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We can see that with the coming of the new coalition, a rather massive attack on the Estonian language has quite clearly and unambiguously begun. This is about how exceptions can be made to Russian upper secondary schools, it is also linked to the current draft, it is supposedly related to the proposal of the national party, Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the IRL, to translate the minutes and other documents of the Tallinn Council into Russian, etc. So is this what, in its time, distinguished the Centre Party from other, so-called national parties? Is this the goal of the current government, which is being carried out in such a way, to realise the bilingual and zero-citizenship option?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U174	I say third time: I recommend reading the Aliens Act, which has been adopted by the Reform Party and the IRL, and where Russian has been introduced very clearly. But when there is talk of an attack on the Estonian language, I think it is malicious political behaviour. The attack on the Estonian language can certainly not be found anywhere in this area, even if you wish to do so. What you can find here is respect for all the people who live here in Estonia. We really help people. It's a practical bill we're helping people here. I think you need to look at the substance of this bill a little outside political rhetoric and slogans. If a person goes to a legal aid point and does not speak Estonian, he or she will be assisted. The application is put into Estonian, because the language of the case is Estonian. No one's gonna lose it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U175	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U176	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Have you stepped out of the current coalition, which has made it very clear in your coalition agreement: 'We promise that we will not only make decisions about our own wisdom, but will listen to entrepreneurs, experts, NGOs and opposition parties'? The draft we are discussing today has not been dealt with in such a way as to have been able to highlight at all the discrepancy that I made in my previous question, because you have consistently denied any need for a substantive debate on the draft. Have you stepped out of this coalition and abandoned his principles?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U177	It has been mentioned above that this draft has been dealt with in different ways by the various rapporteurs. There is no doubt that some procedural procedures can always be done better. Perhaps the coalition exchange should have been made much earlier, so many drafts could have been planned much more calmly, and there would have been no such time pressure, because some drafts and financial allocations are also linked to the state budget. Yes, there could always be more involvement and consideration. I do not see that there would have been a lot of substantive changes in this draft. But all this can still be done if anyone has any suggestions as to how this law could be amended in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U178	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U179	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I suggest you stop blaming the Reform Party and IRL for ever, in 2010, doing this or that. Just because a neighbor beats a woman doesn't mean you should. It would just be stupid and vulgar. If there's any mistakes, fix them. You're in the government now. That's another thing. When we talk about helping people, as taxpayers, collectively, it is not up to us to do charity. It is not up to us to think that all people should receive legal aid in their own language. That's my question. So far, we had little hope that the IRL would have some kind of national power that still existed in the government. But yesterday news came that Tarmo Kruusimäe City Council of the IRL Group has proposed to begin translating verbatim and minutes of sessions into Russian, and today there was a message that the IRL has agreed to this proposal, which he opposed for years, and is now eating his words. Could you read ahead of the minutes of the Committee on Legal Affairs, who was in favour of completing the second reading of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U180	According to memory, all members of the coalition who are members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were in favour of it. Secondly, I reject your argument. You certainly don't blame the Reform Party for beating a woman, that's a bit harsh. I do not agree, Mr Jaak Madison, with the statement that it is not in our interest to help people here get legal services. The way in which people here understand our laws and our legal framework depends in many respects on the future of our country and our people. It is useful to understand, understand and adapt to the laws of the Republic of Estonia. So in any case, it is also in the national interest of Estonia if you so wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U181	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, you are the fresh chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Do you think that the whole procedure of this bill has been going out until today, and I understand that it was going to be out until tomorrow? Should it not have taken a time-out in the procedure of a bill with problematic places and questions raised by this House? Why are you in such a hurry?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U183	I'll answer you two ways. First of all, when we speak on a formal basis, everything is formally fine, because the Riigikogu Board was also consensually in favour of doing a second and third reading so little apart. Taavi Kõivas, a member of the Reform Party, did not see the problem here either. He could have put his hand up on the board of the Riigikogu and said that he protested because this is not the way to deal with the legislation. Formally speaking, everything is fine, but it could, of course, have been better in terms of substance. So there's two different directions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U184	The Board of the Riigikogu is based on both the formal and the substantive aspects. What matters to us is the proposal made to the Board of the Riigikogu by the Commission. Andres Herkel, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U185	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I still have the same questions. Can this bill also have a link to the state budget, or is it the reason that drives haste? He's the raw one. I will repeat my first question. Does the term 'Estonia's most common other language' still exist in any law? If there is no inscription, I assume that it does not occur, then it would make sense to replace it with something that would be more understandable and legalistic. Even if I didn't like Russian being written there, it would be more honest of you to write it there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U186	The Committee on Legal Affairs may undertake to obtain an overview of the laws in which such a concept is included. What was the first part of the question? Yes, with this draft we will see another EUR 700000. If the expenditure so far has been EUR 150000, a total of approximately EUR 900000 is foreseen for the legal service next year. By decree of the Minister of Justice, it is possible to launch a competition right at the beginning of the new year or at the end of this year to find the person who is able to provide legal assistance to people at 15 county centres. So, yes, it has to do with the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U187	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I did not realise yesterday in the Commission whether they would be added to EUR 700000 and, as you have said many times today, 15 service points, probably a translation point, creating new jobs or simply giving available translation resources more finance. Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U189	There will certainly be more jobs when resources are added, but whoever wins this competition is difficult to say today. The circle of service providers is getting bigger, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. But who wins this competition and how much human resources he is able to provide this service in 15 county centres is illustrated by the outcome of the competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U190	Please, Martin Helme, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U191	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good performer! There was earlier talk about the law on foreigners and the fact that the IRL has already made huge concessions and concessions there. The IRL goes around calling itself the Fatherland for some reason, but this is, of course, hollow rhetoric. The more we see their real political content, the more it is clear that they have nothing to do with Estonia. But here it was said that respect for the non-Estonians here should enable the Estonian judiciary to go to court in another language rather than in Estonian. We have non-Estonians in this very hall who speak Estonian for their respect for the country and the people, that is no problem. I want to know two things again. First of all, what would be the motivation for the people who live here to learn Estonian if we lost the need? Secondly, if there are going to be a lot of people here who speak Arabic, for example, are we Estonians going to pay for their translation service out of respect?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U192	I repeat: the future of the Estonian state would be better protected if everyone here could understand very well the meaning of the laws here. This is in the interests of the future of the Estonian people, so it serves the national interests of Estonia in accordance with the rhetoric of your party. Take it this way, do not seek the form of the enemy, which at times, I understand, gets very small, and then existence becomes very small. That's not the case with this bill. How to motivate people to learn more Estonian, how to create more jobs in Estonia so that it is better to live here? I think it's difficult to solve all this with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U193	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U194	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. I understand that this bill is partly written about the fight that lies ahead in the local elections for Tallinn. Since the Centre Party panictically fears that you may lose the support of the Russian electra in Tallinn after the'murder' of Savisaar, it is necessary to bow down to these people. A colleague approached me just recently and asked if our group would support the transformation of Russian Christmas and Russian New Year into public holidays. I said that, of course, we do not support it because we do not follow the ethnic principle in this regard, but because Estonia is a country in which all citizens have the same privileges and obligations, regardless of nationality. But if you are so concerned about legal aid, would it not be more reasonable to spend the money, the hundreds of thousands you have mentioned, on preparing textbooks, training teachers and improving the training system?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U195	Yes, I agree with the need for additional funding for textbooks, teachers and training systems. We are in complete agreement here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U196	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U197	Thank you. Good speaker! Your understanding of the national interests of Estonia is very strange. It is certainly not in the national interest of Estonia to restrict the use of Estonian. Nearly 200 nations live here, and soon they will all demand equal treatment, i.e. translation into their native language. However, I do not know of any European country with any similar practice. Our constitution states that the state of Estonia is designed to preserve the Estonian language, people and culture. It is not a political slogan or rhetoric, as you said here earlier, it is an imperative, and it is the responsibility of all of us to comply and follow it. You said it was a proposal from the Legal Affairs Committee. Is this the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which you have led, the fact that the will of the Constitution and the national government must be demolished?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U198	It's about how someone reads the text. If EKRE thinks that the most common language is Arabic, for example, or if your policy is based on as many people with Muslim backgrounds in Arabic as possible, it would also be useful to expose us that you want it. Among our most common languages, I do not now see Arabic or Turkish. It is still a matter of common sense to look at the real situation that exists in Estonia and not to sow panic. I think this bill will make the Estonian state much stronger and our future more secure. Read this text with thought, not with political emotion. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U199	Jaak Madison, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U200	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good speaker! Knowing you as a truly Estonian-minded, nationalist person, I believe that we all understand that what you are saying now is nonsense. Talking about the fact that if everyone can read Estonian laws in their native language, it will help them to adapt better to our legal space and society... In my understanding, the person who comes here and wants to live in this country must learn the Estonian language as a first step. Whether he can handle it is half his problem. Whether he can adapt to this society is his concern. It's none of my business. I do not have to give up my rights or limit my living space to make the other one feel good and comfortable and to pay for all this money from the common taxpayer. It's up to him to do it here, it's up to him to learn the language and understand our laws. If he doesn't understand, he's not welcome here. It's as simple as that. Why are you doing this? Will the Estonian receive legal aid in Finnish at the expense of the Finnish taxpayer in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U201	I agree with you. We will initiate a bill that will motivate people here to learn more Estonian. We can do that. Let's sit down and think about how this bill might look like how much it costs and how it could be handled. Anyway. But this bill certainly does not deal with the dismantling of the Estonian language. The language of the case is Estonian, the foundation is not touched by anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U202	Question two, Krista Aru. [[???Vahelehüüe: 'Aga Soome?'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U203	Now Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U204	About Finland, about neighbouring countries at all, you have to look more closely at how interesting you are.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned that the speed of the procedure of the draft law stems directly from the connection with the state budget. You also mentioned interesting amounts, such as EUR 700000. How has such a sum been received? What's behind this number? Let's face it, 700,000 is quite a lot of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U206	The Justice Department is behind this figure. From the Ministry of Finance, this bill was requested to cover more than EUR 2 million, the real need is so great, because the problem in society is deep, but it received 700000. Why it was held up and why more was not obtained or why even such a good result was achieved was, in all probability, an agreement between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance. The real need is much greater. This bill should not only be viewed with the Russian people in mind. These legal services centres are made to Võru, Haapsalu, Kuressaare and all county centres. So staying stuck in Russian would be too narrow a point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U207	Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You haven't written anything off Jaan Poska, have you? In 1917 Governor Jaan Poska argued whether legal aid could be provided in several languages. His opponents said everything was zero-zero, so if you take a piece from someone and give it to them, one of them will always be poorer. Poska claimed that there is a win-win, as it is called today, a scheme that can win everyone, create synergies and domestic peace and other such factors. I wonder if there is any spiritual connection to the logic proposed by Poska, exactly as to legal aid as to the need for emergency?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U209	Thank you. In previous answers, I have already told you how the future of the Estonian state and the well-being of the Estonian people are better protected in this way. It seems to me, too, that the spirit of Jaan Poska is floating on here in the halls of Toompea.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U210	Please, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a two-part question. First of all, how does it seem to you that, if this law was adopted, could the laws of other areas continue to have the possibility that Russian-speaking affairs will take place in the Estonian state authorities? The second question is what I also asked in the Commission and to which there was no answer in the Commission. This issue is, as far as I know, an unnegotiated court administration council. Do you confirm that the court administration council, which actually regulates the workload of the courts and organises the lives of the courts, has not seen this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U212	The Courts' Administration Advisory Board has seen this draft. That's one answer. What was the first part of the question? [[Interjection.]] If you see here the possibility that Estonian will be lost in other state institutions or another language will come next to the Estonian language, I think this is the tenth time I say this, a mechanically engineered malicious policy. So there is no way to answer that question. In court, Estonian is the only language in which you can communicate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U213	Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you that two questions can be asked. Hanno Pevkur, you have dealt with two questions in time for one question, but the first part of the question forgot the answer. I will give you an opportunity to ask you another question if you want, but I am just saying that one question at a time could be asked in the future. Urve Tiidus, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U214	Thank you, Mr President. From history, I remember that in one minute you can ask three questions, but I'm not sure for sure. Here's my question. Dear waitress, You explained nicely how this EUR 700000 will be used, and you also said that the real need is much greater. When I started working in the Committee on Legal Affairs, there was a statement on several occasions that no application for legal aid had been rejected so far. What is the basis for this additional need for money, which analyses or thoughts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U215	The theoretical possibility that the application can be rejected is now also withdrawn. This option no longer exists and the allocation of this money will significantly improve access to legal assistance. Hanno Pevkur's blaming question as to which other state institutions still foresee the use of Russian had been put on completely wrong grounds.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U216	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U217	Honourable questioners, we are still within the bounds of courtesy. The night is actually young.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U218	Hey, Central Partymen, you're supposed to go underground for shame! Jaan Poska would turn around in the grave if he could hear what you're saying. What he did was in the Tsar Age. That's one. You, as a historian, should know this perfectly. You are exactly the same as the Sociers who, during the election campaign, claimed that all our well-known writers are Social Democrats, Tammsaare, Vilde, etc. Oh, shit! [[Laughter in the hall. The manager hits with a hammer several times.]] The former leader of the Centre Party announced some time ago that his spirit probably floats forward among you, that the Centre Party is outside the legal space of Estonia. That's exactly what the bill says. You spit on the Estonian constitution, you spit on the language law, you spit on the Estonian people. Is that the politics and ideology of this new fucking government? Are we going to see you tear down our nation state day after day? (The President shall strike with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U219	Let us put it this way: a good colleague, Henn Põllaas, I understand that at such an hour it is quite possible to get heated up. If you look at this world through a very small slit of your little political tank, you can certainly see this world interestingly and perhaps wrong. It's worth coming out of that tank and thinking calmly. In order to rethink Jaan Poska's mind, I don't think we have that much time resource right now. But when you speak of party spirituality, the Centre Party has based itself on the philosophy of domestic peace, to which Aadu Must also referred. In fact, there are many national interests: that we can reasonably exist here, also protecting Estonian culture and language. It's all in this bill. To see some kind of dismantling of the Estonian language positions here is simply your wishful thinking. It's not here. It's your dream that it could be here because then you could point the finger at it, but it's not. Show me where it is. I continue to argue that this is a very small category, a political spinn, nothing else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U220	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The law of the house and the rules of procedure really stipulates that in one minute I can read a poem here. If there is no question, there is nothing to be done, the President may draw attention to it and the respondent does not have to answer it, but one minute has been allocated to a member of the Riigikogu by the law of the house and the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U222	Agreed. The answer just forgot the first question in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U223	It always happens that the answer doesn't want to remember the question, but it's okay. Returning to this bill, I'll make a few adjustments. In order to improve the quality of legal aid, EUR 700000 was included in the draft before those crazy thoughts about Russian came into it. Let this be said for the sake of regularity. The Courts' Administration Advisory Panel has certainly not discussed this draft in this form, as these amendments were on the table yesterday in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The waitress could be more specific. Good waitress, do you really think that the practice you took as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs is right and fair and appropriate for the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U224	I once said that your party partner, Taavi Rõivas, as a member of the Board of the Riigikogu, also voted in favour of the second reading of this draft on Wednesday, which is today. He didn't see a problem with it, although he saw problems with some other drafts. Of course, time resources should be greater. I also said before when I answered Krista Aru's question that one thing is the formal side. Formally, we've acted according to the rules. We have seen that the adoption of the state budget is also close. As Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I will certainly take more time in the future to involve different political positions more in terms of inclusion and consideration of interest groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U225	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Hatter, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U226	Good vice chairman! Indeed, this bill changes a number of things. I will focus on the tactics of changing the language of proceedings, which is also the main issue in this Chamber, on which questions have been asked. These proposals cancel the last sentence of § 12 (5): 'The request forwarded to the court in Muus keeles shall be returned. " On 22 October 2015, the same Riigikogu was working on this topic. Then Dmitri Dmitriev was the one who put forward this proposal and defended it. The then chairman of the commission made it clear by quoting the position of the Government of the Republic: "In administrative courts, it is common practice that requests for legal aid from a state in Russian are directed to a judicial interpreter for translation. After translation, the judge can essentially resolve the matter. ' Basically, we have not been denied any applications due to the presentation in Russian. Applications for legal aid, where there is a factual, personal issue, or if it has not been possible to understand whether a person understands why he or she is applying for legal aid, have been rejected. At the same time, the position of the Government of the Republic was highlighted. The Government of the Republic is, as we know, an institution that does not change with the change of coalition partner. The position clearly states that the Government of the Republic does not support this amendment, firstly because the official language of the Republic of Estonia and, consequently, the language of legal proceedings are Estonian, and secondly because in practice there is no problem of access to state legal aid due to insufficient language skills. In practice, no application for legal aid has been rejected as a result of non-compliance with the language requirement. The same government has always explained that in practice we do not have such a problem. Andres Anvelt, for example, who, as I recall, was the leader of the political group at the time, made such an assessment that the lack of access to justice through the possibility of state legal aid does not depend on nationality or language, but is a much wider problem. In his opinion, the problem begins with the fact that the application and the accompanying documents do not prove the person's need for free legal aid. The vote was also raised in the same session by Juhan Parts of the IRL, who said: 'I read in the newspapers that the Centre Party has embarked on major changes. [---] I understand that Mrs Samson supports the granting of certain state status to Russian by small steps. " In his view, the problem was that the Estonian language was slowly fading. I'd say we're feeling like a small country's shame for our country right now. We are ashamed that we have people who should be able to speak Estonian and learn it, and this is one of the bases for keeping our country. We are saying the opposite with the bill, that you do not need to learn it, because we are doing everything for you and you just don't have the point of learning Estonian. Is that what we want to achieve to preserve the unity of the country and its culture and values? I don't think so. Yesterday, the Minister said that the draft had nothing to do with the state budget procedure, which the Speaker tried to claim on Monday when it started to extend the proceedings in a rough and surprising way. It's a real-life scheme. The way we decide one thing or another shows the quality of the Riigikogu as a whole. This also shows the level of responsibility and quality of work of the Riigikogu Board. We need to think very seriously about whether it is really the right way to deal with decisions. I also point out that I have concerns about the IRL. Their slogan is 'Time for the Estonian thing! '. Is this the new Fatherland? I would not want us to change our attitude to the Estonian language as one of our values with this bill. The Free Party Group therefore proposes to suspend the second reading of the draft 299. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U227	This will be dealt with after the amendments have been examined. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U228	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U229	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U230	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague, Henn Põllaas, was particularly direct in his speech, and so am I. So let's talk about the real reasons for things. Point 1, of course, it is about undermining the position of the Estonian language, strengthening the position of the Russian language and small steps towards bilingual Estonia. There's no question. You can tell me what you want, but that's exactly what it is. Why this is done is also very simple. Of the voters of the Centre Party, 80 to 90% are Russian or Russian and they need to be given a bone. They need to be shown that the Centre Party got into government, and now it's doing something for them. This needs to be demonstrated in particular before the local elections. In the soul of the Socialists, as I have already said, the heart of the estophob has been incessantly beating. They simply have disgust at the Estonian nation state and it motivates them. In addition, of course, they have a desire to defeat Russian voters from the Centre Party. Everything's very simple. Now let's look at the IRL. IRL leaders looked me in the eye when coalition negotiations were held and said that there was no need to worry about matters of language, nationality or citizenship, because they prevent all problems, which is why they go to that government. Well, the IRL word cost exactly that much... They say it's like... That's exactly what it cost. There is nothing to do, the Estonian state is a nation state according to the Constitution, the Estonian people are the only one who needs this state and without whom this country can no longer function. If we take away the opportunity of Estonians to do things in Estonian in our own country, if we gradually turn state agencies and the trial into bilingual, then the state of Estonia will no longer have any meaning. Then there is no point in paying taxes, there is no point in maintaining Greece, there is no point at all, there is no point in 2% of GDP, and there is no point in anything. If it is not a nation state, it does not make sense. Our party exists to keep Estonia as a nation state. That is why we also propose that the reading of this draft be suspended.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U231	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U232	Just in case, I'm asking for more time from the beginning. Maybe I'll get carried away.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U233	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U234	There's nothing to talk about for a very long time, though. But I'm gonna take it a little bit further. In my opinion, this bill, which is now in this Chamber, is one small part of the whole game of fraud or hide-and-seek that has gone off with the new coalition. The name of this hide-and-seek game is 'Don't smear the face of the IRL for God's sake, let them save anything in the eyes of their constituents, and let's call things different than they really are'. This is not the only bill we see here. In the run-up to the previous elections, the IRL promised that they would definitely not support the car tax. That is why the car tax was renamed the state fee for registration of cars. They will not, under any circumstances, raise labour taxes, as they have promised, but they will now be very happy to support the abolition of social tax cuts. In the same way, they have promised, as the previous speakers have quoted it beautifully here, to do the Estonian thing and to defend the position of the Estonian language in society. The same Urmas Reinsalu, who is now the Minister of Justice and who is afraid to admit that he is the author of this last amendment, which we are talking about here today and which will continue to allow legal aid applications in the so-called most common languages, said in the opinion of the Government of the Republic in autumn last year: I am not quoting the whole opinion, but I am presenting a small extract:'§ 6 of the PS states that the official language of Estonia is Estonian. [---] Administration is all official communication and activities related to official documents. In line with this, Estonian is the working language of the court according to the laws of the court proceedings. If the law on legal aid was amended to allow the application for legal aid to be made in Russian, the constitutional requirement of the state language would be called into question as the language of the case. " The result is now here! Reinsalu, who wrote this amendment, offered us, as has been said yesterday, a cake with jam, perhaps also Moscow bread, I did not notice, and an amendment was voted in between the two glasses of wine, which in the future allows legal aid applications to be made in other common languages. Even that much IRL doesn't have the courage to play hide-and-seek again. They do not dare to say that in the future applications may also be submitted in Russian, they say that they can be submitted in other common languages, which in turn is a legal problem, because no one has furnished this concept anywhere. I'm thinking a little bit about history. I have met many people, including older people, Estonians who were once deported to Russia. They have talked about how eight Estonian children, none of whom could speak Russian, were given a mathematics textbook in Russian on the first day. It was their immersion. I also think that in Russia, no small people can apply for legal aid in any language other than Russian. I wonder why. I'm thinking about how Yana Toom, Dmitri Dmitriyev and some other middle partymen have been coming in and out of here with the same bill for years and have been receiving the same answer all along, especially from the IRL. Today, no one from the IRL has come to see one person, in the meantime only one unhappy member of the IRL sat here, even asked any questions about this bill, I do not see that any calls were registered, perhaps some will come now. I don't see any interest. Maybe it's a sign that they're a little ashamed and have a conscience. That's the thing. I basically like people who have positions and who dare to stand up for them, even if I absolutely do not like their views. I have nothing against the Centre Party. You've been doing this all along, keep going, I respect you for that. There are few places where we don't bump into each other, but I also respect you for not turning away when we start bumping into each other. But my respect for the IRL has completely vanished in the last month. For God's sake, I don't know if you understand what you're doing to yourself. You don't have to, frankly, worry about what you're doing to me. But I'm quoting the classics. What can I suggest to you? Get over it and show me who you are! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U235	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U236	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I sat in the hall and thought until the last moment, whether to come here or not. There are some strange fights between Estonians here, the devil that I, the Russian, have to do on the remote. But then I decided that maybe my humble opinion would make you a little less comfortable. Yes, Estonia is a nation state. Doesn't that mean he's a nation? Does that mean something else? I have come to Võrumaa, Pärnumaa and all over Estonia to a village where there is a farmer who has not heard a word of Russian for years. Now I ask you, if in a place where the state has never done anything real in order for even children to learn Estonian, there is a chance to help people, would it really take it as a sin? I don't believe that. I don't want to believe it. I'm supposed to go underground on words like this, like my friend Henn suggested, but I'm still going to go ahead and turn personally, so it's easier. Henn, we're more or less a generation of people. When I was about seven years old, I realized I shouldn't mix pickles and milk. It was a painful but very useful experience. At about the same age, I think you did such a test and realized that they shouldn't be mixed, salt pickles and milk wouldn't be compatible. When I was about 15, I realized that neither beer with vodka nor vodka match port wine, and that's not what they call a cocktail, that's something else. It was an experience for the rest of my life. Why are you, honourable, interrupting such a thing as the language policy that I personally have spoken about since 1999 and, as a philologist, making recommendations that no one wants to listen to, and legal aid? Here's the next question. You're in some kind of trouble, God forbid it happens, but sometimes it happens, and you know that in the hospital you're going to, there's a surgeon that everyone praises. Or, given that today we were talking about dental care, let me give you this example that one dentist is the kind that everyone praises and everyone wants to run into the bush for the other. If you know that a doctor is good, does it matter to you what language he speaks? So where does that principle go? So, what's this all about? If the child is hungry, will you feed him or will you first ask him what language he speaks? We are thinking about the person who is otherwise perfectly suitable for the Republic of Estonia as a resident, maybe even a citizen, because he once took out this blue or green card or passed a much lighter exam in the 1990s, but who does not speak Estonian, works as a miner in Kohtla-Järve, pays taxes and keeps our economy up. If she is in trouble and needs to go to court, why do you object to her being able to do so in her own language? If you call it patriotism, I think patriotism is when you love your own, it's not that you hate others. It's not my idea, it's been said a long time ago. The question is that the whole of Europe is learning a new life now. Once upon a time, there was such a slogan as multiculturalism. The last few years have shown, and even Frau Merkel has said that this multiculturalism is not working out. At the same time, the conditions for living together have changed and everyone is watching how this thing is going to look and not just this year or the next. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U237	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U238	What's this thing gonna look like from now on? Okay, I think the time for slogans is over. For God's sake, independence was 25 years ago, an entire generation has grown up since then, they already have their own children. Perhaps I would look at it with such an eye that the 30% who speak Russian are not enemies of the state, but are normal people. How long such a situation will last! If Valdo's smartest people in the country are here, then I guess he's one of the 100 smartest, otherwise I can't say, I'm in this hall myself talking for 25 years, and the same one, of course, depends on which side you're on, one side or the other, how long can it last? I don't know. Well, it's kind of sad to look at it. I didn't understand a tea here. I myself am a very big historical enthusiast, not a pro, but just an interested one. That thesis was about Poska. From your dialogue here, I realized that Poska spoke to one of you in the Tsar Age and other than the Czarian, and she is a great person for both of us who began to debate this subject. But maybe Poska was smarter, maybe she knew how to act in one situation or another. That is, of course, a controversial question. The last thing is that maybe makes you think differently or at least think differently. Recently, I was reminded that I did not support this deportation statement. It will probably be remembered again someday, and I'd rather talk about it myself. The whole story was that I asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to mention not only Estonians but also Russians, Latvians, Jews and other nations who suffered back then. I took out this black book and opened it: Ivanove is there 12, I think, Mikhailov's 8. I'm not going to name names. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I said how many people have the same name on the list as those on the committee: one or two, but with some people there are no people of the same name at all. So, colleagues, pull back a little bit! No one will sink underground, just those people who live next to you will pay taxes and live under the same conditions, will receive a little more help from the state in the future. Doesn't it really deserve to end this crazy rhetoric once and for all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U239	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please! A procedural question, Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U240	Thank you. Please tell me if anything's changed. In my memory, only the representatives of the political groups can speak at second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U241	Your memory will fail you. Other members of the Riigikogu also have the opportunity to speak. Please, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U242	What a surprise! Been in this hall for so long, and still such surprises! Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have come here if I wasn't a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and I wasn't worried about that. It is not a question of whether the quality of this draft is good or not. We know that its quality is not good. When this was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, it was clear that the draft had been prepared on the run. First there was one version, then it was looked at that, oh-oh-oh-oh, now the Central Party Group went wrong skis and the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee has done some kind of self-action, and a new version came. The new version came overnight, then the Committee on Legal Affairs had to discuss it with the Minister of Justice at a small Christmas table. Well, you don't have to do that! There's no hurry with this bill. Its involvement in the state budget is artificial. The EUR 700000 that has come through here today had not been given to allow legal aid applications to be submitted in Russian in the future. No, it wasn't! This EUR 700000 had been given to the Ministry of Justice to improve the quality of legal aid and to increase the number of those receiving legal aid. Speaking of the substance of the bill, we all understand what's really on this table. Valdo Randpere has already mentioned that there is no such legal term as 'a common language'. My question also to the Minister for Justice was: what does it mean and what languages they are, whether Mandarin is such a language or not, and whether Latvian is or is not. They say it's a case-law issue. Well, we'll see. How many people in Estonia have to speak a language to make it a common language? There's no answer. It's a matter of case law. If we settle everything by case-law, then we end this case here at all, close civil proceedings and administrative proceedings, put an end to the codes and let the court decide everything freely. In any case, we understand that this is a sneaking authorisation of the use of Russian by the authorities. There is, in principle, one exception to the Language Act, which allows the Russian language or other language to be used in the administration: in a municipality where more than half of its inhabitants speak another language, applications and documents necessary for the administration may be submitted in that language. The fact that the possibility of submitting legal aid applications in Russian is not written out here directly in Russian, but we all understand what is being said here, can open Pandora's box or door, or whatever, in order for such provisions to enter other laws. The official language of Estonia is Estonian. No matter what we're going to call these things, we're not going to change the language law. I'm most sorry about the IRL. Sorry, I'm running out of time! Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U243	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U244	Thank you. IRL, you have always stood strong in the defence of the Estonian language. All the time! Now you are not in the hall to defend the Estonian language. Maire and Raivo, you will listen to this talk here, pass it on to the members of your group. It is not a normal move for the Minister of Justice, who is a member of the IRL, to put such a proposal on the table in the Committee on Legal Affairs. We have good legislative practice, which Minister of Justice Reinsalu has been jealously trying to follow. And now, both in the procedure of Bill 302, this is what we will be discussing right now, and in the procedure of this bill, like a rabbit hat, there will be amendments that have not been negotiated with stakeholders. In this case, even the Court of Justice Advisory Panel has not been consulted. No matter what we think of it, maybe nothing will happen and there will be no problem, but as a signal, it is terribly bad. It's awfully bad! As a signal, it is also bad that we impose an additional burden on the courts and do not know what impact it will have. There is no impact assessment of this draft, as there is no draft 302. We'll get to that soon enough. All the legal horror that has taken place within the last two days in the Committee on Legal Affairs should have been avoided. This matter should now be allowed to go back to normal channels to be discussed by the court administration council, sense would come to mind, and the application for legal aid could continue to take the form it is today. I have not heard this at the hearing of the Committee on Legal Affairs either, so that no one in Estonia has been given legal aid because the wording of the current state legal aid law is the same as it is. But now they want to put two more cuts in there, which will all turn upside down. There is no need to amend this law. Therefore, the Reform Party Group cannot support the further processing of this draft. In view of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, our only option today is to apply for the suspension of second reading. I very much hope that the IRL members will also come to the hall and press the button to cancel the second reading. There's no other way to take this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U245	Thank you. Next up, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U246	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, What is going on here, this bill, which has been presented, is the peak of audacity. I absolutely disagree with Mikhail Stalnukhin, who said we would stop this madness. But maybe you should say yes, I agree with Stalnukhin, let's end this madness. That's crossing Rubico. 'Alea iacta est,' said Caesar when he decided to go to Italy. It meant civil war, he didn't know if he was gonna win it, but he said, "The lot has fallen. ' If we approve this bill here now, the lot has fallen. I don't think most of this is news that I have quite a lot of experience dealing with the Russians in Moscow, before Moscow and after Moscow. I am well aware of the tradition, school and style of these diplomatic negotiations. It's a slice of sausage: not all the sausage is taken away at the same time, but it is sliced. So now. Let's take a slice of legal aid in Russian. We will take a second slice of Estonian in upper secondary schools. Let's take another slice with another, a third or a fifth thing like this. We Estonians are, as Andrei Kuzichkin said, like the big kids who let this sausage slice. Well, what's this one slice? Oh, we'll still have the whole sausage, let them have another slice! We're gonna have three-quarters of sausage left! It's not like that, guys! Besides, we spit on our constitution. We spit on our national pride. We spit on our sacred Estonian language, which is the basis of our whole culture and identity. We understand that there are opportunists in this hall, and not little. We understand that there are ideological internationalists here, and not few. But I am sure that the majority of the MPs in this Chamber are made up not of opportunists and ideological internationalists, but of those who say that the Estonian nation state and Estonian language are the reason why they are here at all. Now, respectables, all of you who intend to vote in favour of this bill! Not only those who apply in Lasnamäe or Ida-Virumaa, but also those who apply in Võru County, Saaremaa and elsewhere! Don't think they're gonna forget it! We will do our best to remind voters how you spit on Estonian. Before the previous elections, we reminded voters how the family was perverted by a matter called the partnership law. It worked well. Well, a lot of people who were in favour of the union law didn't get back here. Now I say to you: very many who oppose the Estonian language will not be able to return here again! There you go. So, respectables, think! Think deeply and act in harmony with your conscience! I understand that Russian MPs have their own understanding of things, and I respect that. But I do not understand why people whose mother tongue is Estonian have no concern for the future of the Estonian language and why their conscience is beating in the same way as people who think differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U247	Thank you. A procedural question, Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U248	Thank you, Mr President. I ask you to arrange that if a speaker uses foreign language sentences, they will also be translated into Estonian. I can also say that the nunc peach docti in casibus specialibus linguam latinum spectant, but it should be translated. Even today, trained men can use Latin, but not all men in this hall have been taught to understand the Latin Senate of a respected waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U249	Thank you. It was not a procedural question, but we consider it a proposal. This is not a question that the President should resolve. Next up, Henn Põllamaas. But first a procedural question, Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U250	I would recommend to my colleague a procedure such as not to doze. Mart Helme translated his Latin saying. [[???Mart Helme: 'Liisk on langenud – ma kaks korda ütlesin.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U251	It was not a procedural question either, but let's take that as an explanation. I would point out that the President of the Riigikogu will certainly not put words in his mouth for those who speak on the floor. If, for example, they want to use terms that may not be understood by everyone in the hall, it is their choice, and if they want to explain these terms, the better for all of us. There are no further procedural questions. Please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U252	Ladies and gentlemen, When I listened to all of this, I remembered two people, or rather the words they said. The first to remember was Edgar Savisaar, who once exclaimed: "The Toomheads are under attack! ' I have a feeling these attackers have at least partially already gotten in here. I am not surprised that you have supported this bill, I am not surprised that the Centre Party supports it, but I am very surprised that the IRL supports it. However, none of you in your programming documents states that your aim is to reduce the use of the Estonian language, expand the use of foreign languages, violate our constitution and destroy national statehood as such. No, remember that! Then I remembered Rudolf Rimmel, who was a communist in his day, and to whom much could be blamed, he has also been called a red nightingale, but whose heart was actually beating with the Estonian people, our desire for freedom and great hopes for the future. When he saw that our nation state was actually being destroyed, he committed suicide. But before that, he was able to write down some of the lines that I'm going to read to you. The title of this poem is "Personal independence." 'Sell down the forest and the sea and the sandy slope Your diluted blood here isn't the last sell off the glory and shame and blood watery That's how you feel. It's not through your nose. sell off the air and water to sell the soul of the fatherland And then start screaming for the joy of the crowd. sell off the child and woman it's not the last when the distant substitute seems quite horny sell off the soul and body that warm and general and prove the point of sale is the world in general When the land's sold green, he's gonna start clapping. Then tear yourself naked and go dancing. ♪ you dance ♪ ♪ on the narrow shore ♪ ♪ the ice is hot ♪ And yell upstairs, hey, so we came Sell off the beach lights, sell the whole thing. Here comes a new great flood after you. Let it sound a little in your heart and your head. Let it sound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U253	Thank you. Next up, Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U254	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will also make a few points, which have already been mentioned here, and which have also literally shown lies. Firstly, I am not surprised by the support of the Centre Party or the Social Democrats for this idea. I think that the most important thing in this Chamber and politics as a whole is that we know who stands for what, and there are no surprises. And there are no surprises. The Centre Party has always stood for zero citizenship and, as soon as the passport is in place, you are welcome here, no difference on the soil of nationality or patriotism, or on the surface of whether this country is really cared for, or whether the only thought is what would benefit this country. That has been their position. What the hell, we know that. Promoting bilingualism is not a surprise either. It's the same with the Snots. But the surprise is the IRL, who dares to call himself the Fatherland, wants to reform himself under the new patriotic name and comes to talk about nationalism. Please shut up about this, don't say that! It's embarrassing, it's lame, it's embarrassing and it's not pretty. Don't lie! If you have stood up for any principles for years, stand up, not at any cost to the government! Don't let the Centre Party do what they've wanted to do for years! It's your fault. Only one representative of the IRL has dared to remain in the hall with my respect for it! The rest of you are out of the room. Maybe they're watching a broadcast on TV, which would be good. But believe what has already been said by Mart Helme in our group: we did not leave the consciences of those people who tried to push through draft laws that did not find broad support in society before the previous elections in the Riigikogu. We will do the same before the next election. We're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it very powerfully. The IRL should not be in the next Riigikogu because we do not need liars here. But now I'm talking about the Centre Party. A good colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, introduced the aspect of deportation and the draft statement on 14 June in this Chamber, when seven members of the Centre Party decided not to vote at all. This recital, which I have read repeatedly in the media, that they were not accepted in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that the word 'Russians' was not included in the statement, is lying. I myself was then present in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I, who call myself a nationalist, was the one who said that we would take the word 'Estonians' out and replace 'Estonians' with 'Estonian' written in large letters, so that all the ethnic groups who were deported would be included in this statement. I proposed this in order to meet everyone and find consensus. But no, Mikhail Stalnukhin was the one who continued to chop back and together did not vote at all. That is the fundamental appeal in this Chamber: we simply do not want to vote in favour because we did not get what we wanted. That's the principle of chauvinism. We might as well have written down all the nations there, the Jews, the Poles, the Latvians, the Lithuanians, but if only one nation had not been mentioned and someone's relative had been a representative of this nation, it would have been an insult to them. That's why we agreed to take 'Estonians' out and write down the common denominator 'Estonians', who all these people were. But no, there was a clean protest on your part and a tantrum on your part. It doesn't deserve any respect. That's another thing. It was about miners who work in the mines and deserve legal assistance for taxpayers' money. I'm glad they're working, I'm glad they pay taxes, but there's a fundamental difference. Some people in this hall are only looking at tax revenue, the one who pays how much. That's right, because it's good to have money brought to the party office with a plastic bag, it's good to have money coming from Russia to build churches in Lasnamägi. Some people's principle is only money, the one who pays more money. Take it or leave it, but it is. But there are other people who have valuable principles and a constitution, according to which we are a nation state whose official language is Estonian, that is, and that remains so. I understand there are people in this room who are ashamed of it and who don't want to stand up for it. Therefore, since they have sworn in this Chamber that they are working for the Constitution as a member of the Riigikogu, they are now going against it. Shame on them! We'll remind them! More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U255	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U256	Therefore, the main culprit in all that is happening in this Chamber is the Union of the Fatherland and Res Publica, who will allow this to happen, because the Socialists and the Centre Party alone will not have enough votes to put this thing into practice here. I looked at the speakers' list. A good colleague, Oudekki Loone, is coming to talk. I don't know what he's saying, but I can imagine what's coming out of there. I recall how he views Estonia as a nation state, Estonians and Estonian constitution. Let us look at or his commentary on social media, which was posted about a month ago. I can read it out loud so that it goes nicely into the verbatim: 'We shall be free when the word 'pretentious' has become an archaism, the meaning and formation of which must be sought in the dictionary. ' That is the attitude of one of the members of the Prime Minister's Group! This is an attitude that Conservatives always stand against and do everything they can to prevent this government from causing so much damage. Unfortunately, the government is currently helping the IRL to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U257	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U258	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! I honestly don't understand what we are discussing here today. The official language of Estonia is Estonian, therefore the language of the court must also be Estonian. As was clear from the previous statement, there were no practical problems for those who turned to the court. Okay, maybe I can't put myself above three coalition parties in that sense. But the other part of my problem is that, frankly, I also do not understand how we are discussing this and what has happened is why the second reading of this draft needs to be completed today and the third reading to be done during this week. I got smarter on some things during this discussion. There were a lot of emotions here, but I was able to identify a few facts. The first is that the concept of the most common other language is unedited, probably not in any other law. The chairman of the committee promised to make sure of this. I think we need to take the time to determine whether it has been or has not been used elsewhere and whether it can be replaced by something more reasonable. Today, it is another example of how things are not called the right name and trying to bring in something with a backhand that has a true intention hidden. It does not comply with the principle of legal clarity; it should be understood clearly by both the Minister of Justice and the Committee on Legal Affairs. This is the first reason why the second reading should be interrupted, which should also be done on a formal basis, not only because I do not like this draft. The second thing that came out very clearly as a fact is that there is no direct link with the state budget being dealt with, that is, there is no need to rush this bill, the respected coalition. Leaving aside all the emotions and without sinking into the IRL, that what face they make and what they have said in the past about the protection of the Estonian language and all this, I want to knock very seriously on the conscience of the coalition. There is no reason to rush this bill, there is no reason to make dirty legislation. There are very many reasons to interrupt the second reading of this bill, as we have also proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U259	Thank you. Next up, Oudekki Loone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U260	Ladies and gentlemen, § 9 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that the rights, freedoms and obligations of all and everyone listed in the Constitution are equal for Estonian citizens and foreign citizens and stateless persons present in Estonia. According to paragraph 12, everyone is equal before the law, no one must be discriminated against because of nationality, race, colour, sex, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status, or other circumstances. Paragraph 13 states that everyone has the right to the protection of the state and the law. Paragraph 14 states that ensuring rights and freedoms is the responsibility of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and local authorities. According to paragraph 15, everyone has the right to apply to the courts in the event of violation of their rights and freedoms. Everyone has Estonian citizens, foreign citizens and stateless persons present in Estonia. The famous Italian constitutiveist Piero Calamandrei has said that the Constitution is not a perpetuation of a mob that moves forward once launched, but the Constitution is like a piece of paper: if you let it fall, it will fall down and it will not move. In order for the Constitution to move, fuel must be added every day, commitment must be added, soul must be added, promises must be kept, and there must be a desire to keep promises and feel their own responsibility. Our constitution is, in the same way, a reality in only one part; in the other part, it is a programme that has been written down and which we must comply with. It is an ideal, a hope and a duty to keep working. What we're doing today is work. This bill gives fuel to our beautiful constitution. We say that a person has the right to legal aid, regardless of his or her mother tongue. Whether he or she is an Estonian citizen, a foreign national or a stateless person, he or she is entitled to the protection of the law, because we at least want to be a state of law. This bill does not change the language of the hearing, but gives the right to apply for legal aid in other languages as well. We're showing you that we're not arrogant. We show that we remember how bad it was to live in a country where your language was always under attack and you never knew whether you could speak your language or not, where the law was not always available to you in your own language. Now we have our own country, we have a free country, and we can do better. Are we gonna do this? Today, with this bill, we show that we are better. We remember our manifesto of independence, which states that Estonia was created for all the peoples of Estonia, not created a country where the interests of one nation always prevail over the interests of other nations. It was the principle of another country, the flag of that country had a swastika. A country like this, I hope, none of us want back. Estonia is a country where everyone has rights. The Estonian state is founded on rights and freedoms. Today we will make these rights and freedoms real. We acknowledge that a third of our citizens' mother tongue is Russian, that is just the case. They are just as citizens as those whose native language is Estonian, Swedish, Italian, Latvian, Finnish or any other language. But we don't think they're worse than that. It expresses our size. Estonia may be small in population and territory, but Estonians can be large in spirit. Today we are great in spirit. Today we're going to make a better country than we've ever been in this territory. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U261	Thank you. Next up, Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U262	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If you don't mind, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U263	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U264	I'll start with the Russian word. Legally and technically, what is in front of you is what is here in Russian, saying 'haltuura', in other words it is sloppyly, overfooted, random work, so bad that there is no word in Estonian about it. I quote Anatoly Lukyanov, member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. It was the case that the independence of Estonia was supported by Russian nationalists in the Supreme Council and when they were in poor hands, it was Estonians, Latvians and Lithuanians who saved the Mež regionalka. Then said Anatoly Ivanovich Lukjanov: "Look, comrades, you have misunderstood. Proletary internationalism is not a friendship between nationalists from different countries. ' There have been difficult times in Fatherland since Laar. Who doesn't, doesn't they? Death was in sight, Res Publica saved, and so on. They've had bad times. But also for the Fatherland, I mean the organization in difficult times, for example, I, as a Russian, have always known that no matter how badly it goes in the elections in the Fatherland and how bad the times are in their hands, are even here in the corner of the hall, even there, in the three-fourth ping-row or somewhere else people who hold the national treasures of Estonia. By protecting Estonian Russians, who are not always easy, I have always known that it is good for me to protect them, because the Estonian state is not going anywhere. There is a Fatherland or Fatherland Union and there are all these fine boys, and the Estonian state remains as Estonia. But what do we see today? The torch of nationality has fallen, the IRL no longer carries any national ideas. You don't have to cry. This simply means that all the nationalists of Estonia, Russia, Estonia, Jewish, German and all the nationalists in Estonia must lift up this torch. If we all respect our nation, then we also respect other nations. A Russian cannot be respected by an Estonian who does not respect himself. A Russian who has changed... There was talk of a swastika. By the way, the Russians also fought under the hooker, let's not forget this, Galician Division, my dear, Galician... If instead there is a sickle and a hammer that does not symbolize work, plowing or the field, but an ideological system, that is, maybe there is a country here, but it is not Estonia. If, now, the Minister of Justice is coming to open up a legal path to bilingualism, with a pretext that is overfoot and very quickly, and with a fictitious pretext, there will be doubts as to what is behind it. If this story were to come to Oudekk or Heimar or so, then we're old friends, I would know, and, well, what do we have so much... I guess, Heimar, I can't surprise you, just like you can't surprise me. That's what makes us good friends and acquaintances. Yeah, sure. But if it comes from there, then, you know, you should startle it, just like me, because something's happened in there. I'll come back to that again. Nationalism, the nationalism of good people, it's never against anyone, it's always on someone's side. But it has to be there for that. I beg no one to read out of here what I didn't mean to say. By the way, a third of my constituents and such a hard third are Russians. I have not denied my nationality. Yes, the Russians say I am not Russian, it has happened, but the Estonians have never said anything like this. So don't give me bad ideas that I don't have, honestly. But let us remember: the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Estonia took a step towards making something very, very important disappear from the Estonian nation state. It is up to us, the rest of us non-ies, to preserve nationalism for all nations living in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U265	Thank you. Next up, Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U266	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today, during the composition of this Riigikogu, the day when emotions have risen to the highest level in this Chamber. You know, it's indescribably exciting. We have heard today in this debate a mixed text about legal nuances; we have heard indescribably literary and emotional expressions about starving children. As expected, I heard the Estonian Constitution with a proletarian pathos just a moment ago. The speech of a good colleague, Oudekki, recalled one of these historic stages when he could not speak his language, etc., everything was very bad. But a good colleague made a little mistake. It all happened, not under the swastika, but under another flag. I quote, '19. On 31 December 1978, the Office of the Central Committee of the ECB (including Karl Vaino, Arnold Rüütel...) adopted a secret decision on further improving the acquisition and teaching of Russian, which declared the main request of the Communist Party to restrict the public use of the Estonian language and the bilingualism of Estonians. The Russian language became document forms in trade, transport, medical facilities... ' I don't think it makes any sense for me to finish reading it, all of you know it. Come on, let's call things the right names! We all understand, the opposition understands, and the coalition itself realises that this is a catch-up to the Russian-speaking electracy in the run-up to the local elections. We all understand that, but we're playing a show about some kind of legal aid. You know, I've learned to be a theatre director. One of the main tasks of the director is to be in the hall and watch an actor on stage. When an actor's state or activity on stage becomes unconvincing, you have to say, "Stop, don't believe! Let's take it back! ' Today, when I listened to my colleague Kariladi, I wanted to shout, 'Stop, I don't believe! Let's take it back! ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U267	Thank you. Kalle Laane next, please! The speeches will come when the speeches have been made. [[Interjection.]] Let's give the word to Oudekki Loone, please! I apologise to my colleague, Kalle Laanet.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U268	Thank you. Since my name was named, I have the right to say the line. Dear colleague Madis! I listened to you condemn the state power which, by authoritarian means, imposed Russian on the Estonians. I understand you strongly condemned it. How, then, does the state that we rule run exactly the same policy? It's horrible! We should not allow this, and that is exactly what we want to do today. We have to show that we're better. I would very much like to congratulate our coalition partner, the IRL, who has realised that Estonia is a homeland for all the people who live here, no matter what language they speak at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U269	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U270	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will continue with what the previous speaker has just finished. But I think we're still breaking through the open door. I'll give you an example. If the door Deniss Borodich is standing on was accidentally locked and the side doors open, instead of coming in through the side door, the door that is currently locked will be broken. But the funny thing is, yes, there isn't a single example of missing or missing aid. I brought along an executive edition of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. I quote this: 'Paragraph 6 paragraph 3.1: 'The Estonian language is the language of the exercise of public power in Estonia, so the official language of Estonia. This is also the definition of the official language of § 5 of the Constitution in 1934, the second sentence of which stated: 'The state language is to be understood as the language of the administration of offices. " The Supreme Court has emphasised that one of the conditions for the functioning of Estonia as a democratic republic under § 1 is that persons exercising power fully understand what is happening in Estonia and use a single system of signs in their dealings. ' I do not want to quote this thick book to you very thoroughly here, but paragraph 3.2 says once again that every society needs to communicate and social unity between members of society for normal functioning, which is possible only through a common language. I have been chosen and I live, yes, in a large part of the Estonian environment, but I have never had any problem communicating in Russian in the eastern part of Estonia and going to the west in English or Finnish. What's the problem we're solving? Let's try to define it. That's not really a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U271	Thank you. Next up, Ants Laaneots.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U272	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian people have already survived two processes of Russification in the Tsar Age and these processes have unfortunately continued during the Soviet times. When during the Tsar's time schooling was transferred to Russian, Russian was an official language, the exact same picture was in the Soviet Union. To some extent, of course, the 'rich off' of Estonia's independence in the 1918-1940s, but all this came back to the agenda after we were united with the Soviet Union. The 22nd Congress of the NLKP held in 1961 was very interesting in that the Secretary General Nikita Khrushchev announced by introducing the party's new programme (in literal translation) that the Soviet Union had developed the historical unity of different nationalities with similar characteristic features, i.e. the Soviet people. The Congress has tasked with taking this great process of blending nations to a new level, extending and deepening it. All this went very well during the Soviet Union: I have spent half my life outside the borders of Estonia, and I was deported in 1949. Small people were deliberately disturbed. The aim was to develop a common language of the Soviet people, which was meant for Russian. The process was successful. By the end of the Soviet Union, the situation was that quite a large number of small nations had disappeared from the map. We can ask today where the Karelians, the Ingers, the Maris, the Comets, etc. are. While 92% of Estonians were Estonians in 1940, Estonians in Estonia were just over 60% in the final days of the Soviet Union. The share of Estonians has increased by now, with 69% of Estonians reported in 2011. What's our problem, why are we here so bloody fighting the Russians, let's say so? Estonians are few. According to the latest data, there's only about 930,000 of them. It is understandable that if the language of a large nation is brought here, there is a risk that the Estonian language will disappear and, together with the language, the people will disappear. It must be said honestly and frankly that one of the immediate objectives of Russian self-governance Vladimir Putin is to restore the Russian Empire, or control over the space of the post-Soviet councils. This is the easiest thing to do, in particular, with the so-called hybrid war measures, the most important part of which is psychological influence, i.e. psychological zombies. Russia is following its new doctrine very closely and actively. Propaganda activities in the former republics of the Soviet Union, as well as in the wider world, have been significantly strengthened. What do our pro-Russian colleagues from the Centre Party want? Basically crawling into Russian expansion. The final objective is the same as what Mr Khrushchev wanted and what Mr Putin wanted. This is also the reason why the Centre Party does not wish or in any way opt out of the cooperation protocol with the United Russia. We here in Estonia have been fighting for ourselves, for language and for culture for centuries, and we will continue to fight, in any case. It seems that the people who support the policy of the neighbouring country in this hall have also been activated, whether or not helping to extend the imperialist policy of the great nation to the territory of Estonia. That is why I, too, am opposed to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U273	Would the waitress like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U274	No, thank you! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The time has already passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U275	Thank you. Next up, Raivo Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U276	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber! I've been watching this debate with interest. I've been sitting here in my place all along. It has been a pleasure to hear how some draft law, its procedure and its objectives are understood. The IRL has received a great deal of attention here today. This will certainly be of benefit to us, for any attention is always positive, no matter which way they try to point it out. But I still dare say that the IRL has stood very clearly for its values and stands on. These are conservative values, whether it is a conservative family policy or a continuation of a conservative language policy. I am very sorry about our colleagues in the Reform Party in this respect. As soon as they had to leave the coalition opposition, they momentarily lost their reading skills. I'm so sorry about that. But I hope that if emotions subside and calm down over time, that skill will still come back. I think that since the Christmas season has already passed several advents, it would not be polite or good to have hate speeches on this scale in this House of People's Representation. In fact, we have heard a lot of hate speech here today. But now a little bit of the substance of the bill. We heard the bottomless accusations and curses here that a new official language is about to appear next to the Estonian language. I do not know, in any case, we in the IRL Group have not discussed such a draft or a proposal to come up and change the language law. The next thing we heard here is that the judges now have to become all Russian, they have to start holding hearings in Russian. It's not like that! Read the law! The draft simply gives the opportunity to fill out one form in a language other than Estonian. This can be done in Russian, but it can also be done in other languages, for example in Ukrainian. If the court or anyone else who is going to process this form thinks that there are a sufficient number of residents in Estonia who speak Ukrainian, the form filled in in in Ukrainian will also be accepted and translated, but all other legal proceedings will proceed in Estonian according to the law. It must also be borne in mind that this amendment applies only to civil and administrative courts. After all, it is precisely the rules that we now come to in administrative and civil proceedings: people have a translation, there are judicial interpreters, and so on. The other documentation will continue to be in Estonian and will remain in Estonian. This unfortunate application form, which has given rise to so much controversy and foam here today, will become Estonian, with the Russian original document accompanied by an Estonian translation, so that the judges, who do not speak this other language, but only Estonian, will have no difficulty in processing this document and organising a further trial. I do think that the Estonian state will not become a much worse place to live because of this bill. It will continue to be as good a country as it has been so far. However, people who live in Estonia and whose native language is not Estonian, which is why they have had difficulty completing one form, can apply for help from the state in civil and administrative matters. Thank you and the strength for all of us to go on!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U277	Thank you. Now it is my great honor to ask for a chair of speech, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U278	Good luck, manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's a rare case that I'm coming here, but the debate was that I had to come here. I am very sorry that there has been the least talk in the framework of Bill 299, or almost no talk of legal aid. That's what I wanted to say first. Secondly, I can't do it any other way, I have to express emotion! As a person who has listened to speeches here for a long time, I can say that so much sincere concern about a political party and condolences to him have never been laid out before. Really, really! That amount was terrible. But finally, if you'll excuse the old man, my head is already gray, I'd like to reassure you: believe me, Estonia is free!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U279	Thank you. Maire Aunaste next.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U280	Let me put it this way: I don't think I've ever been embarrassed in front of so many people at once. Usually they're still blaming me in the back, but now I just got in this hall at the wrong time, all my colleagues had left in time. But it would be very primitive if I were to justify myself and the IRL right now. I am absolutely sure that nothing has changed in the worldview and principles of these people in the last month. I'm just saying at the end of this sentence, come and help God, what they do to keep in power! But I came here to be original. As a former journalist, I am most afraid to repeat myself. Once four hours have been spoken, it is very difficult to find a topic that has not been mentioned. It was very funny how the members of one party spoke for several hours that they felt sorry for another party, but then Raivo came here and said that he felt sorry for that first party again. You see, this pity doesn't really make the world a better place. I just happened to drive to Sillamäe last week. Not the city's choice was random, but the accident was that I didn't take this ride not after, but before today. I used to go to Sillamäe once when I was a teenager, but I didn't remember anything about it, it was just some class trip to a closed town. I've been thinking for months what I'm going to do since February 2019, because this experiment that I came here to do with myself will be over. Although I am the oldest in my group, I am still thinking about the future. That's why I drove to Sillamäe. And what did I see there? Quiet, beautiful, peaceful city. I couldn't find any people who could understand the Estonian language. At the diner, I asked the bartender if he recommended a pig or a chicken. He didn't understand. But I didn't blame him. I crossed over to Russian and asked how they had had a situation there, whether someone was teaching Estonian there. He said yes, those who teach, there would be, but those who learn are not. I asked who these teachers were. He said it was still our own Russians. But I drove to Sillamäe with one goal: in two years' time, I will move to Sillamäe to teach the Russians Estonian. I am absolutely certain that if I could teach a hundred Russians the Estonian language, I have done more than I have here in four years. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U281	Thank you. A procedural question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U282	I understand that we are now approaching this moment when we are going to vote here on this soperd, along with amendments which are even worse. But the scariest thing about it is that this gym is no longer available in written form from the shelves at the back of the hall. Is it possible to get it? The Estonian option would, of course, be preferred, but if there are any leftovers in Russian, bring it to the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U283	A very well-founded procedural question. We ask you to immediately reproduce the text of the second reading of Bill 299. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U284	Thank you, Mr President. I had one question, but since you've already made a decision, I have another question. This soperdis, what term is that? How did you realise that this was a respectable draft law of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U285	Thank you for that question. I can assure you that I understood very well that a reference was made to bill 299. Please, a procedural question, Mr Sults!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U286	Thank you. My main location is North Tallinn and Kopli. How did you understand what a member of the Riigikogu and a MP asked of you when he used the word'soperdis' and said such things? The law called him a "sopper." How did you know it was Randpere?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U287	Thank you. I understood from the fact that he said that now we are getting closer to the moment we are voting here. Since we are going to vote through the 299 amendments to the draft, I am quite sure that Mr Randpere referred specifically to this draft. Once again, the procedural question, Mr Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U288	Thank you, Mr President. Does the current precedent mean that any person in this hall may refer to any reform party or specifically respected Mr Randpere as a draft law or any other document he has drawn up as a soperdid and that there will be no consequence? Is that allowed now, that's the official term now, and we're going to use it in this room?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U289	Thank you. I believe you agree with me that the Head of the Riigikogu has quite a few opportunities to censor the speeches of the members of the Riigikogu. I believe that if today could have censored the speeches, many of them would have been quite beepy. Each member of the Riigikogu chooses the words and terms he uses about the drafts, and this is a colleague's assessment that it is a bad draft. I'm sure you'll understand why he's in that position. I believe that everyone understood which bill we were talking about, and it was therefore possible to resolve the procedural issue. Hanno Pevkur, speaking from the floor? If you want to ask a procedural question, you have to give a hand. Please, Hanno Pevkur, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U290	Thank you. Quick procedural question. Mr Randpere referred to the lack of material. Is it perhaps correct to take the chairman's break so that we can reproduce these materials so that we can proceed with the sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U291	I've been given confirmation that these materials have arrived in the hall. Please check whether anyone who wishes to receive these materials really gets them! If the materials are missing, we'll find a way to make more. Please, Henn Põllaas, do you have a procedural question? In this case, please give a hand signal, as it pleases! Please, a procedural question, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U292	Thank you. Why do my colleagues from the Centre Party already call this bill, which a good colleague called a "soperd" - which I completely agree with - a law? It's a bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U293	Thank you. You are right that this is a bill that we are dealing with at second reading. We are in the final phase of the negotiations. Once we have concluded the negotiations, it will be possible to start examining the amendments and then there will be the third reading of the draft. If, at third reading, the draft finds the majority of the Riigikogu's support, then it becomes a law. Next up, Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U294	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. My procedural question is, in this context, that it is sad when the Group of the Prime Minister's Party fails to understand what a word in Estonian means. It is therefore understandable why this bill is being pushed through: it is difficult to understand the Estonian language. I can translate. According to the lyrics dictionary,'soperdis' is equal to 'plätserdu', which means a poor picture. When we look at this bill, we really see that it is a poor picture, a euphemism. So Mr Randpere's word on this was absolutely correct. No member of the Riigikogu has the right to comment or disparage the use of the word of another member of the Riigikogu or to comment on it. Every member of the Riigikogu has a free mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U295	Thank you. I followed your speech very closely, but I did not see the question there. Let us now go to the procedural question. Mr Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U296	Since there's been a little discussion of my use of words here, I'll explain a little bit. Throughout this four-hour debate, all kinds of expressions have been used on this draft, including 'bad lawmaking model', etc. I will then raise the question that perhaps we will agree in the Riigikogu that, in the future, when we come here with drafts that have been voted out at the table and with a large amount of alcohol, we will call them soperdis. That is exactly what happened yesterday when the Minister of Justice offered us food and drink, and the amendments were voted into this draft, calling it the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U297	Thank you for that explanation. I have to admit, there is news to me from your statement that this bill was created during the booze. But I understand that you did not have a question for the President so that we can call the negotiations closed. I declare the negotiations closed and we will go to the examination of the amendments. Three amendments have been tabled to the draft. The first is from the Committee on Legal Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U298	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this proposal, which I understand so much, has been supported in the dining and drinking table, to vote and I recommend not to support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U299	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 36 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U300	This is a less important amendment than the first one, because with the first amendment we learned that it is now possible to submit an application in Russian. But since these proposals are in the package, we could also vote on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U301	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. There are 55 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 37 against no one has abstained. The amendment was supported. The third amendment has once again been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. This amendment is not recommended to be voted on. We have received a proposal from the Free Party Group, the Conservative People's Party Group and the Reform Party Group to interrupt the second reading of this bill. I shall put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal from the three groups to be suspended. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 55 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported and the second reading of the draft has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U302	Today's ninth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (transposition of the freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of crime). On behalf of the commission, I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair's member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Raivo Aegis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U303	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you of what this is about: the draft will transpose the directive on the freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of crime and, moreover, the procedures relating to evidence, seized property and findings will be organised. At its meeting, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed 308 draft laws submitted by the Government of the Republic for the first time on 8 November, including at first reading on 23 November. The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft law was set at 4 p.m. on 2 December. By the deadline laid down, amendments were received by the Legal Affairs Committee from the Ministry of Justice and the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators. The Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with the amendments received at its meeting on 5 December. I will now give more details on the amendments. A total of five points were received from the Ministry of Justice. Amendment 1 relates to the amendment of the Penal Code. Paragraph 1 of the draft law amending the Law on penalties is supplemented by point 17 and the numbering of the following points is also changed. The new point 17 refers to the text of the draft text as follows: '§ 184 (5) (2), 185 (4) (2), 255 (2) (2), 256 (2) (2), 268 (2) (2), 414 (5) (2) and 415 (3) (2) of the Code are replaced by 'the court may apply'; What's the point? This is precisely because the amendment removes the mismatch between the provisions of §832 (1) of the Penal Code and the provisions of the Special Part of the Penal Code. Pursuant to § 832 (1) of the Penal Code, the obligation to confiscate has been extended to a discretionary decision ('... the court... '). On the other hand, the provisions of the special section laying down the possibility of extended confiscation are worded in a compulsory form, i.e. imperatively ('the Court applies...'). This amendment will eliminate this contradiction and create a situation where discretion is left to the court to decide on the matter. Amendment 2 concerns the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and reads as follows: The current text of § 3 of the draft law is considered to be paragraph 1 and the paragraph is supplemented by paragraphs 2 to 5. Paragraph 2 reads as follows: 'paragraph 2071 (1) and subsection 2104 (1) replace the word 'prefecture' with 'criminal care department'. ' Item 3: 'paragraph 2071 (2) and subsections 2104 (2) and (3) 'prefect' is replaced by 'Head of the Criminal Care Department'. ' Item 4: 'in paragraph 2101, § 2102 and § 2103 the words 'Police and Border Guard Board' are replaced by 'criminal care officer'. ' Point 5: 'Chapter 18 of the Code is supplemented by § 2123 as follows: '§ 2123. Transfer of community service. A court judgment or order enforceable until 1 January 2017 on the punishment of the accused with community service which has not been completed or partially completed shall be transmitted to the probation department within 30 days from 1 January 2017 until 30 January 2017. '' What is the purpose or content of this amendment? Under the current rules, the public service of the guilty is organised by two agencies: the Police and Border Guard Board and the probation department attached to the prisons. The difference is that the Police and Border Guard Board applies community service to those who have been convicted of misdemeanours, while the probation department applies it to those who have been convicted of criminal offences. The draft stipulates that the organisation of community service for misdemeanours will also be transferred to the Ministry of Justice's administration, probation departments. Amendment 3: 'Replace the word 'January' in § 4 (2) of the draft with the word 'February'. "In accordance with § 4 (2) of the draft law, § 102 (7) of the State Assets Act is added, which states that assets confiscated before 1 January 2017 are subject to the provisions of the law in force at the time of confiscation. This provision is necessary in order to allow for further processing of property already seized by rural governments at the time of the entry into force of the legislative amendment and for which the procedure has not been completed. According to the draft law, the assets to be dealt with by the county governments will not be transferred to the Police and Border Guard Board or the Tax and Customs Board, but will be executed by the institution to which they have been transferred according to the law in force. Amendment 4 complements the draft with § 7 'amendment of the Criminal Care Act', which supplements § 2 (6) of the Penal Care Act with the following wording: 'guilty whose arrest has been replaced by community service. ' Since the bill, as we have heard before, proposes that the organisation of community service applied for misdemeanour be taken over by the probation departments, the perpetrators who have been punished in misdemeanour proceedings will also be under the supervision of the probation officers. As § 2 of the Penal Care Act lists everyone who is in contact with the probation officers, those responsible who have been replaced by community service, or who have been punished by a misdemeanour procedure, must also be added to the list. Amendment 5: 'Reform and formulate § 8 (former § 7) as follows: § 8. Entry into force of the law. (1) Paragraphs 2 (3) to (5) and 15 of this Act, § 3 (1) and 4 to (6) of this Act shall enter into force on 1 February 2017. (2) Paragraph 3 (2) (5) and Article 7 of this Act shall enter into force on the day following their publication in the Official Journal of the State. ' The content of the amendment is as follows: The first point is necessary in order to ensure that the transfer of seized property, findings and evidence can be carried out smoothly and without problems between the Police and Border Guard Board, the Tax and Customs Board and the county authorities. Since the adoption of the law has shifted so far to the end of the year, the entry into force of the law on 1 January would be problematic and it is therefore proposed to extend this deadline for a month. Point 2 of the amendment is necessary for the Police and Border Guard Board to be able to hand over the organisation of community service to the Ministry of Justice as soon as possible, as these resources are already foreseen by the state budget for the Ministry of Justice in the 2017 budget. It would therefore be useful and necessary to transfer to them the right under the law to organise community service for those who have been convicted of misdemeanour. The Steering Committee has proposed that all of these five amendments be fully taken into account; these proposals have been supported by consensus. As I pointed out earlier, in addition to the Ministry of Justice's proposal, the Committee on Legal Affairs received a proposal from the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators. This was that instead of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Tax and Customs Board, who took over the affairs of the county authorities regarding the realisation of evidence, confiscated property and findings, they could be dealt with by bailiffs. As we know, we have only recently dealt with bill No 280, the subject of which was that the so-called expected profits of bailiffs could be significantly reduced, because the prescribed state fees have decreased and the fullers will no longer receive as much revenue as before. The Commission had a brief discussion on this subject, but it was decided that it would be reasonable to deal with this possible referral to bailiffs together with this bill 280. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal of the Law Enforcement Tribunals and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators was not supported. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 14 December 2016 and that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed, by 15 December 2016 and put to the final vote. The fifth point in the decision was that Raivo Time was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U304	Thank you, dear waitress. Any questions? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. We will go to the examination of the amendments. Five amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them together. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The second amendment is tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The third amendment is tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The fourth amendment is once again tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 308. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U305	Today's 10th item is the continuation of the second reading of the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Act amending other laws 302. I would like to ask Mr Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, for a presentation by the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U306	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of the draft was on the agenda on 7 December, a week ago. The second reading was suspended on a proposal from the Commission and the deadline for amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 9 December. Now I am talking about what the Commission has done during this week. Aivar Sõerd, member of the Riigikogu, the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Free Party submitted proposals within the deadline for amendments. At the meeting of the Monetary Commission on 12 December, the Estonian Free Party withdrew part of the amendments. Here I must make it clear that, first of all, there is a draft 327 of the Estonian Free Party faction in the proceedings before the Riigikogu, according to which the planned increase in VAT on accommodation services in 2017 would be cancelled. There is also an amendment to Bill 302 with the same objective. The Committee on Monetary Affairs would have liked to have combined the draft Free Party with the draft we are discussing today, of course, if the Free Party had agreed to it. However, this could not be done because Bill 327 has not yet passed the first reading. However, you can only connect on this condition. In addition, the Estonian Free Party Group withdrew five amendments to the tax changes related to the registration of cars at its meeting on 12 December. The representative of the political group explained that, as these proposals have been fully taken into account, the Commission has excluded all these amendments to the State Fees Act from the draft and that there is no need to draw attention to this issue in plenary, it will withdraw these proposals. The same group also withdrew two amendments whose need for amendment by the Commission fell due to 142. In particular, the Commission decided that the tax credit for health promotion would be enforced indefinitely and that the requirement to provide a fixed-term analysis would be waived. Preparatory meetings for the second reading of the bill took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 8, 12 and 13 December. In addition to the ordinary meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, an extraordinary meeting was held on 12 December, with representatives of stakeholders invited to take part. The circle of topics was next. The first issue concerned the accelerated procedure for amendments to the Tax Code. The main participants in this debate were the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Association of Estonian Beer Producers took the floor on raising the excise duty rate for beer and, after that, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Estonian Gas Association, the Estonian Printing and Packaging Industry Association, Estonian Cell and the Estonian Food Industry Association spoke about the increase in the excise rate of natural gas. Last but not least, the fourth issue was increasing the rate of excise duty on heavy fuel oil. This topic was taken up by United Oil OÜ. The Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises took part in this meeting and expressed its opinion. Everything that happened at this meeting is quite thoroughly reflected in the explanatory memorandum that you can get from the shelf at the back of the hall any time. I will not question your reading skills, as was the case here when we discussed the previous issue. So if you want, you can get to know it. But let us now go to the amendments. Amendments 1, 3, 4, 7 and 133 have been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The aim is to gradually increase the income tax rate, which would cover an increase in the tax-free minimum so that slightly more than 80% of workers would receive higher incomes. Amendments 2, 129, 151 and 157 are tabled by the Reform Party Group. In presenting these proposals, the representative of the group explained that the provisions to be deleted pursuant to these amendments could not be supported, inter alia, because they had not been drawn up in accordance with the good practice of proceeding with the draft. In particular, stakeholders have not been involved and impact assessments have not been carried out. I am taking this opportunity to say that the impact analysis we received from the Ministry of Finance is in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, starting on page 8. Amendments 5 and 6 have been tabled by Mr Aivar Sõerd, member of the Riigikogu. In Amendment 5, the author explains that since dividends in Estonia are not subject to income tax at the level of an individual, it is not justified to double taxation of such dividends by means of a tax-free minimum. Amendment 6 provides that the refinancing of tax-free income could take place with a step of EUR 2 instead of the EUR 1.8 proposed in the draft. The representative of the initiator explained that EUR 1,8 was due to the need to bring tax-free income to zero at a level of EUR 2100 per month. Amendment 8 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It aims to amend Paragraph 231 (1) of the Income Tax Act and delete the reference to the Family Act in order to allow the use of additional tax-free income for any person who is factually dependent on the child. Amendments 9 to 128 have been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The content of these proposals is to increase the amount of an additional tax-free pension of EUR 2700 provided for in § 232 of the Income Tax Act by EUR 1 in each proposal. Amendments 130 and 131 are tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The objective of the proposal 130 is to maintain the right to deduct, in full or in part, the interest of the parent who has taken parental leave during the tax period, who is raising the child alone. Proposal 131 recommends that no change should be made to the reduction of the marginal interest rate on housing loans from EUR 1200 to EUR 300. Amendments 132 and 134 are proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Proposal 132 allows spouses who use the collective property regime to jointly account for certain costs and deductions when declaring income. According to the supplement, spouses can count jointly on the additional tax-free income for child maintenance, the training costs paid during the tax period and the interest on the mortgage. Tax-free income cannot be transferred to another spouse, and this also applies to charitable donations and voluntary pension insurance contributions. Amendment 134 allows for more flexible account to be taken of tax-free payments of uneven amounts. Amendment 135 is tabled by the EKRE Group and consists of the submission of a joint income tax return by the spouses. The 136th amendment, tabled by Aivar Sõerd, a member of the Riigikogu, is identical to Amendment 137 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Both aim to remove from the draft the amendment to Paragraph 44 (2) of the Income Tax Act, which repeals the possibility of submitting a joint income tax return for spouses. Amendments 138 and 139 of the Estonian Free Party are motivated by the same objective. Amendments 140, 141, 142, 143 and 145 concern the regulation relating to expenditure on health promotion. According to Amendment 141 of the Committee on Finance, the employer will continue to be entitled to benefit from tax-free private health insurance. This proposal has also been supported by the Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Trade Union Confederation in their opinions to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The tax relief foreseen for health promotion will be put into effect for an unlimited period and the obligation to provide a fixed-term analysis will be waived. Specifically on this subject is Amendment 142. Similar changes were proposed in the proposals 140, 143 and 145 submitted by the Estonian Free Party Group, which were supported, in part or in substance, by the Commission. Amendments 146, 147 and 148 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party provide for the introduction of a social tax ceiling. The representative of the initiator of the draft act explained that Latvia's experience shows that the introduction of a social tax ceiling does not contribute to the creation of high-paid jobs. At the same time, it is a very expensive measure. Amendment 149 is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which aims not to give up the reduction of the social tax rate and to provide for a reduction of the social tax rate to 30% by 2019 in the Social Tax Act. This rate would then fall by half a percentage point in 2017, by one and a half in 2018 and by another one percentage point in 2019. Amendment 152 is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and aims to remove all provisions concerning the rate of excise duty on natural gas from the draft. By amendment 153, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to delete § 8 from the draft, which provided for the amendment of the state fee for the registration of the vehicle or for the change of the owner of the vehicle. Amendment 154 relates to draft 301 pending before the Riigikogu, which passed the third reading on 14 December and cannot be changed again. Its formulation has taken into account the reduction of the social tax rate by one per cent since 2018. As Bill 302 seeks to cancel the reduction of social security contributions, this implies the need to amend Bill 301 amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Tax Act. By Amendment 156, the Group of the Estonian Free Party wishes to postpone the withdrawal of social tax by half a year. The Finance Committee asked the Ministry of Finance to provide an impact analysis based on changes to the text of the draft at second reading. The impact analyses of the fiscal policy amendments submitted to the Committee on Monetary Affairs are annexed to this explanatory memorandum. At its meeting on 13 December 2016, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U307	Thanks to the waitress! You have questions too. First Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U308	Thank you. Good waitress! However, the content and procedure of this draft have not improved significantly during the week, and we will certainly signal in today's sitting that this is not the right thing for us to do. Business organisations have also said that this involvement, which seems to have taken place this week, was apparent, not substantive. I am also not quite sure that these amendments reached the members of the Riigikogu at the right time. But that's it. My question concerns collective declaration; there is a lot of confusion about it. You have postponed the car tax under pressure from the opposition and the public, and this is certainly good news for the people of Estonia, but what about the joint declarations? Are they staying? If so, what volume and do people even know how they will declare their interests next year? So far, it was easy, and the future will certainly be much more complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U309	Thank you for your question. In this hall it is still so that one side fits, the other is not suitable, and sometimes what fits and does not fit changes quite quickly. With regard to the joint declarations, I have nothing to add to what I have already said. They remain, and there will be no additional difficulties for humans.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U310	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U311	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good luck with your new job. Good chairman of the committee! A week ago, I tried to make it clear that, in addition to economic analysis, we could also have an analysis of the legal impact. I referred to the problem of joint declarations, you've got a little hit on that. But let me give you an example here. The interest limit on housing loans is intended to be reduced from EUR 1200 to EUR 300, which is a very big change. Have you turned to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu to assess whether or not the principle of legal expectation is being violated? Could it be some kind of problem, such as litigation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U312	Thank you. Maybe someone's approached the Legal and Analytical Department. As far as I know, no one else from the Commission has turned. All the analyses concerning this draft law are included in the explanatory memorandum, with the exception of one analysis concerning alcohol and alcohol policy. It was only received today after the documents had already been finalised for the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U313	Deniss Borodich next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U314	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good colleague! The most important promise of the new coalition is to bring the Estonian economy out of stagnation, i.e. to contribute to the development of economic growth. I am sure you yourself have also stressed that, in this sense, the development of industry, which is by its very nature very energy-intensive, is very important. Don't you think that with a very steep increase in gas excise duty of 25% each year you will not be stepping up, but will be slowing down the development of the Estonian industrial sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U315	Thank you. I have something to say about that. I know that there is dialogue on gas between Estonia and the European Commission. However, this issue was not discussed at the Commission's meeting and, as a Commission rapporteur, I would not like to develop this issue here. For my part, I will just say that economic growth is in the government's programme for the first hundred days and beyond, and that it is perhaps where the economy becomes a force for development. But that's a whole other subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U316	Thank you, good manager. Good speaker! You have Amendment 2, which actually contains three proposals. There is the impression that, in addition to having a cluster bill, there are also cluster amendments. Indeed, this draft has become famous for its poor preparation and, as far as I understand, this amendment seeks very different things. It seems to me that members of the Riigikogu may be in very different positions on different points, such as excise duty or VAT on hotels. Why did you put them together for one suggestion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U317	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U318	Thank you for a very good question. This amendment has been tabled by the Reform Party. That is, first of all, and so this is a question for you. And secondly, it's pretty common practice. Those who propose amendments have such a right. In any case, I do not question the right of the Reform Party Group to table such an amendment. But for your comfort, it's been ignored.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U319	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U320	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. I am not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, so I do not have precise information on whether the socio-economic impact of all these increases in excise duty is present. You mentioned that an analysis of the socio-economic impact of the increase in alcohol duty has just arrived. I suppose they do exist. Please answer if they exist first. Secondly, what does this socio-economic impact analysis say about the increase in alcohol duty? Does this result in an immediate improvement in public health?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U321	Thank you. My parliamentary experience is that there is never enough analysis. Even if the Commission tried to satisfy all wishes and tried to obtain all the analyses, there could be no certainty that no one would demand another. So it is not possible to achieve an absolutely good result in this matter. As far as alcohol is concerned, I said at the beginning that this analysis was received by the Riigikogu when I was sitting in this Chamber and following the discussions that were on our agenda. I haven't seen it. I'm sure I'll watch it, we've got a long and interesting night ahead of us, we'll make it a lot. And I'm asking you to make a copy for you. But there's only one thing I can say about alcohol. I don't really understand how these tests are being performed. I remember that the World Health Organisation thinks we have good results. We are said to have reduced our consumption of pure alcohol by almost a third over the last five to six years: an average of 12.3 liters per person per year, now I think it is 8.4 liters. But the OECD, for example, offers a completely different figure. According to their data, alcohol consumption in Estonia is stationary, i.e. half a litre is moving to one side, then half a litre to the other side, between 11 and 12.2 litres per year. We need a clear anti-alcohol policy, of course, but what this analysis is about, I really can't tell you right now. We make a copy, we give it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U322	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U323	Good waitress! You did make one appeal, though. As Head of the Finance Committee, you referred to the Social Affairs Committee on the question of § 7 of the Family Benefits Act, whether the family benefits it contains are justified and acceptable. You probably assumed that the Social Affairs Committee would have to respond like a bunch of chickens, that yes-yes. But here's my question. The Minister of Finance said here before that if there is free money in the budget, it will be spent to alleviate the significant pains of the country. Why did you not ask the Social Affairs Committee where this additional free budget money could be put?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U324	Thank you, too. I think that the people who have worked on the current coalition agreement are sufficiently competent in terms of both finance and social protection. I have no doubt about the competence of the ministries. I have to say that I have seen the Commission's work on the one hand in recent years, and I am now seeing it from the inside. I see in Riigikogu committees an enormously high level of professionalism and a very high level of hard work. I just didn't have that much experience in the past, because the special committee didn't have work as intense as the budget and the 302 bill. So let everyone do their thing. If the Social Affairs Committee had any suggestions on this issue, it would have approached us. I don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U325	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U326	Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The draft that you are defending here is, in its substance, something that the Reform Party certainly cannot support. The bill brings the tax increase and establishes a highly chopped graduated income tax in Estonia. Moreover, there is a separate question of how this draft has been dealt with. This violates the current law as well as the guidelines of the Riigikogu's Management Board on the handling of drafts. And in addition to that, it's making a big mess. The confusion seems to be so great that you yourself have probably confused some of the amendments with their content. In particular, you answered one previous question that there would be no amendment to the joint declaration. However, Amendments 132 and 134, which have been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself, provide for these amendments. How, then, is it possible or is it not possible to transfer tax-free income to another spouse in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U327	Thank you. I did not say one word: there will be no fundamental changes. In fact, the process remains more or less the same. What the law changes doesn't matter much in principle. As far as everything you have said in the introductory part of your question is concerned, I believe that, before the end of second reading, there was enough answer to these questions and that this issue was not raised at the meetings of the Commission when it was discussed whether to proceed with the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U328	Thank you. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U329	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good chairman of the committee! I am pleased to hear that in your case, too, the principle that there is a position according to the seat is working. You also understand now that the Commission staff is still doing a good job, especially in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. Paragraph 100 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act states that the commission must allow the author of the amendment to clarify his proposal before taking a decision on it. Last time we discussed the rules of procedure in the big Chamber, you apologized to my colleague Jüri Jaanson for not being invited to present the Commission's proposal. Now that you have continued the debate in the Commission before the second reading, did Jüri Jaanson have this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U330	No, he didn't. He didn't make that request. If it had, it would have been satisfied. I have yet another sin to confess: there were quite a lot of amendments that the initiators of which were not required to explain their view of the world. These are, first and foremost, Amendments 9 to 128. It would have been strange to explain all these proposals concerning the euro. So everything happens in the Commission's work, and we have had it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. What the hell's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U331	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U332	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! No one will tell us how this bill has been dealt with today. But I don't understand one thing. When you look at the plans of the new coalition and talk about how people in Estonia are being tried to help seriously, the lowering of the interest rate on the mortgage and the joint declarations is just one thing: people who have invested in their homes and still have a family together are actually losers. At the same time, proud plans are made for public buildings and investments are supported. In my opinion, every person who knows the history of Estonia must understand that one generation has not yet been able to repay its loan in order to bequeath or facilitate the start of life in future generations. According to what logic does this coincide with family and child-friendly policies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U333	Most of the time, it does. After all, you understand that this limit of EUR 300.1200 is due to the amount of loans made. And 300 euros covers most of the needs to pay interest. We always make difficult choices in this Chamber, it is not easy to make them, but when one political force has made its decision, that decision has been made. We'll explain our policy. We still have time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U334	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U335	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Estonian Beer Producers' Association, however, we know that the Estonian Small Traders' Association is also very concerned about the impact on land trade of the increase in the excise duty rate on soft alcoholic beverages proposed in this bill. No impact analysis has been carried out. How do you think the amendment proposed in this bill will affect our land trade in smaller border settlements?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U336	Thank you. Dear Krista! This was not discussed in the Commission, and I could stop at that. But I'll answer you. I've got this weird feeling all the time. It's really hard for me to understand this problem because I don't drink beer myself. But I feel like it's a basic food product, it's like no one can live without it. It's like something that keeps our economy up and has an impact on everything. I just can't imagine if it's really the way we've gone down so much that we depend so much on alcohol that it has a decisive role to play. I don't want to believe it. And this tax credit, which will start on 1 January 2018, leaves, for example, a person living in a village somewhere with an income of 700 to 800 euros per year in his pocket. I can't imagine how much alcohol it's possible to destroy that benefit. How much do you need to drink? I did a calculation once, and it turned out to be three liters every day. And frankly, I can't imagine people like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U337	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U338	Thank you. I am forced to return to the joint declarations because your answer was not precise and exhaustive. Unfortunately, I have not been able to ask this in the Commission; unfortunately, neither has the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance had time to meet the opposition and explain it. So I'm taking this opportunity here. You say nothing changes. Yet, this very narrow explanation can be seen here that something is changing. Tax-free income, for example, can no longer be transferred and something remains. I admit it's impossible to understand this explanatory statement, but I really want to understand what's changing for a human being and what the cost to the state is. The abolition of the joint declarations was reflected in your government's Excel table as a clear source of cover for a very large number of millions. If it is changed now, where will this additional money come from? Are these dividends again, one-off revenues? What really happened between two readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U339	Thank you. Again, it's not transferable. So far, it was transferable, for example, this year there is a tax-free minimum of 170 + 170 = 340 euros, and in the future there will be 500 euros. I have already admitted that, when I was talking about it, I really did not give a very precise answer when I said that there would be no change. There will be no fundamental changes. But, by the way, as we have already mentioned, at the beginning of the second reading, this step was discussed in this Chamber as not an economic means, and this was about the importance of the family. It was said here that you would lose the joint declaration and that it would put our families at risk. The joint declaration remained, the families have been saved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U340	Now I apologize to the waitress! You can go there for a second. Honourable Riigikogu! I think it would make sense if I made the following decisions which the Constitution of the Republic and the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu prescribe to me. Namely, pursuant to § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, on a proposal from 55 members of the Riigikogu, in the event that the processing of items on the agenda of the 11th working week of the IV session of the Riigikogu is not terminated during the ordinary session, the meeting of the Chamber of Toompea Castle will be convened at 10 a.m. on 16 December 2016 at 10 a.m. of the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu. So it's this Friday. On the agenda of this extraordinary session, the agenda of the 11th working week of the IV session of the Riigikogu has been fixed, but the agenda items that have not been discussed during this working week have not been discussed. The Friday session will last until the agenda is exhausted. Also, on the basis of the same paragraphs and on the proposal of 55 members of the Riigikogu, if the extraordinary session on Friday does not reach the point where the agenda of this week will be exhausted, the next extraordinary session will meet at 10 a.m. on 17 December. In both cases, the extraordinary session shall last until the agenda is exhausted. You probably need to know that I made these decisions ten minutes ago. Thank you. Please come back to the remote! Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U341	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good colleague! I'll continue with my last question. You said that you did not discuss the impact of the increase in the rate of excise duty on natural gas in the Commission. However, when I read the draft explanatory statement, I can see that you have discussed and even invited representatives of different organisations. Eesti Gaasiit, Estonian Printing and Packaging Industry Association, Estonian Cell AS, Estonian Food Industry Association have expressed their views. All of them brought very convincing arguments as to why this increase should not be made, should not be supported. For example, they point out that, due to increased energy costs, companies lose the opportunity to invest both in the development of production and in increasing production capacity. However, the Estonian Food Unemployment Association points out that this increase in excise duty results in a huge increase in food prices. Hence my question: what were the compelling arguments when you in the Commission decided not to take these views into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U342	Thank you. Once again, there was a meeting with the stakeholders, their arguments have been fixed, and they will be taken into account. However, this issue was not raised at the meeting of the Commission on the continuation of the second reading. What you read, nobody's hiding, it's beautifully in the explanatory statement. Like I said, who knows how to read, that counts it out there. Finally, however, so much that I am not talking about gas-related organisations here, but basically, if the state raises some kind of excise duty, it has also been done during the previous government, then whoever depends on this excise duty to one degree or another cannot accept it in any way. It's very logical and natural, there's nothing to do here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U343	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U344	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My question concerns alcohol policy. The three points of § 4 of the draft law concern small brewers and these three points substantially alter the definition of small brewers. Would you be so kind as to explain the background a little bit? Why the big change?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U345	Are those the points where the switch from 3000 hl to 6000 hl? Well, that means coming back for small producers, and there is therefore a positive change. However, this issue was not on the table at the meetings of the Commission, which discussed the continuation of the second reading. It was on the table before the second reading, which was interrupted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U346	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Honourable waitresses! Arto Aas has already touched on this issue, and I think that we have a very different understanding of the joint declaration of the spouses in principle. You say that nothing basically changes, but it's not true. Yes, the declarations will be kept formally, but its most important component - the calculation of the minimum or tax-free share of the common income of spouses - will disappear. This, however, is the most important part of this declaration at all. So we are left with a declaration form that no longer makes any sense. Whether they are interest rates or training expenses, they are of no importance; they are either one or the other spouse's. The importance of common income or common income was a minimum. We proposed that this be not the EUR 500 that is now coming, but that it be at the current level. This would not entail costs for society or the state budget. Can you tell me how much the state earns by abolishing the possibility of declaring common income?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U347	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U348	Thank you. That's not the kind of calculations I've done. In the Commission, as you are well aware, this issue was not raised either. I would like to remind you once again that a week ago we talked about how important this step is for family policy, not from a financial point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U349	Dear Riigikogu, I apologise to the waitress, I have another procedural clarification. I looked into whether or not you were told, and it turns out they didn't. The Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu gives a member of the Riigikogu the right to ask two oral questions at second reading and no more. Although we have two rapporteurs, according to the Commission's decision, you still have two questions for two rapporteurs. Maybe it's finally clear now. Please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, When the new government took office, there were talk about the remote when the new government was open to proposals. The question is this: were the proposals for amending this draft really such that the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not find anything useful there to take over and take into account as an amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U351	Thank you. I hope that in future I will be able to make it clear to you, and specifically to your party's representative in the Commission, that we are really open and will do our best to develop cooperation. However, in this case, the time frame and the objectives set did not give any opportunity to do so. I have already talked here about the fact that the Free Party Group's draft 327 hopes that my memory will not deceive me, that all the odds were connected to today's draft. If they do, we will definitely cooperate with them in various ways in the future. There were no options for that now. Secondly, when it comes to a draft law that affects the state budget, we are based on a state budget that has long been completed and has passed two readings. The main issue was the decision of the Ministry of Finance as a representative of the government, I think you know the procedure and he did not support these amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U352	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U353	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! My question concerns the excise duty rates on lean alcohol. The planned increase in excise duty in 2017-2018, which was due to take place on 1 January, was postponed by 1 February. Let's see: February 2, 2017, July 1, 2017, February 1, 2018, January 2019, January 2020. Can you explain why it has been decided to go such a confusing way and what is behind this confusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U354	You probably know very well what this is for. Everyone knows that December is Christmas, it's about to start a new year and so on. Delays to February 2 have been made at the request of interested organisations, i.e. those who produce and deliver alcohol. It's in their best interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U355	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U356	Thank you. As a good legislative practice, the Chairman of the Riigikogu has increasingly emphasised something like inclusion. I understand that before the second reading was completed, at least according to my data, this was not the case for interest groups invited to the Riigikogu to discuss with them the changes that are under way in the legislative process. After you canceled your second reading, did you meet with the interest groups to discuss the matter? What's their position now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U357	Thank you. In the first half of the question, I cannot agree with you. About the other side, if you open the explanatory statement, you'll see an exhaustive review of the meeting that took place on December 12th. I repeat: there were four topics on the table and nine organisations were represented.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U358	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U359	Thank you. I did intend to keep my second question to the Minister of Finance, because Siser is certainly sorry that we cannot hold a long debate this time. However, I will return to the question I asked earlier. Actually, I need to refresh the committee chairman's memory. The Committee on Finance was talking about how much the state budget will benefit if the common tax-free share of spouses is abolished in the joint declarations. The officials of the Ministry of Finance said that if all other expenses were taken into account, the state would earn EUR 10 million in revenue if it lost the income tax-free portion of the joint declaration of the spouses. The Estonian state puts its hand in the spouses' pockets and withdraws 10 million euros. That's the number that came through. I think it's very fake to talk about nothing changing. 10 million changes, the country gets it at the expense of the people. Our group has proposed an amendment to this, and it will also come to the vote today. Unfortunately, you didn't support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U360	Thank you. With all due respect, Martin, but a member of your group, Jaak, was talking about me and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which was exactly the opposite. Whoever lied about us, we'll find out tomorrow. Right now, I have to believe you, and I believe you. But at the same time, I have to say that a figure like 10 million I would never have forgotten! So I didn't hear it, maybe because the debate was too cool on both sides of the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U361	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U362	We've got a sudden turnout night ahead of us. 13 years of my life I have dedicated myself to getting Gazprom out of Eesti Gaas. It finally happened. I have a very simple question, and it's for the waitress, by the way. Let's put the Commission aside. Did I hear correctly that the chairman of the committee and the committee did not care about the gas excise duty? And what do you think the point of getting divorced from Gazprom would have been? This is 13 years of my political life, buddy!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U363	Thank you. I'd call you Igor, too, friend, but you're not, are you? Calling me a friend by you was definitely overrated too. But I really appreciate your work on Gazprom. I don't know if you were the only person who took the flag and pulled Gazprom out of Eesti Gaas with some hook. Well, it's a heroic act that deserves a warrant. I hope you get it sometime. But when it comes to a heroic act, we are based on economic principles that do not depend on whether or not one partner is part of one organisation or another, whether or not there is work done. I could talk about it for a very long time here, but I'm not gonna do it today. In a sense, the question itself sounded like an answer. We care about gas, we deal with it, we definitely cooperate with interested organisations. It's my way of working, and when there's enough time for that, I'm totally working on it. There was no chance at the moment. You know why. But from now on, we'll do better and we'll care about the gas, Igor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U364	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! According to my personal opinion, I have also spoken it in the wrong way. I understand that your answer to that has been in the past that this is life. I have such a more general question. Perhaps you will list three things in this draft, which will contribute to the growth of Estonia's export capacity and economy? How does the new government coalition increase and contribute to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U366	Thank you. It's the next block from the government of the Republic, and it's definitely coming. It's not my thing today. But as for the first part of your question, I will give you this example. If my memory isn't fooled, there was a big fire in London in 1666. The city was on fire, except for the Tower. Almost everything burned down. After that, a world-famous architect such as Christopher Wren began to act. He built an enormous number of very beautiful buildings. Anyone who's been to London has seen them. Among other things, he built a Local Register Office building. And when he built this Local Register Office building, the then mayor of London distrusted him. He said this ceiling wouldn't stand, it would collapse, and he insisted that Christopher Wren put two columns in the big hall of the building that would keep the ceiling up. Wren didn't argue. He didn't start showing the mayor his calculations and his schematics and everything else that came up with. He set up those columns! But 200 years later, when the house was first repaired, it was discovered that there were five centimetres between the top of the columns and the ceiling. He set them up, but it's high enough, so you can't see from the bottom whether they support the ceiling or not. Now, if we're talking about whether these are the right decisions or the wrong ones... You know, I've lived the last ten years of seeing you make the wrong decisions. I've put up with it. You have to suffer a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U367	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I have often been able to admire the questions, and now when I listened to the presentation and answers, I was able to admire the ability to tell a story about something that had nothing to do with it. I have a very simple question. How does the story you told concern this bill and how does it contribute to the growth of the Estonian economy and the increase in people's wealth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U369	Thank you. If you don't understand, I'll explain it to you. Every time someone starts something, builds something, puts it in place, there are skeptics who always say no, it doesn't work, it's wrong. We just have to do it! If someone has taken the initiative and you believe in the program that you believe in your program, now let others believe, then time itself will show who has been right. I wanted to tell you another story, but you don't have a third question and you can't say anything about it afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U370	Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! The 302 bill also has a second, initiator waitress, and this is Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U371	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I asked the management board of the Riigikogu to present the draft before you as a co-rapporteur in order to discuss the amendments to the draft 302 under discussion and to answer the questions concerning them. As you know, this draft initially covered only the amendments to the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act relating to the promotion of workers' health, which I presented at first reading on 19 October. In the course of the procedure, they have been accompanied by urgent changes resulting from the agreement of the Government Union, and these are the following: The government union agreement, which is the basis for the changes, was signed on 21 November, a little more than a month before the end of the year. Indeed, this will result in a rapid pace of dealing with some of the changes. You will probably agree with me that political parties represented in the parliament in Estonia as a democratic country have the right to agree on the formation of a new government and that each government must have the opportunity, within the limits of law, to implement its policies. The new government union wants only tax changes that are fast due to the date of entry into force and which do not require major legislative changes to be approved in December. With a budget volume of 9.5 billion next year, the rapidly enforceable changes would be around 1%, or EUR 0.1 billion. The changes that are rapidly enforceable are also limited to those whose implementation does not require long preparation, as they are not technically complex. I would point out, for example, that if any tax rate remains exactly the same as a result of a legislative amendment, its implementation cannot be too burdensome for anyone. Good Riigikogu! I will now give an overview of the proposed changes. Most importantly, we want to carry out a tax-free income reform, i.e. to increase the tax-free income of people earning a exponentially lower average salary. This reform reduces the burden of labour tax for people who receive lower and medium wages, who are too highly taxed in Estonia compared to other countries, and who therefore find it difficult to cope and remain competitive. Raising tax-free income to EUR 500 to people earning average wages favours that those who work can cope with their pay and do not have to depend on public subsidies. In this context, in the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, we wish to repeal the substantive provisions on income tax refunds for low-paid people so that in 2017 these people will receive a tax refund for 2016 and in 2018 a new tax reform will be fully implemented. Increasing tax-free income will reduce the tax burden on lower and middle incomes by more than half a percentage point in the reduction of social tax on labour taxes. The Government Union therefore wishes to keep the social tax rate the same as it is at present. Thus, the reduction in social tax by 0.5% would be avoided, which, without amending the law, would apply from next year. The legislator has the possibility to replace one tax measure with another, in particular if it is a more effective measure than before. As regards the increase in tax-free income, there are still some changes to the Income Tax Act. The limit on the deduction of interest on a mortgage from the taxable income is set at EUR 300 and the exemption for interest on deposits is abolished. With regard to the joint declarations, we have come to a solution by considering the possibilities that we will retain the possibility of a joint deduction of costs. Unlike today, when submitting a joint declaration, the tax-free income of spouses cannot be aggregated, but the new tax-free rate of EUR 500 per month exceeds the maximum level of tax-free income that could have been used under the current procedure for the submission of a joint declaration by spouses. The second, as well as the urgent change due to the deadline, is to keep the VAT rate on accommodation services at the current level, at 9%, leaving aside the planned increase to 14%. I read yesterday Verni Loodmaa, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Hotels and Restaurant Association, that the feedback from the members of the association to the decision of the new coalition is supportive. Mr Loedmaa says: 'My deep conviction is that the budget will receive much more tax revenue from our sector in the coming years than it would have had in the event of an increase in VAT. The proposed changes favour new investments and leave room for possible wage increases, which in some cases are essential. The decisions taken will help Loodmaa to maintain existing jobs and create new jobs. Thirdly, it is planned to increase the rates of excise duty on beer, cider and wine for dilute alcoholic beverages by reducing the difference with excise duties on spirits. The current excise policy and the relatively rapid increase in wages in recent years have led to the same level of relative vodka prices, while beer has become relatively cheap compared to the average income. The increase in the planned beer excise duty will prevent further relative depreciation. In the long term, it affects people's health, their ability to work and should increase the number of years of healthy life. It is also in line with the Green Paper on alcohol policy, which provides for the taxation of alcohol irrespective of the way it is produced. In addition, it is planned to postpone the increase in alcohol duty of 1 January 2017 and 2018 until February. Fourthly, changes to excise duties on fuels are planned. It is planned to cancel the increase in excise duty on diesel for 2018. In addition, excise duties on natural gas are planned to be increased between 2018 and 2020. As a result, the final price of natural gas will increase by 2,5 to 5,4% in each given year as compared to the previous year, depending on the volume of the consumer's gas consumption. Given the feedback that the rise in excise rates is problematic, in particular by weakening the competitive position of industry, the government has promised to look for ways to mitigate excise policy on energy-intensive companies in the first half of the new year. From 1 July 2017, a package on the harmonisation of excise duties on gaseous fuels will be implemented. It is a long-prepared change, also discussed with stakeholders, which is mainly necessary for taxation on a similar basis to gaseous motor fuels and improves the competitive environment. These are the main changes related to taxes included in Bill 302. As I said at the beginning, in December only the part of the proposals of the government union that is really urgent will be dealt with. The rapid pace does not mean that changes are made without taking into account proposals and criticisms. The feedback received has been taken into account in a number of important points. For example, the possibility of joint income declarations is maintained, the new regulation of the vehicle registration fee was removed from the draft. Basically and technically more complex drafts are planned by the government to prepare and deal with the normal procedure. Their impact starts in 2018 and later. The reduction of the income tax rate applied to companies in the distribution of profits, the creation of an entrepreneurial account, the taxation of sweetened beverages, the introduction of bank charges and a number of other steps will be prepared and dealt with in the next year. This list also includes the linking of the state fee for vehicle registration with the CO2 emission or engine power of the vehicle. The Ministry of Finance has drawn up a proposal for this, but some of the nuances that have emerged during this work require longer consideration and it is therefore more appropriate not to regulate this issue with today's draft. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Growth is one of the main objectives of the government union. As the economy grows, people's well-being grows faster, we can help weaker members of society, we can improve our defence capacity more quickly and we can help more families. We want to focus attention on reducing labour taxes; we want to focus more attention on the lower and middle earners. Given that the tax rate will remain low, 20% even for higher wages, and most workers will pay less labour tax in the future thanks to increased tax-free income, we see the incentive effect of reforms primarily on employment and the economy at all. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U372	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U373	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, In today's Question Time, I asked you how the tax changes you introduced in December will affect the overall tax burden of Estonia in 2017 and 2018. Will they reduce our overall tax burden or increase our overall tax burden? It's an excerpt from the verbatim. You replied: 'Maybe if you look at your questioning, you could even say that the overall tax burden will be further reduced next year. ' I will give you the opportunity to think about this answer and I will give you the opportunity to answer the question whether the tax changes of the coalition in 2017 and 2018 will increase or reduce the tax burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U374	Thank you for your opportunity. You always have to take every chance. And where I can leave it untapped when I've been given a bleacher to explain our good changes. Dear colleague, when we talk about the tax burden on labour, the summer forecast of the Ministry of Finance is currently 34.4% by 2016. What would happen if we continued with the current policy if we did not make any changes to labour taxes? These changes, which have now entered into force and which were made by the previous coalition, which has now dissolved, foresee that labour taxes will rise to 34.7% by 2020. The effective tax rate on labour would have increased from 34.4% to 34.7%. At the moment, 34.4% is the same, nothing has changed yet, but by 2020 the tax rate on labour will fall to 34.2%, or the difference between now and the new is half a percent. We're talking about labour taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U375	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U376	Thank you. Good waitress! As a fresher person than me and a brighter person, I'm sure you'll remember well, and you'll be able to boost my aging brain. There's always been some logic behind the uprisings. Some steps have been agreed and negotiations with stakeholders have often been behind these agreements. As far as I know, you and the tobacco and alcohol producers agreed about a year ago that these changes would remain as planned. And in return, they promised not to go to court against the country. Tell me if it was! And tell me if this deal is gonna break somehow and if it breaks, what's gonna happen to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U377	Thank you. We must look at alcohol duty as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the changes the new government wants to make in the near future. There are new political priorities. And notice that the average wage has risen quite strongly this year and will continue to rise in the coming years. In my opinion, a number of political forces have contributed to this. But there is a nuance to the fact that the average wage is rising rapidly, which I definitely want to mention here. And there's a strong increase in the tax-free minimum. This leaves more people EUR 62 per month, more than EUR 700 per year. This leads to a situation where the price of lean alcohol is reduced compared to the average wage, by the way, not for strong alcohol, and the additional measure that the new government wants to implement, gives even greater impetus to the fact that the price of lean alcohol is actually falling compared to the net income of a person. And that is also, I think, a very clear reason for the amendment: we cannot create a situation in which alcohol is always cheapening for us over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U378	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The way these tax increases have been brought to the Riigikogu does not suffer criticism, but I am pleased that the explanatory memorandum to the draft at least contains the views of the stakeholders. Specifically, I am asking about the increase in the excise duty on natural gas. The views expressed are, of course, crisp, until the Estonian Food Industry Association says that its impact will be passed on to the final consumer and the bill will substantially increase food prices. But the only objection I see from the Ministry is that in the first half of next year, solutions will be sought for companies that produce high added value, in order to find any relief in terms of gas and electricity excise duties, in particular, compared to those in other countries. How's this gonna work anyway? Do we do the deed first and then we start to come up with some exceptions? What are they, and aren't they going to be complicated? Have you really sufficiently analysed all the effects on which interest organisations are quite pessimistic in their analyses?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U380	Thank you again for a good question. Of course I'm ready to answer you. At present, an increase in gas excise duty of 20% has been agreed in 2015, 2016, 2017. It's an agreement of previous coalitions. According to the new agreement, the excise duty rate will increase by 25% in 2018, 2019 and 2020. If we look at the share of the gas price in the final price of the product, we will see that the increase in the final price is in practice 2.5 to 4.5%, up to a maximum of 5%, depending on the consumption volume of gas consumers. When we are talking about domestic consumers, the price of gas to domestic customers using up to 200 cubic metres will rise by 2.5% compared to the previous year, mainly by 3.7% for large consumers. The government has taken the view that it wants to return to the problems of energy-intensive companies in particular in spring. We want Estonian companies to be able to compete with other markets and, in the case of energy-intensive companies, this means that we are very likely to wish to grant them incentives. Whether they are in the form of lower excise duties or concern renewable energy, they are separate issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U381	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U382	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm a little confused. I have realised that the main policy of the new government has been to reduce alcohol consumption, but in the previous or previous reply you stated that an additional €800 would provide an opportunity to continue drinking the same amount of alcohol. So I'm a little confused. I hope this isn't really your plan. But knowing you as a great supporter of the economy and an entrepreneur of various steps, I ask such a question. Now that a lot of money is taken out of people's pockets to create equality in society, don't you have to worry about selling Tori's center? I understand that we had certain differences in opinion on this: we wanted to invest there, but you did not quite agree. I hope that this point has now been taken down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U383	Thank you. I am about to try to answer and, as you know, not only the question, but also the introduction. In this sense, I will certainly take advantage of the opportunity offered by the night sitting to provide a longer answer and comment on questions in the light of all the parties involved. First of all, in the introduction to the question, you said that you did not understand whether the goal of government policy to raise the tax-free minimum is to make more alcohol available to the public. No, that is certainly not an objective. That is why we want to increase the excise duty on lean alcohol so that there is no situation where people can buy more alcohol with their average salary, net income. As far as your specific question, or Tori's horse farm, is concerned, you have brought this issue to the table, but let us be honest, this has not been discussed specifically when we are dealing with draft 302. But, of course, I'll comment on that too, if you like. Let us be honest, your proposal to create an additional variety of state-owned public limited liability companies and invest more taxpayers' money in them was not generally accepted in the office. Rather, it could be said that the cabinet was of the opinion that, if there is no market failure, it should be possible for private players, private companies, private interests, to continue the traditions associated with Tori's horses. As you know, it was not the opinion of one minister or another, but the opinion of the whole office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U384	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U385	Mr President! Dear Minister, The proposal of the Estonian Free Party Group to introduce a social tax ceiling for highly paid jobs has been destructively assessed and rejected. At the same time, I did not find any measures that could benefit the Estonian economy precisely by creating high-paid jobs. What do you think they are?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U386	Thank you. We're gonna stop for a second at the high-paid tax ceiling. The question is what will really happen when a tax ceiling is introduced to create new high-paid jobs. Let's take a look at history. Latvia introduced this ceiling, but during the period they looked at, there was no substantial increase in high-wage jobs. Later, in order not to restore this ceiling, they created a new tax, a solidarity tax, at exactly the level where they had introduced the tax ceiling before. This is certainly a separate issue, whether one or the other measure contributes to the creation of high-paid jobs. The government has ideas. The government has the idea of paying attention mainly to start-ups, mostly start-ups. However, it is clear that it is not possible to discuss all nuances by agreeing on a coalition agreement in ten days, of course. The government has to give priority and direction where it wants to move. And the government has agreed to take a look at these infamous Excel charts, then you'll see it! In particular, EUR 20 million has been earmarked to further increase competitiveness.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U387	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U388	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! You have spoken very passionately about the need to boost economic growth on quite a number of occasions from this very remote control. I agree with you as much as possible, then economic growth must be helped. How, though, will the planned tax increases and new taxes contribute to economic growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U389	Thank you. Look at the whole picture! This is also the case in the past when we have talked about possible tax changes, so it has been. This was also the case a year and a half ago when the Coalition was also part of the Reform Party, the Social Democrats and the IRL. Similarly, it could have been asked how the increase in VAT on accommodation and restaurant services from 9% to 14% will contribute to economic growth. How it contributes to economic growth could have been asked a year and a half ago. One could have asked how the increase in excise duty on diesel will contribute to economic growth in Estonia. You could have asked me how it would help. We always have to look at the whole picture. If we raise any taxes, what kind of taxes are we going to make? The impact of the package as a whole on overall growth must be seen. If we look at the overall picture now, we will see what is being done specifically to contribute to economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U390	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U391	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! The Food Industries Association has pointed out that the planned tax increases will increase food prices, which in turn will have a negative impact on the competitiveness and export of food manufacturers. My question to you is, doesn't the welfare of our exporters matter to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U392	Good questioner, thank you. That's a very good question. Of course it's gonna work. If you mean sugar-sweetened drinks, whose taxation is certainly an important issue for the food industry, this bill is not yet on the table. Yes, the government union has agreed on this in principle. If you look at the analyses already carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs, they show that more attention needs to be paid to sugar-related products. It is currently agreed that the effects will not be fully discussed. And as you can see, it doesn't appear in a particular bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U393	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U394	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! I am thinking of the irony of fate that you, as the chief ideology of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, are pushing a new system of taxation, which leads to a middle party and more than a hundred degrees in this House. You yourself, of course, have denied both the levels of the new system and the complexity of today's simple and understandable system. But as Minister of Finance, you will certainly be able to answer what will be the income tax-free minimum for a person earning an average salary of EUR 1350 after 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U395	Thank you. Now we're getting to a subject that's been a speech, I'd say, in the last two or three weeks. Maybe less in the last few weeks, but when it was still time for a new government alliance, the air was constantly being filled with rumors directed at the Reform Party. It was said that there would be company tax. In fact, the government coalition agreed that in the future companies would instead be encouraged to withdraw dividends by lowering the tax rate on dividends. The second issue, which specifically relates to your question, is personal income tax. You gave the impression that there would be an immediate agreement to introduce progressive income tax and that people with a higher salary, either because they have better education, better production results or whatever the reason why they receive a higher salary, would be charged higher income tax. As you can see, it's not. We still have a tax rate of 20%. I can also tell you that the 20% income tax rate is a very low rate for higher-wage earners compared to the rest of Europe. At the same time, it is a very high rate for low-wage earners when compared to another Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U396	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U397	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! In time, the cap on income was raised to 1200 euros to encourage the economy and the housing market to deduct interest on housing loans. Now a very drastic, quadruple down to 300 euros is being proposed. In my opinion, this change is the result of which the people with middle incomes, families with several children, are most affected. Why is such a target group chosen? Do you not think that this quadruple of the threshold violates the principle of protecting people's legitimate expectations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U398	Thank you. Once, when the possibility was created to deduct the interest on the mortgage from the income, this was because the interest was high and the aim in Estonia was to encourage the growth of the housing fund and to give the opportunity to mitigate the higher interest rates that were in force at the time. We'll be in a different situation by now. The interest has come very close to zero. No loans are granted to private individuals at negative interest rates, but it is already possible to settle negative interest rates between countries through bonds and loans. If we look at the income tax returns and the possible reduction of the cap on the deduction of mortgage interest from income, it has also been said whether we should still have such a measure. Does this serve the purpose of the measure when it was put into effect? The current government coalition has found that this measure should not be abolished once and for all, but it is enough if the state still fails to include EUR 300 of taxpayers' money in its income.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U399	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U400	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Despite increasing prevention and higher health awareness, there are very many smokers in Estonia, but I can see that there is no increase in tobacco excise duty in the tax change package. Is there a reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U401	Thank you. Tobacco duty is currently planned to increase by 8% per year in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U402	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U403	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I think you really want the Estonian economy to do better in your heart. Unfortunately, your steps with this tax package show the opposite, and my question is why you so desperately propose some things and then take them back again and then start analysing some things for a very long time. I have concerns about potential foreign investors who could invest in energy-intensive industries, for example. After all, the distinction you have referred to today has been analysed for years, but you still put this distinction of gas excise into the debate in the spring. Why do these things take so long, and why did you first send out a signal that gas excises will start to grow exponentially in the coming years? Do you not think that investors have already fled to neighbouring countries after this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U404	Your time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U405	Thank you. Good Kalle, just because we're on different sides right now doesn't mean anything. In fact, I think you did very well when you were chairing the Committee on European Union Affairs and pointing towards Europe. I guess you figured it out yourself when you asked. There were little pranks in this matter. Of course, I think it is in all our interest that the economy grows. Another questioner in the meantime stated that, oh-oh, what you now have as a priority is either economic growth or restricting the availability of alcohol, as someone else has said. Of course, different ministers have different perceptions of some specific objectives. I have made it clear that economic growth is certainly one of the key priorities. It's gonna be a lot of stuff. If you look at the activities in the near future, let us be honest, you should agree with me that not only these 2017 tax changes are justified, but also, in fact, the amendments which we have not yet been able to talk about today, but which we want to come to Parliament with in the first half of the year. I will give you an example of setting up an entrepreneur account. But there are different steps that will contribute to economic growth to a lesser or greater extent. Believe me, we mean the same thing to you! We may see different capabilities to contribute to economic growth, but believe me, we think alike that growth is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U406	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U407	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear Minister, For the third time, I come back to the issue of the tax burden. I understand that you do not want to answer this question because, at the time you are a minister, Estonia's tax burden has increased from 32.6% two years ago to 34.7%. When you prepared the budget for next year, you loved to stress that the tax burden is on a declining trend. I'll ask you again. And I would stress that I am not asking separately about the burden of direct taxes or the burden of indirect taxes, I am asking about the general tax burden of Estonia. I read the news in the BNS that the new coalition will increase the tax burden to 35.8%. I ask you for the third time: will the tax changes of the new coalition increase the tax burden in Estonia next year and the following year or will they reduce it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U408	Thank you. I'll start with the introduction first. I'm sorry to hear that you're actually shooting or, let's say, questioning the decisions of the Taavi Clothing Government. That's really weird to hear. You will certainly be discussing this after the group, because these have always been collective decisions. It has never been before, nor will it be in the future, that one or the other minister will definitely not be solo. All the decisions that are being made now and before are common decisions of the government. You can believe that regardless of how you position yourself in your party, whether you are in opposition or in a coalition. As far as the tax burden is concerned, it seems to me that you are complaining to me and to Taavi Clothes that the Tax and Customs Board has collected taxes well. Because better tax collection by the Tax and Customs Board has contributed to a general increase in tax collection. I think that you, for example, are complaining to Swedbank that it has paid an amount of 500 million dividends because, when they are paid, it has paid an amount of income tax of EUR 100 million. Dear colleague, follow two things at the same time: follow the changes that are being made in fiscal policy, and follow the changes that indirectly contribute to the increase in tax revenue. Take, for example, the reduction of the dividend tax on mature companies. By reducing this rate from 20% to 14%, we expect more revenue from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U409	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U410	First of all, I note that Aivar Sõerd hardly put forward the good work of the tax administration; rather, he had in mind the tax increases that the incoming government is planning. As regards the more favourable taxation of corporate dividends, this is the right thing from God that was already on the agenda during the previous government. But it must be acknowledged that the cluster bill on the table today has still been very screwed up in terms of both content and procedure. Just reminding me of a few dull facts. First of all, the law in force requires that tax changes, in particular those which are harmful to people, and which is provided by this bill, must be adopted at least six months before entry into force. Secondly, Estonia's current tax system has been the most competitive in the world for three years in a row. In order not to let you answer very roundly, I will ask you a specific question of fact. It doesn't say that in the bill. How much will the increase in the tax-free minimum to EUR 500 have an impact on the budget without all possible other decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U411	Thank you. I will answer that question and I will also answer the introduction. The reduction of half a percentage point in the social tax is intended to be abolished. I think that reducing the tax burden on labour by means of tax-free income reform, I would like to emphasise the word'reform', because this is a powerful increase in the short term, which will have the greatest impact on solving our biggest problem. This biggest problem is the tax burden on low-paid people. Several of our own social and international organisations have also drawn attention to this. The average tax burden on low-paid labour in our partner countries is lower than we do, the tax burden on high-paid workers is lower. As far as the price is concerned, 147 million have been written on the price tag.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U412	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U413	Thank you, Mr President. A good friend, if you could say so! Four days ago, I asked the same question on Facebook, but I still haven't gotten an answer. I will now read my question again here. I have this concern: can you tell me why two families with equal incomes will be treated differently in the future? If the income of the families is in the order of magnitude, we will cancel the exact decimal places for a salary of 2400 euros and two children will grow in both families. Let's just say that there are two earners in one family who receive equal amounts of EUR 1200 and EUR 1200, and in the other family there is one earner, or an income of EUR 0 + 2000. Why is the tax-free amount 1000 euros in the first family and zero in the second? And why does one start with 20% taxation of EUR 1400, the other one starts with 2000? Will dedication to the family no longer be valued in the future? And to be quite honest, isn't this a hidden progressive income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U414	Thank you. No, it's not hiding anything. We've been over this, and I'll talk again. By raising the tax-free minimum to 500 euros, we will increase the current threshold to more than three times for one person, and we will also increase the threshold to two people combined. The possibility of tax-free income for children will continue to exist in the future, with the possibility of making a joint declaration in the future. What's not to be preserved? It is not maintained that if a person does not have income earned in the past, he or she will also be able to transfer the income tax-free minimum. If the spouse has had expenses during the period, it is possible to pass on his or her expenses to the other spouse.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U415	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U416	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! It has been said that politics is the art of appearance. I understand that it is very important to you that there appear to be levels of income tax, not progressive income tax. But that's it. There is another important detail about this appearance: namely what happens after the first impression. If the first impression of foreign investors is that excise duties on gas in Estonia start to grow exponentially every year, that there will be a car tax, that will be a bank tax, then believe me, they will draw their own conclusions. Your efforts to introduce some kind of distinctions for energy-intensive companies may then be unnecessary. But now my question. Where does this money come from to establish these differences? From the state budget? If from the state budget, where does the money for this measure come from in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U417	Thank you. In your introduction, you touched on a number of topics. I'll try to answer them all if I can. And I apologize to the previous questioner. She started by not answering her on Facebook. I'm trying to fix myself! I really do try to answer on Facebook sometimes, but I kind of missed it. But let's look at the whole picture! I used to talk about that, too. You are saying that a specific tax is rising and could be resisted by a reduction in a specific tax. When we look at the whole picture, we see that the situation of Estonian companies is getting better than it is today. It's getting better, believe me! You see, it's getting better! Especially if we also implement the measures that we are not yet talking about today and which we will return to in the spring. All of these contribute to improving the Estonian business environment. The whole picture's getting better! You know it's getting better, too. Now, from a financial point of view, you actually asked where the money came from. If you are planning one measure or another, and especially if you are proud of the fact that you are conducting a tax reform, the talk is, of course, about the government, which is going to cost a lot of money, then you need to know where the money is coming from. This infamous Excel table, which is always spoken of as a difference, should start to talk about tables in PDF or any other kind of table, has been sent to the public as well as to all parties. It sets out both costs and revenues in the short term, separately in the form of tax measures and subsidies. Similarly, the state budget will provide additional support for farmers next year. If you ask where the support for farmers comes from or where the additional capacity to channel more money to teachers is due next year than we agreed earlier, you will see that there are also profit lines for this. And if we are now talking about the country's budgetary strategy, the four-year national budget strategy, in addition to 2017, we certainly want to pay attention to how to increase our capacity to channel public resources further into infrastructure investments. By the way, a good colleague, Kristen Michal, sent me a letter in the last few days, before the disbanding of the previous government coalition, saying that there is now a need for stronger infrastructure investment. Of course, we see many things the same way, and I think it is very important. The aim must be to grow the economy. We have seen one and another measure differently. One example has been the fall in social tax, which we have treated differently. This attitude was also different before, during the elections, when you had a clear vision of how to lower labour taxes in the form of social taxes. We have wanted to do this through some other measure. But the goal is certainly the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U418	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U419	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. With this draft, we will also amend the Labour Market Services and Support Act. Thanks to an increase in the tax-free rate to EUR 500, the system of refunding income tax to low-income earners every year loses purpose. This system has not been the most successful since the beginning, but that's what it is. This system is valid for one year, and for that one year, the Tax and Customs Board will have to develop IT services, which will cost us EUR 1.7 million. Do you consider this cost of EUR 1.7 million to be reasonable for a repayment in one year, especially if we put the fact that we do not find EUR 100000 in support of women's asylums in the second pan? Do you think that's a reasonable cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U420	Thank you. You always have to look at things in the collection. I'd rather say something else. I would say that EUR 38 million will be paid back by the country in the spring of next year to people with a salary of EUR 500 to 600. Not EUR 3000, but EUR 500.600! These people will receive their income tax back in full or in part next spring. If you ask me whether it is a better system to make a refund, as this is the case for one year, or whether it is better to make a tax reform, which will not result in income tax being levied on low-wage earners, then I fully agree with you: a better system is a system where no income tax is taken. I fully agree with you on everything that sounded in the introduction to your question. The new coalition has agreed that the refund system will disappear and that a logical reform will be carried out, which will give a person the opportunity to create a monthly situation in which he will not be taxed. That is the case when his salary is around EUR 500.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U421	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U422	Thank you, good waitress. I wanted to ask on the social issue, but you mentioned that the goal of the new government coalition is economic growth, and I thought I would look at the whole picture, just like you. Eesti Pank's new economic forecast says that on the basis of the new inputs mentioned by the new coalition, we will face a budget deficit in the government sector in the next three years. The assessment is that an increase in government expenditure in the context of a budget deficit can speed up economic growth in the short term, which is probably your aim. However, it damages the long-term competitiveness of the economy, which would be bad in itself. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U423	Thank you. That's a good question! And a very important issue not only in Estonia, but throughout Europe. We are used to talking about various tax policy measures that should contribute to economic growth. This has been a classic issue of how we contribute to economic growth, competitiveness through various fiscal policies. There are, of course, support measures, there are legislative changes that should contribute to the growth of Estonia's competitiveness or the elimination of competitive advantages in the internal market, for example, when it comes to non-payment of taxes. But more and more attention will be paid to budgetary policy measures. The European Commission has said that countries should pay more attention to fiscal policy measures to contribute to economic growth. This generally means that fiscal policy measures further stimulate economic growth. The current government union has essentially agreed that we are looking at a cyclical picture. If there has been a structural deficit in previous periods, this deficit should be covered in subsequent years in order to achieve a structural balance. If there has been a structural surplus in previous years, the economy should not be cooled. In the medium term, the structural balance should always be maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U424	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U425	Thank you! I understand that it must be very difficult for the Minister for Finance to answer my question. I suspect there's gonna be a big bubble. But I'm still asking. We have made some calculations on the impact these tax changes could have. Unfortunately, it is simply some calculations and there are no impact analyses. I particularly miss long-term impact analyses; I do not see them at all. For example, when the net income of people on higher pay decreases, a good entrepreneur takes up and raises people's wages. As a result, its labour costs are increasing. Unfortunately, no calculations have been made to this effect. So I'm saying your impact analysis doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U426	Thank you. It's not hard to answer. I do not agree with your statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U427	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U428	Thank you. Tax theory says that all taxes have two types of effect. One is fiscal, or budget revenue, and the other is influence on behaviour. Of course, if we encourage low-wage jobs in Estonia, we will get low-paid jobs, and if we tax higher than the current average wage in Estonia, it will be more expensive to create jobs in Estonia in the future. It's all for granted. If you look a little further into the future, maybe it's useful to remember the past for a moment. Ten years ago, Estonia's average wage was half as low as around 600 euros. And the amount that is now the average salary, in ten years, could be a long way below the median. But my question is about the process. How do you justify the violation of the law's provisions on time limits by adopting this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U429	Thank you. In order to be more constructive, I will go straight to the question. You're telling me we're talking too long here. In the meantime, they complain that I don't answer thoroughly, then they complain that I talk too long. Today, both the Chancellor of Justice and the Ministry of Justice have stated in writing that if changes are to be made that are substantial, these changes can be made. The question is whether these are substantial changes. We believe that this is an important reform that is more effective than a measure that would have entered into force on 1 January next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U430	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U431	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! You have said several times today that your priority is economic growth. As we know, economic growth can come either from an increase in domestic consumption, investment or exports. Which of the tax changes you are planning will support the growth of exports?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U432	Thank you. One that could be put on the table immediately is the decision not to increase the VAT rate for hotels from 9% to 14%, which the previous coalition wanted. In my opinion, this will contribute to the export of our services and this is important. I think we've had different opinions. I remember that a year and a half ago, when we were discussing this, we reached an agreement on 14%. It was a political agreement, and it was the will to actually raise the tax rate to 20%. This is one of the examples. However, stopping the increase in excise duty on diesel in the future will also contribute to our competitiveness, which should ensure that Estonian companies do not increase prices as much as expected. I would remind you that a year and a half ago there was an increase in this excise duty rate over a period of four years. Then we agreed to take away this fourth year, and now we have decided that we will also take away the third year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U433	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U434	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'll catch up with you guys a little bit. I do not call what is now going to be an increase in social tax, but a cut in social tax. But that doesn't change the fact that certain plans have already been made. Specifically, local authorities are known to lose around EUR 3 million as a result of the change. They are losing the free money that they had the opportunity to make their own decisions about. Now you're gonna let them have $4 million, but it's a dedicated one. This means that you limit their freedom to three million and, in fact, only one million more. Okay, game for game, that, as it seems, is a lot here. How do you support self-determination and channel money where it is needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U435	Thank you, good question! I'll tell you. Local authorities have a labour cost of EUR 785 million in 2017. And as you rightly said, the impact of the social tax is in the order of 3 million, or 0.37%. One quarter of this really covers the country, as you rightly mentioned, in the form of the salaries of teachers and school leaders. In addition, as you have also mentioned, an additional EUR 4 million is being received by local authorities, which also motivates them to raise the salaries of kindergarten teachers. What else awaits local governments? When we talk about what has been agreed in the past, it has been agreed in the past that 15 million will be allocated to them in 2019 without tasks and 25 million in 2020 without tasks. Also, EUR 30 million per year will be collected from the income base , in addition to the previous agreements and without any additional tasks. Of course, in addition to this 30 million, there is also a wide range of grants coming from school lunches, school support services, additional support for private schools, which is expected to reduce the burden on local authorities and end up with initial education and public transport within the county. All of this together contributes to reducing the burden on local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U436	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U437	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will continue on the subject initiated by Maris Lauri, i.e. on the subject of impact analysis. The impact analysis of the whole package of tax changes can be found on 15 pages, mostly as a recounting of content, not as an impact analysis. For example, the reason for the amendment of the Income Tax Act is that it aims to reduce poverty. How much? Relative Poverty or Absolute Poverty? My question, however, is this: can you tell me how this package of tax changes affects the number of children living in poverty in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U438	Thank you. Of course, we can also construct an assessment of how one or the other measure will specifically affect the number of births. Of course, it is possible to calculate such an impact in the end. If you ask how a specific measure will affect the income of low-paid people in the future when it applies, I will say that it will have an impact of EUR 62 per month. Over EUR 700 per year, this measure will have an impact on people with low and medium pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U439	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U440	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Sven! Team thing, that was your favorite word when we were still in government together. To tell you the truth, I'm a little sorry about you, you're not gonna have this legal shit to deal with here at night yet, but we're gonna get there. For me, of course, it is a big surprise that in your opinion, the elimination of the increase in VAT on hotels increases exports. It's something new, but maybe as a lawyer I don't quite understand the economy, maybe you can do better. But tell me, please, that when you spoke to your colleague Reinsalu about the bill, how he felt about it. This is both from the point of view of legal expectations and from the point of view of good legislative practice and everything else that is a normal draft procedure. If the changes are presented on Friday evening and the large Riigikogu hall sees them late on Tuesday night and on Wednesday it is necessary to discuss whether this is a normal process or not? How do you feel about being a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U441	Thank you. So now we're here to talk about it. I was just studying the previous practice for my interest and discovered that in 2015, when there was a team thing, on 25 May the Riigikogu commission started not a government but a tax package. May 25th, 2015! Three days later, on 28 May, it was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. And on 5 June there was a first reading, and on 15 June there was a commitment to a vote of confidence. What does it say? It says that every now and then it is necessary to make decisions that need to be taken quickly, because time is pressing. And now we need to see if these decisions are correct, in the right direction, and if they conflict with any specific law. As far as I understand the positions of the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice are concerned, the measures that are now being put into effect will have a greater impact than the measures previously decided.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U442	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U443	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I recall the case concerning environmental fees that was dealt with in the Supreme Court. The decision to increase the government's anticipated and fixed-term environmental charges was declared unconstitutional. Minister, how can you be sure, knowing this precedent, that the changes in the tax rates proposed in the bill currently under discussion will not prove to be unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U444	Thank you. I saw you read that question off somewhere. I'm trying to answer you. If we are talking about the decision on environmental fees that the Supreme Court once made, then yes, I am aware of that. But one important fact that does not exist in the current context must be taken into account. Indeed, companies paying environmental charges often operate on a fixed-term basis. If we are talking, for example, about the alcohol industry, which has also been mentioned here, then there is certainly no such aspect. The judgment refers to a fiscal interest in environmental charges. The current changes have no role to play in fiscal interests. The aim of alcohol policy is primarily to change health behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U445	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U446	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I come back to the question that Monika Haukanõm raised. It does not at all question the tax relief for low-paid people as such, but it does not question the 1.7 million which will be spent on the implementation of the income tax refund. And this system will only be implemented in one year. Perhaps the new system is better, but it still cannot pass the fact that spending such a large amount of money now is shielded and speaks of a fickle mind. My question is: how are political parties responsible for such a thing? Is it possible, for example, to withdraw the money from the state budget to the IRL, or is there some other way of assuming responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U447	Thank you. First of all, I wish you luck! I heard that the Riigikogu had just dealt with regional investments, folk languages with roofing money, and the Free Party had participated in everything nicely and made sure that the funds were directed to the right places and values were in place. So congratulations to you! You have embraced this idea nicely. Mikhail Stalnukhin expressed sometime in the press wonder why you were not as enthusiastic as you were last year, after all, these sums are meant to satisfy the wishes of the voters. So congratulations on the fact that you've joined the old parties on a boat. As regards the question of what the price of the various measures is and whether or not this price is justified, it should be noted that the cost of implementing one specific measure is sometimes quite high. And believe me, if we have the objective of helping to reduce the tax burden on people, then we should be guided by purpose. In the future, I think that we will have to accept more expensive measures when it comes to channeling taxpayers' money. I am not only talking here about IT technology, but also about tax policy. Any outright support is always more expensive for the Estonian taxpayer than needs-based. I think you understand what I mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U448	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U449	Thank you! Your previous answer, and all the answers at all, confirmed what I suspected: you very much like to be present, but you do not really want to answer. I ask you a simple question: have you read the latest forecast of Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U450	Thank you. Yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U451	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U452	Thank you. I understand that you are tired and tired of answering questions and therefore do not answer in substance. Once again, how many percent will this package of tax changes reduce the relative poverty of children? If you really cannot answer that now, I would ask that your officials send a reply in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U453	Thank you. I'm really trying to answer as thoroughly as possible. And I am trying to understand not only the issue itself, but also the positions reflected in the introduction to the question. And if they ask me a question, I can say, "Yes. ' But then you won't be happy and say the minister is tired. I'm not tired! I am ready to continue in full life and I understand that you have wished to hold a night hearing, and I am actually helping you with more and more comprehensive and longer answers. Don't worry! I'm about to get to the question, too, but as far as the night hearing goes, yes, I read the news today that the Reform Party is holding a night hearing. I used to look at the signals given to society at night sessions. And, you know, I'm telling you, I got a laugh. I'm quoting to you because it's a good opportunity to show that I'm not feeling any tiredness yet. Quote: 'The opposition's stagnation tactics are not constructive and put at risk the adoption of these drafts. " Who has said this? A good old friend of Remo Holsmer. Or, 'A large number of ten-minute short breaks of taxpayers' money, taking away the empty content, the opposition will draw all the attention from its arguments to an insane prank that does not allow a constructive debate to be held. ' Martin Kukk, your secretary-general. And I will conclude with the words of Mr Tsahkna, which he said in 2014, 'The conduct of night sittings is the only way for the opposition to stop the government's road roll policy. The attitude of the Reform Party and the criticism of the IRL is the customary attitude of the government. We are not happy either that we have to go this way, but I am sure that the Reform Party would do exactly the same in the opposition. " So much just because I'm tired or not tired. With regard to answering your questions as specific as possible, going down even further, and focusing on how possible future tax reform will affect people in poverty, I will send you this impact analysis separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U454	A procedural question. Maris Lauri had his hand up before Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U455	Thank you! I wanted to ask if there is any way to get the Minister of Finance to order, so that he does not insult the MPs, and that he finally starts answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U456	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U457	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! For me, unlike Maris Lauris, it is quite enjoyable how Sven Sester answers questions so long and enthusiasticly and contributes to our night hearing. But just one procedural question, because really, the situation is a little new for us. How long can a minister be allowed to give such an emotional speech before answering a question? I'm just worried he'll get tired of emotions and then he won't get an answer. Maybe there's a time limit that maybe two minutes can talk emotionally, but at the third minute, you have to start answering? Or isn't it written? Sven Sester's sense of humor and historical memory are, of course, impressive. I enjoy every second of the show that Sven Sester can play on the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U458	And answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U459	Thank you. I think that long answers will be fine if they are in line with the question. But I have a procedural request to the President of the sitting, the Chairman of the Riigikogu, that you may be able to check the sound system of the Riigikogu. It seems to me that the Minister simply does not get to the content of the question, his answers are often very much off the question. Perhaps the problem is that our sound system is failing for some reason. I have to say that there is a very good response to what is being asked, but it seems that every question does not reach the Minister for some reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U460	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U461	I will now answer all three questions at once. First of all, it was clear from these three procedural questions that Keit Pentus-Rosimpus member of the Riigikogu has a longer working life than Kalle Palling and Maris Lauril. That's first. I'm definitely asking you to check the quality of the technology. And if the Minister has a problem hearing the question, you could say that. At least I, from behind this minister, can say that I hear the question. Secondly, I must say that the Home and Working Procedures Act does not regulate the time for replying. The minister can answer as long as he wants. I guess he's counting on it. Thirdly, I am pleased to note that both the content of the question and the content of the answer do not fall within the competence of the President. It's a matter of professionalism for everyone. And fourthly, I call on the questioners to be polite to the minister and also to the minister to be polite to the members of the Riigikogu. For example, I will mention the interaction between Kalle Palling and Sven Sester, which has been critical in the same way but polite in the opposite direction. I hope that I have answered all the procedural questions that have been asked. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U462	Thank you, Mr President. Good Sven! I'd like to clap right at the demagogy master class you're playing for us here. It is a pleasure to watch and listen and it goes undoubtedly to the classics of Estonian demagogue video textbooks. I even recall that as a young politician, being at the Tallinn City Council, I listened to Edgar Savisaar's speech as much as he answered his questions. The good old Centre Party came to mind: paper was taken out from under a stack of paper saying that you two years ago did so. Good preparation, there's nothing to say! Power! I want to ask you, however, purely your opinion that when you now have all these changes through the reference, I have looked at this so-called RES table, whether you are really convinced that the revenue and expenditure of the budget will still run together nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U463	Thank you. Your time is now up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U464	Thank you, good Hanno! Since you said "good Sven," I say "good Hanno." Maybe there's a reason to say that the salt has been eaten together a lot. I'm in a dilemma now. I should not speak any further, while the questioner has had the opportunity to label the question in the introduction and to claim that it is demagogy. Actually, good Hanno, if I didn't parve it, it wouldn't be correct of me. I think I'm gonna have to do it anyway, otherwise we're not in an equal position. Otherwise, in your introductions, you put a mark on my forehead and you end up saying in the last ten seconds that my question is this. I don't think this is a demagogue. If you look at the changes that the government union is planning to make in the near future, they are far from demagogy. These are very powerful changes! Now the question I've forgotten. The question was whether the state budget for 2017 as well as subsequent changes are adequate and feasible with the available funds. We are not dealing with the draft state budget today, but we will give input to the state budget with the changes we are discussing today. I assure you, and this is not just a story, it is actually so small that the impact of the proposed changes will be very small in 2017, but much greater in later years. In 2017, it will be 1% of the budget. I assure you that I always like to be constructive, and if I am asked constructively, I will also answer constructively. I am giving you an opportunity right now: show me where it is clear that we have missed 2017 in terms of revenue or expenditure planning. I don't think you can see it. We handed this budget over during the old coalition. For now, as I said, about 1% of the changes have been made by next year. And believe me, there's a balance between income and expenses. Not even in balance, but structurally in a surplus of 0.2%. But when we talk about 2018 and beyond, of course during the spring RES debate, the whole picture will be on the table. When concluding the Government Union agreement, the government coalition also had a balance in mind in those years. But I think that the eye of the opposition, too, will certainly be watching that in spring, when a four-year strategy is put together, the government will still behave adequately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U465	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U466	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. South-Estonian trade workers made a joint return in connection with the problems of Latvian border trade. Stalnukhin's answers gave the impression that he wasn't quite aware of what was actually happening along the border. That's one. At the same time, it is known that the activity continues in the area, and not only alcohol is the one that follows in Latvia from Estonia. There, too, food sales are growing more and more rapidly. Did any analyses of the impact of border trade have been carried out in the preparation of the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U467	Thank you, very good question! Impact analyses were not only carried out on border trade. In practice, there are three important factors affecting the collection of excise duties on alcohol. The most important objective that we are actually raising excise is healthy behaviour. The income of excise duties on alcohol depends on how much people drink. The second factor is what you were talking about, perhaps border trade, and the third is the secret market. The secret market is always taken into account by decision-makers in order not to create a situation where the share of the secret market is increasing through certain activities. If we look at the collection of alcohol duty this year, we can see that it has been received in the expected volume, even a little more. We were more conservative when we calculated it last year. If we look at next year, given that the price of beer is rising significantly, it is estimated that at least in the second half of the year the quantities will decrease by 10%, of which 6% is more or less likely to have an impact on border trade and 4% will have a better health behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U468	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U469	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am indescribably fond of figurative comparisons, rhetorical speech, and today I have heard quite a lot of it here, and for that I have warmly commended! But I have a very specific question, which also requires a very specific answer, with a very specific numerical answer. The question is: how much will there be after 1 January 2018 for a person earning 1350 euros in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U470	Thank you. If you so specifically ask, I remember how Aivar Sõerd must have been on the stand as Minister of Finance for the first time and was asked for the combination of the two paragraphs. And then he went over some paperwork and stuff and didn't find where the number was. I can certainly give you the euro's reply later. But what can I say right now? I'll give you another indication. I will give you an indication that shows the so-called balance point for the current tax-free minimum and the new possible tax-free minimum. And this point is EUR 1758. By earning EUR 1758, a person will not win or lose compared to the current and new regulation. If a person earns a salary of 1300, whatever it was, he'll win a new law. This graph is there, I can send it to you separately, and you'll see exactly how much a person in this profit line wins. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U471	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U472	I'd go on with the humor key the Ministry of Finance is using here. I remember when you used to laugh, you said goodbye to the 2 billion guaranteed by the ESM in 40 minutes, and you also agreed to a direct payment of 140 million. That was really fun! Now Meta Advisory tells us that 50 million will go to Rail Baltic, of which 43 million will take projects, etc., mapping work of the Ministry of the Environment 0.3 million, additional management costs will be incurred in MKM, etc. I ask a very simple and specific question: where else is Rail Baltic actually hiding? And the answer shouldn't be that a couple hundred grand down and down doesn't matter. I think he does. Where is the $43.6 million spent on Rail Baltic, as Meta Advisory says...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U473	I must inform you here that we are discussing draft law 302. If the Minister considers it necessary to respond, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U474	Thank you, Mr President. I was actually gonna say the same thing. I understand that the questioner did not notice that we were not discussing the state budget, but a specific draft. I simply apologise and assure you that I have no problem following a separate discussion with you in the corridor, about the size of the resources to be directed to Rail Baltic, but we really are not discussing the additional funds that will be directed to Rail Baltic right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U475	A procedural question for the President. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U476	Mr President! The minister's answer was absolutely adequate, correct and relevant, which unfortunately cannot be said about the President of the sitting, because I heard a few minutes ago that he would not interfere with the content of the questions. If Rail Baltic should be my obsession, then the competence of the President of the Riigikogu is not to tell me.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U477	I did not intervene in the substance of the question, I recalled what draft we were discussing. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U478	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Let's talk about tax reform. The day before yesterday, a very good article was published in Äripäev by Jõelähtme Chairman of the Vallavolikogu Art Kuuma. I'm quoting a paragraph from his article. 'But with the third degree, it gets more complicated. It is well known that this degree amounts to EUR 1200.2100 and that every additional euro earned will be taxed at 20%. At the same time, each additional euro earned also reduces the tax-free rate so that it has fallen to zero at the rear edge of the step (EUR 2100 per month). As the level is 900 euros in width and the fall in tax-free income from 500 euros to zero is evenly divided over the total length of the step, each step will bring down the additional euro tax-free income limit by nearly 0.555 euros (500/900). This means that every additional euro earned in the third step is subject to income tax of 20 cents, plus income tax of 0.555 euros, by which the income tax exemption fell... '
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U479	Thus, each euro between 1200 and 2100 is subject to income tax of 31,11 cents or 31,11%. Why don't you comment on the nature of the third degree and this tax-free rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U480	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U481	Thank you. It seems to me that there was no question, because you specifically quoted someone's words in Äripäev. But what I want to say first, good Igor, is, of course, we'll go out afterwards and talk about whatever Rail Baltic and I have in mind. True story, I'm always willing to discuss any subject. But now, regardless of whether there was a question or whether there was just a statement, I will pause in a few words on the subject of income tax. It's actually simple. I assure everyone in the hall and on the Internet that the tax-free income is 500 euros for people who earn low or average wages. What does that mean? The low wage is the wage below the median, about 800 euros, when we talk about the order of magnitude. The average salary in 2016 is EUR 1130.1140, and next year it will be almost EUR 1200. All people who receive this salary have EUR 500 free of income tax. What does that mean? This means that it is money on which the state does not charge any percentage of income tax. After that, the tax-free rate will start to fall evenly from EUR 1200. And it is not so that every euro would not be useful to earn this sudden step. At EUR 2100, it will reach zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U482	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U483	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! You yourself have been one of the most ardent speakers against graduated income tax. Tell me if I'm wrong, but it seems to me we're coming up with such a creepy step-by-step tax without being dared to say it. Looks like there's a situation where you don't say 'wolf', they say'susi', but the thought stays the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U484	Good colleague! You could say the important thing is that the cat catches mice, no matter what the cat's name is. If it pleases you, I can tell you that it has been gradual all along: during the reign of Jüri Ratas, during the reign of Taavi Rõivas, and also during the reign of Andrus Ansip, when we talk about the steps in their nature. Whenever there is a tax-free minimum, there has been a degree from which the State does not take income tax. If you mean a substantive debate, whether the current system or the system to be introduced in the future is gradual in the classical sense, then I will tell you that, in the classical sense, progressive income tax applies when different percentages apply, according to the fact that if wages increase, income increases, income increases, the percentages will also rise. We now have 20% income tax and it will remain at 20% in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U485	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U486	Thank you, good manager. Minister of Finance! The Committee on Finance approved the proposal to allocate 15 million to implement these tax changes in order to manage this new system, to implement this new system. Is it really worth it? We are discussing this for a long time and it is certainly a very complex system, but what exactly are 15 million spent on these IT developments in the tax administration? Is it really so much money that taxes are collected in this new tiered system? And are there plans to create new jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U487	Thank you, that's a good question! No, believe me, it won't cost 15 million to set up a specific tax system! And if necessary, take it out of the verbatim and invite the minister to report, how did it happen now that the minister said 15 million wouldn't go, but then it did. Believe me, 15 million tax systems will not cost IT solutions! We are still talking about the very different IT solutions that await the country next year. A wide variety of IT solutions need to be further funded, and the new coalition found an agreement when concluding a coalition agreement that we would do so. But believe me and remember my words: a change in the income tax system will not cost 15 million!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U488	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U489	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! I will clarify my question and make it more specific. To begin with: the classic progressive income tax it may not really be, but it is about the same comparison that IRL is not a classic conservative party, but rather conservative on paper. In fact, he's moved pretty much to the left, and all he wants to do is share money from one pocket to another. Unfortunately, there are no members of the IRL Group in this Chamber at the moment, so that shows their attitude to the issue we are discussing. But figuratively, how much tax must be paid by a person who, after carrying out this reform, earns EUR 2 000 per month? How many cents per euro must it pay the state? A specific question. I'm sure you have the numbers, but you're prepared to come here. How many dozen cents does a person pay a tax to the state per euro if he or she earns 2,000 euros a month?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U490	I think you're being unfair when you say that the absence of IRL members shows attitude. I think by your daily behaviour you are trying to give some kind of signal to some group of voters, showing what your policy principles are and how you are trying to realise them. After all, you started your question by referring to the activities of a party. But let it stay, I'm not going to comment on what I think of your politics. We have different world views on one thing and another. With regard to your question of what will be the income tax of a person specifically earning EUR 2 000, I say that EUR 2100 is a salary for which no income tax-free minimum applies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U491	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U492	Thank you, good manager. Minister of Finance! I shall state so much that, in my opinion, this is a very complex system. Listening to this long conversation here today, I have not quite understood what the increasing tax burden will be for teachers, for example, whose wages we are working so hard to raise. And how much is it going to cost to manage this system? You said it wasn't 15 million, but how much is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U493	Thank you. Of course, a variety of procurements are just starting. If you know today what the final price of one or the other procurement is, I am very surprised. The political direction is now in place, and I hope that Parliament will approve it. If Parliament approves this, it will be possible to start tendering and then the final price will become clear. But I assure you once again: believe me, it is not 15 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U494	Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U495	Thank you. Dear Minister, You've been telling me for the last five hundred times how much this 500 minimum will give somebody more money as if the government were giving it to them. Of course, this money will be taken away from somewhere else. But in the case of the tax system, you have to think about how it works and how it works. Please do not tell me how much money will be received from you, with your generous permission, but tell me what the income tax rate will be in the pay range of 1200 to 1700 euros!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U496	Thank you. Of course, neither you nor I believe that one minister, one person at all, will give or take money from anyone. It would certainly be another country, and I believe you would not want to live in that country either. The cost of this whole tax package, when we are talking about a tax-free rate of EUR 500, is 147 million, as you know. The possible rate of €1200 to €2100 since the salary starts to decrease steadily, and at €2100 it will end up at zero. You want to know what the net amount to receive for one or another particular salary is. No problem! Look at this estimate, there's no problem in calculating it. At EUR 2100, it will finally reach zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U497	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U498	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Mr Madison specifically asked that if a person earns EUR 2 000 a month, how much income tax will go off on it. You have time to answer, so maybe you'll try to use this methodology and take into account how much this income tax is going to be on a euro?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U499	Thank you. After all, this methodology is actually set out how the income tax-free minimum will decrease in the case of higher wages. If you read the explanatory memorandum, you will see very precisely how the income tax-free minimum will decrease for each additional euro, reaching zero at EUR 2100 salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U500	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U501	Thank you, Minister. You said there was no problem with my own calculation. But you had a problem understanding what I asked for. I asked what is the income tax rate in the income range of 1200 to 1700 euros. I asked for the rate of income tax, but I can also say more complicatedly: what is the marginal rate of income tax between 1200 and 1700 euros? And why does it have to be like that? Please state this number and tell me what kind of economic policy wisdom calls for such a rate of income tax? What, for example, is the growth that we are hoping for?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U502	Thank you. This is a marginal rate of 34%. And if you look at what is going to be, as you know, so I know, of course, ultimately, not a marginal tax rate, but an effective tax rate, which is certainly a much more important tax rate for you and for me, you will see that people in this corridor actually win, because in the past, no percentage of income tax has been charged at 500 euros. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U503	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thanks for the answers. I'm opening negotiations. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U504	Good chairman of the sitting! Actually, you can talk about this bill for quite a while, but I'll ask you five plus three minutes, because no more format will allow.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U505	There are a number of issues in this tax package, but I will focus on one of them. This concerns gas excise duty, which is now rising and rising by 25% each year for three years in a row. This is subsections 4 and 38 to 40 of the draft law. Why do I think it's necessary to talk about it? Remember when the coalition agreement was concluded, the government said that it would put an end to the economic stagnation we are in and will certainly focus on steps that will contribute to economic growth. Industry certainly plays a major role in our economy. I therefore found it a little unclear how we can increase our economy by increasing excise duties on gas for three years in a row, i.e. by increasing the cost of companies. I don't think so. The proposed increase in the rate of excise duty on natural gas is to a large extent detrimental to the international competitiveness of production companies that consume larger quantities of natural gas. As I said, this change will increase the cost base for companies and, as a result, the investment of companies and the number of employees may be reduced, which will ultimately result in less money being received into the state budget. I would also like to point out that many companies have invested heavily in using natural gas as the most environmentally friendly fossil fuel in their production processes. When they made investments, they could not have foreseen that the excise duty on natural gas would be increased by 25% per year over the next three years. Such a change will also have a negative impact on the environment, as the increase in the price of natural gas resulting from an increase in the rate of excise duty could increase the use of other fuels which are more environmentally harmful in industrial plants. Why am I talking about this? Perhaps it seems as if the Minister's answers turned out that I am from the opposition party and I want to delay the hearing. But it's not really like that. This is not just a spiteful opinion from the representative of the Reform Party Group, who wants to delay the sitting in any case. Our goal is to draw attention to stupidity. We are not alone because the Committee on Monetary Affairs invited the draft to a debate, where it was decided, among other things, that there would be an increase in excise duty on natural gas, also representatives of the Estonian Association of Gas, the Estonian Association of Printing and Packaging Industry, the largest energy consumer AS Estonian Cell and the Estonian Food Industry Association. I am quoting their views, just in case, you will understand that this is not just my opinion or the opinion of my party, but is actually the general opinion of the experts concerned. For example, the Estonian Gaasing Association takes the view: 'The impact of the tax increase is very wide-ranging and disproportionate and discriminatory in one type of heating. " He also writes that the changes will bring about a situation where fuels that are much more polluting than natural gas and are less energy valuable are taxed times lower. The Estonian Printing and Packaging Industry Association found that, as a result of increasing energy costs, companies are losing investment in both production development and capacity building, and due to the tax burden, the competitiveness of the processing industry, including the energy-intensive industry, is low compared to neighbouring countries. The owners of Estonian Cell made one of the biggest investments in Estonia in 2006, about 153 million euros, and their turnover per year is around 70 to 80 million euros. We would like to see more of these companies in Estonia, so that investments come and our industry develops. Estonian Cell believes that its additional contribution alone next year and every subsequent year, as well as the increase in excise duty, is EUR 500000. Consequently, this company's cost base is increasing. Do you think such steps will encourage the emergence of industrial enterprises or new investments in the same order of magnitude as Estonian Cell? I also mention the opinion of the Estonian Food Industry Association, who said that the impact of all tax increases on the final consumer is such that, in essence, this draft threatens an increase in food prices. You gotta think about that, too. When the Minister of Finance said on Facebook that the new coalition is equal to the new policy and the new coalition is capable of admitting mistakes, and, as we have seen, the part about car tax was already taken out of this bill, I really sincerely hope that the new policy will also include recognising other mistakes and the gas excise will fly out of this bill. I cannot imagine how such steps can be taken to develop the economy. One more thing I remembered. When the coalition agreement was signed, the government's keyword was 'involving coalition'. As I mentioned, those experts whose arguments I quoted to you were involved in the Commission's debate. Do you think their opinions and arguments were heard? Answer: No. Consequently, we cannot talk about any new policies and inclusion, at least in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U506	Please add three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U507	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U508	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If the previous speaker, Deniss, spoke first of all about the substance of the draft, I would like to speak more about the rules surrounding our legislation. As a member of the long-term Committee on Legal Affairs and now, for a little more than a year and a half as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am very sad to note that we are moving more and more of the borders in which we should set an example for the people and, instead of complying with the laws, we find reasons for not following them. Today's major parliamentary parties have unanimously adopted 'Towards the development of justice policy until 2018', according to which the legislative process must be predictable and open. However, in recent times, the Riigikogu's plenary hall has been a situation where the two principles mentioned are not met at all. If, under the Tax Administration Act, tax changes have to be adopted six months earlier, the law is currently unambiguously broken. After all, the goal is to allow sufficient time to adapt to those who are subject to the change. This has been emphasised by the business representative organisations of the Chamber of Commerce and Employers' Confederation as well as by the Chancellor of Justice and, of course, by the previous President. At times, it seems that Finance Minister Sven Sester is making tax changes as if the elephant was behind the pieces in the porcelain shop. The urgency of the draft will lead to a situation where the quality of legislation suffers and the effects of the changes have not been sufficiently assessed. A vivid example of this is the abandonment of car tax. There is also much uncertainty about the abolition of the joint declaration. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has approved the guidelines for good practice in lawmaking; on this basis, there must be a reasonable time for the draft law to be processed, including for discussion in the lead committee, for preparation of documents and for discussion in plenary. During this period, members of the Riigikogu will be able to formulate their views on the draft and amendments and stakeholders will be able to express their views. According to the same instructions, the commission decides to place the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading of the working week of the Riigikogu after examining all the amendments and taking decisions on them. In recent weeks, it has happened repeatedly that the draft has long been sent to the Chamber for second reading, but the amendments have not yet been discussed. Very bad practice, another very bad practice. After all, the processing of the bill is a reasonable time taken from the members of the Riigikogu to examine tax changes and to shape the position. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, a member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to present his or her amendments at the committee meeting. This bill was not allowed again. I also asked the chairman of the committee about this. He said that, yes, after the interruption, the author of the amendment no longer wanted to present his proposal. I'd rather think Jüri Jaanson just didn't realize he had that chance. Similarly, the proposed changes have not passed the normal round of coordination within the Government of the Republic and have not been introduced to the relevant business organisations. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U509	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U510	Amendments of a fundamental nature have been made to the draft, which are not directly related to the original objective. The President of the Republic has previously pointed out that this practice is in conflict with the rule of law. In his view, it is not in line with the spirit of the Constitution that, just before the final vote, amendments of a fundamental nature are included in the draft. Not to mention that, for example, in the case of the previous draft of 299, doing two readings within one week is not the usual practice again, we have also broken it. Such raping legislation in the process of dealing with a cluster bill for tax increases worsens the quality of the laws. As Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the last one and a half years, I have been guided by the principle that our committee is precisely this committee, which must serve as an example of lawmaking for others in the enforcement of practices, rules and laws. Unfortunately, according to my knowledge, the chairman of the Riigikogu now only expects the coalition to comply with selective standards. Is this what a new open government means, that the goal devotes the means, not the existing practices, rules, and laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U511	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U512	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today's remoteness is relatively unfamiliar to me. It is unexperienceable that, as a member of the Riigikogu, I have been able to act quite little, despite the fact that the people have given me a mandate several times. But what I'm dealing with for the first time now is quite an interesting experience. I see a lot of things in this Chamber with experience of the municipality, and I think that if I had brought such budgets and explanations to the council as mayor, I would not have had a long party at the local government council. Today, however, we must bear in mind with sadness that at national level we have everything possible. When you look at the new government's deployment, I get the impression that it's like a Christmas calendar every morning when you open a window, something might surprise you. Perhaps the former Minister for Rural Affairs, Repinski, started it most forcefully, but it seems that the surprises will continue in this Chamber and in the committees. There's one thing I don't understand and it's outrageous. The draft cluster can and should be criticised and criticised. There is now an attempt to highlight those moments where, literally, in the face of the economic crisis, extraordinary decisions have been made which, in fact, have given us a pretty big advantage compared to other European countries. But I absolutely do not understand what concerns the agenda of the drafts or the inclusion in this Chamber before the discussions have been concluded and the proposals have reached the members of the Riigikogu. It reminds me more of Selver's cashier order, where every five minutes a client runs in line with an empty basket and tells me I'm coming right in and putting the goods in here. It certainly cannot be satisfied with this, and it cannot actually decorate or make any parliament happy. As far as the tax package as a whole is concerned, I have noticed a certain pattern of behaviour in shops. If a man's suit is sold there, at the moment when the discount is not yet available, the suits will be sold at one price, with one label, but then when the discount occurs, the second amount will be placed on the first label. After adding the cost of the suit and the pants together, however, it turns out that there is not much to win. This whole package resembles a display that at first sight gives the feeling that everyone is a winner. I believe that the dismantling of this type should be prevented in the Republic of Estonia and in Parliament. Regardless of the coalition or its change, it should not be possible to process the budget in this way. I don't support that. To sum it all up, you could say that the new coalition has set itself above the law. We have heard how the Centre Party and its former chairman have put themselves above justice. Now I think the fruits of it have gotten out in the open. The justices are doing their fair work here. When I recall my good colleague, Helmen Kütt, I remember that in the Ministry of Social Affairs we fought with him quite a lot for people to apply their fair contribution to life. We wanted and wanted people to be given a chance, regardless of their abilities, to receive even a small income. In this case, this tax refund for low-wage earners, which, in social terms, may be adequate and fair as a long-term objective, does not allow low-wage earners to come out of the trap. What makes me particularly sad is that people who have decided to work two or three low-paid jobs are now the biggest losers. Not to mention family. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U513	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U514	What saddens me most is that when the family has agreed that in the interests of raising children, a family member is working hard to support the family, the tax exemption will no longer be included in the income accounts of the spouse. This is a completely value-based conflict for me, for one very simple reason: in society, especially in conditions where we are talking about women's ability to participate in the labour market, we are underestimating the work that a family, whether a woman or a man, does at home. This situation hurts my sense of justice the most. I hope that this cosmetic tax correction or amendment of the declaration, which the new coalition is promoting, will actually go on. If we look at this more closely, we will see that certain charity or donation has not been considered positively at all in the new coalition's view. Instead of taking money away from people, we could give them more opportunity to decide where to turn our money into, including charity. Although the new coalition has said a great deal about how they invest in the next economic growth, Eesti Pank believes that the government should refrain from saying such declarative sentences. However, economic growth is driven by businesses. I am not very happy with this signal being sent to businesses: they should not make an effort to make low-paid jobs more valuable and thus pay the workers' wages. There's been a lot of talk about car tax here. I was wondering what it would be like for the government coalition to come up with such a thing, even though it was seemingly delayed. But then I realized very well that if you look at the Minister's own car park and also at the Riigikogu car park, they are not very concerned that the same person who buys cars in this niche will have to pay ten or more percent each time the change costs 3000 euros. Through the change of ownership of a couple, the owner's cost of buying a car is almost equivalent. I therefore miss the most in terms of budgetary changes that there are no measures that trigger economic-structural change. The simplest and most comfortable way of resisting has been taken. In fact, experts and psychologists also say: in order for a person to feel the best about himself, he must be given money. But the fact that the person to whom the money is given feels good is very shortsighted. The thing is, if we give a man a fish today, he'll probably have eaten that fish in about a week, but he still doesn't have a hook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U515	The next negotiator is Kalle Palling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U516	Mr President, thank you very much. Honourable Helmen, Kersti, Toomas, Igor, Keit, Urmas, Andres, Taavi and managers, and all good helpers! That is how many of us are in this very important bill here in the Riigikogu, not in the very late hours of the evening. If the Minister of Finance spoke long before about the fact that this tax cluster has a major or even greater impact than the activities of the previous government, then he must be accepted that these activities have a greater long-term impact, unfortunately a negative impact. Let this be signalled by the first concessions to the opposition's pressure to give up the car tax and the rumors that the gas excise duty and its increase, which were planned, are either intended to be postponed or reviewed. However, I would like to talk about the sharing economy, one of my favourite subjects. If car tax serves environmental objectives, according to many coalition politicians, I believe that a collaborative economy, a car, as a more efficient use of resources, would be a much more sensible alternative. 26 members of the Riigikogu prepared the draft law regulating this area already this spring. Unfortunately, we have to admit that there has not been too much support for our innovative proposal in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, which is why we have not been able to process it at a faster, reasonable pace. I think, in view of the future, that innovation will simply run away from legislation when we analyse all things for so long. If you come back to the tax community we are discussing today, perhaps things have been too under-analyzed, because they already have to be taken back. However, in order to achieve environmental objectives, this hall has provided one very sensible alternative for the transport sector, and this is the distribution of transport. I would really advise the government to consider, instead of car tax, further promotion of driving distribution, for example, in the public sector. Why would a state car fleet pay car tax on public cars if it were possible to use the distribution of digital platforms on a wider scale? This would be more cost-effective for the country and would also give additional service to a large number of people throughout Estonia. Speaking of figures, this spring the University of Tallinn carried out a study. More than 90% of the people questioned replied that they would be prepared to use the driving-sharing service. Almost half said that they might consider giving up their family's second car. However, a third would be willing to offer the service itself. So imagine what a good result or, let's say, environmental efficiency would come if half of the families gave up their family's other car, because driving is much more affordable. Can I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U517	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U518	Thank you very much. Another issue I would like to address is the reversal of the VAT differentiation of accommodation establishments. Even the tourist accommodation companies themselves have drawn attention to this. As the tax change was notified so late, a very large number of tourist accommodation operators had already calculated the VAT increase proposed by the previous government in their pricing policy and it is no longer possible to reverse it. I don't even know how to treat it in the country's view, either as some kind of compensation, as a reward, or as a gift. Time will tell. Once again, we met with housing companies' umbrella organisations already in the summer to find a solution for regulating platforms such as Airbnb and Booking.com in Estonia, through which private individuals can effectively rent out their empty apartment. By the way, these providers pay 20% VAT on their intermediary services in Estonia. Anyone who rents out their apartment will have to pay income tax on it, which is 20%. So the accommodations will continue to be in a much better position in the future. On this point too, the new government would rather have an open mind and recommend that we see how the future can be brought here more quickly into the lawroom. Thirdly, I would like to talk about the distinction between energy-intensive productions, which have actually been the subject of discussions for years. Solutions have been proposed, but there are no decisions, because one of the coalition partners of the previous government, as well as of the current government, the Social Democrats, has said that money must be found in the state budget to compensate for this distinction, but where the money comes from to the state budget, they have not been able to say that. So once again, since so many years have been on the subject and, in the meantime, at the time of the announcement of the new coalition agreement, almost 20% of gas excise duties have been rising a year, a large number of investors are probably already losing hope for Estonia. Such a fickle mind in a government where one hand doesn't know what the other one is doing scares investors away. Too long analyses of how we could and how we should attract investment here will probably not contribute to the future. Nice plans, slogans from this talking board may sound attractive, but they're probably not enough for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U519	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U520	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We have to admit that today we are facing an exceptionally unsuccessful draft. I am humanly trying to understand the will of the government that has taken office to make vigorous changes. However, a quite large number of chaotic, aimless steps have come out, which, by summing up, tend to turn on much of what is very good in the Estonian tax system. I would remind the listeners that in three years in a row the OECD has been highly valued in international comparison that the Estonian tax system is the most competitive in the world. By attacking such a tax system with an ax, and in this case we see its vital proofs, it can do a great deal of harm to the future prospects of Estonian companies as well as to the income and security of Estonian people. I will first talk about the substance of the bill. For the first time in Estonia's history after the restoration of independence, labour tax will be increased. A uniform income tax was introduced in Estonia in 1994. From there until 2003, income tax and social tax rates were in place and labour taxes have been reduced almost every year since 2004. This was to continue in 2017 and 2018 according to the plans of the previous government. The current law says that social tax will fall from 33% to 32%. I agree with the criticism that one percentage is not much, because of course it could fall even more, but it is a fundamental question whether labour taxes are in decline in Estonia or in an upward trend. This downward trend, which has so far been, since 2004, is being broken by this specific bill 302, and that is very bad. Secondly, de facto, the Estonian income tax system receives degrees with this draft. The Estonian Centre Party has been wishing since the 90s that it is clear and understandable the level of taxation for the servants of higher wages. As long as the Centre Party has supported it, the Reform Party has resisted it, often with the Fatherland or Res Publica or also with the IRL. But now, isn't it beautifully paradoxical? It is for various reasons that the Minister of IRL has been forced to justify that there is nothing left of Estonia's uniform tax system and we are creating steps. The Minister of Finance, who could be well aware of taxes, cannot even answer the question of Mr Pentus-Rosimilnus as to the amount of the income tax-free minimum at a particular salary number and will be indebted to respond. If we look at the minor changes that the government is planning, and each of which, separately, can say, does not turn the world upside down, I would dare to say that, as a whole, such tax increases are essentially punishing everyone in Estonian society. Some examples. First of all, the sharp rise in gas excise duty greatly penalises all thousands of people who have gas heating at home. Secondly, bank tax exclusively penalises all those who are customers of banks. This is particularly painful for home borrowers because it can be quite certain that it is not the banks who pay for their profits, but it is the home borrowers who pay for it when the largest banking customers pay for it. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U521	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U522	Thank you. A car tax that colleagues have been talking about here for a long time. It is basically punishing anyone who owns a car or wants to acquire a car. I very much agree with those who have said in the past that such a registration fee, whether it is kilowatt-based or CO2 emissions-based, is not in any way correlated with actual carbon dioxide emissions. Carbon dioxide emissions largely depend on two things: how much the car is driven and what the car engine is. The best anti-carbon tax is, in fact, fuel excise duty. But, oh, wonder, they'd rather not raise that tax, but they're asking a lot of questions, repeating it in the form of a car tax. Come on, sweeter. This is not a soda tax, as they are trying to make an impression. Instead, it penalises not only the Estonian food industry and its competitive position, but also all families who drink juice, for example. There is also sugar in juice and it will also be subject to tax in the future. So if you add up all the changes, you don't have to be a very strong mathematician to understand: these are changes that are harmful to very many Estonian families. Now the uniform. I rarely speak from a technical point of view on important draft laws, but in this case there is no way to get over it or around it. I would remind you that during the previous Government of the Republic, a law was passed in this Parliament which says that tax changes must be enforced at least six months before they become effective. I would like to draw your attention to this, dear colleagues, that this is a valid law. The Riigikogu would violate the current law by adopting the law that is being processed today. And not just that. This would negatively affect the investment security of Estonian companies and the confidence of all people and families in the future. If you create such a precedent that, with a few weeks' notice, you can essentially turn the tax system upside down, then show me the company that dares to make plans for the future in Estonia for 10 or 20 years! It is dangerous from a long perspective and will certainly hamper our future economic growth. The only way to get this bill fixed is to take it back. And I will be honest with you that if this is the concept of a government union that will save the engine from stagnation, then, forgive me, Estonia does not need such an engine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U523	Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U524	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna stand here tonight because that's the way it's gonna be. In general, I'm a person of action, and I've never loved a lot of chatter, nor in this Chamber. I have received answers to my questions in the corridors and certain things have been resolved quickly. Today, however, the situation has obviously changed. Maybe because I'm in the opposition now, and my old buddies don't want to give answers so well anymore. I asked them in this room, but I still couldn't. I must therefore try to share my concerns here. Maybe it all gets a little further and it's not just in my thoughts and questions, and maybe I can answer my questioners. This cluster may have been brought before us so we can miss the details. In fact, this bill is the hardest thing to do, I would say, the same low-paid people that they want to stand up for. Box the average people, take them out of one pocket and put them in another pocket. Figuratively speaking, it's like a little magic trick, so close your hands and your eyes, and I'll jerk you off, but at the same time you won't even notice if it's taken out of your pocket. I didn't get an explanation here before why two families on equal income would be treated differently in the future. Why does a family whose income from paid work amount to just over EUR 2 000 because two family members work receive a tax exemption of EUR 1 000? Another family with the same income, however, is not because one has dedicated himself to the family, while the other contributes more. Our problem is the ageing of the population. We wonder how to encourage young people to have a family, give birth, raise children. At the same time, the government sends a note that the home parent dedicated to the family is zero in the eyes of the country. And by means of a joint declaration, they will not receive the exemption because the other parent is too ambitious and the state thinks they will receive too much remuneration. This is where the time has come to mind when it was said that from each one according to his abilities and to each one according to his needs. But I think we have another country now. We have a free country. The word 'free' applies not only to the state, but also to the family and the individual, as well as to everyone's right and freedom to decide how to deliver and jointly earn and declare income in their families. What about making other promises? The tax refund for low-wage earners ends. May the earth be easy on him! No, it wasn't my favorite, but it had to be done because we were in the coalition with the IRL. Now they themselves will liquidate it, but they will speak loudly: good people, we promised, we gave. Now new things are promised. But they only gave us a year of what was promised in the long term. Now it will be taken away and something new will be promised by 2018. It is forgotten, however, that in the meantime, in 2017, the people will receive nothing. The low-wager does not receive a tax refund for 2017 and does not receive a tax exemption. In fact, 2018 will be taken out of people's pockets, and then passed on, with 10 euros. You have to stay honest! You have to tell me straight: in order for us to give you, we'll take it first or later. There must also be respect for income tax. I mean, it's all fair to say what's in there to deny sin. If it's said that we had a step before, then let's accept it as a step before, which is pretty much a step. But let's just say that now we have a 500-step. Actually, it's pretty nice. You can play company in the future. The family gathers... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U525	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U526	... the family gathers, and then goes into the game, we have, what degree do we step into, how many different steps have gathered in this room. In fact, it can be used to decorate the whole social night. Turning the ship in haste is not only a foolish act, it is also quite dangerous. But this has already been said by previous speakers, and I think that the speakers will also explain what this means for the country. However, I will give another example of pointless tripping, one pocket, and the other. Indeed, the future rise in social tax or, to put it mildly, the withdrawal. Three million are being taken away from local governments. That's the money they could have decided for themselves. Maybe it's gonna be a blur, so I'll give you an example of a little parish. I was told that next year they would have EUR 5 000, which they could decide for themselves. Looks like a little money, but it had an inclusive budget of EUR 5,000 this year, and next year it could have been 10,000. But no, they won't get that chance. Instead, money is promised to them, but a simple calculation shows that although they gain a little bit more, all the money they are given has already been told where to put it. At the same time, perhaps in every municipality there is no need to raise the pay of, for example, kindergartens; some have already done so. Therefore, it is not certain that this rural municipality will receive so much money. Your decision-making will be taken away, and I don't know what else will be done. In fact, there are so many questions to which there are no answers. Therefore, I cannot in any way vote in favour of this bunch or agree with all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U527	Please, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U528	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in this Chamber or listening to all this talk somewhere behind a light blue screen! I'll start with the uniform. My colleague in the garment has already said a little bit about the form, but I think it still needs to be clarified. However, I will also come back to what I asked the Minister for Finance about this draft, whether he really understands how it has happened and whether he supports the way things have been done. As we have heard, there was no answer, it was a master class of demagogy. Okay. But we have agreed in this Chamber some principles on how we deal with the drafts. The management board of the Riigikogu has even written these principles into the guidance of good practice in the processing of draft laws, a surprise, a surprise! More than four years ago, four and a half years ago. If we take up the original text of the draft, it provides that the employer should be able to reimburse, exempt from tax, fixed costs to promote the health of the worker, which should result in a reduction in the number of sick days for workers. That was the original purpose. Now we have welded gas excise and everything we have tried to name in many ways, such as tax reform. But the fact is that changing the tax system so quickly means a very, very heavy burden on businesses. In view of the time that Riigikogu members have had to study this bill, I have to admit that although I have read quite a lot, I have not been able to get into all the nuances, because there was quite a few time. Besides, the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu always added something new to it. There was also a constant change in the messages of one day was a car tax, then there was no car tax, then there were joint declarations, now there are no more joint declarations. It's very hard to understand everything. But as a lawyer, I don't think it's right for a gram of time how this bill has been dealt with. If you're asking if the Government of the Republic can do stupid things, I'll say yes, it can. Can the Government of the Republic violate the law given before the Riigikogu? No, you can't. That is one important principle of separation of powers. The authorities are divorced. If Parliament has stated in advance in the Tax Administration Act what are the standards of conduct, these must be respected. The rules have not been respected in this draft. And, as I said, the rules governing the procedure of the draft law that the Board of the Riigikogu has issued have not been respected. If you ask if the government can propose to amend the law, of course it can. Can a legislative amendment involve a very large amount of fundamental changes? Of course you can. But there are rules for processing. I'm sorry! I'll ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U529	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U530	We have agreed on a code of good legislative regulation and it is supervised by the Ministry of Justice. While discussing another subject at the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs yesterday, I saw the sadness in the eyes of the officials of the Ministry of Justice that they had to justify such a legal failure, even legal filth, if you could say so. It is still outrageous how all the legislation here before Christmas will be turned on its head in a few weeks. Then, in the future, it will be very good to say again that you see, you did so. Why don't you go explain again that you can't do that? It's a bad practice. And that's the worst part about it. But, of course, the content, too. I am sure my colleagues are still talking a lot about the substance, but I am very, very concerned about what has been done with this draft from a legislative point of view, and that we are simply pounding into the mud the principles that we have agreed ourselves and which the great Chamber of Parliament has given to the Government of the Republic. Until then, there is no proper impact assessment. We looked at 15 pages of impact assessment, most of which are tables. Well, what kind of impact assessment is that? Ladies and gentlemen, It has been very awful to deal with this draft. It also seems that it is so horrifying for the coalition itself that no one even wants to deal with it in this Chamber or listen to what it has to say. It is worth thinking that if you go to change some agreed rules, one day they might hit you as a boomerang. I believe that no one in this Chamber, no party would want to see that the principles that we have agreed jointly are simply not respected. Well, that's one of the reasons why we're sitting here so long today. But, of course, the main reason why we are here is that the coalition must be given an understanding and knowledge that the proposed amendments are essentially incorrect. In our opinion, they violate the principle of legitimate expectations and create a new heavy burden for Estonian entrepreneurs, and not just for them. I heard it would take EUR 15 million to implement these changes. 15 million! I'd like to talk for a while, but look, eight minutes was up. I respect the rules agreed in Parliament, do not pass them, and I hope that this draft will either be withdrawn or that its second reading will be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U531	The chair commends you for your accuracy. The next negotiator is Kersti Sarapuu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U532	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that a little something positive should also be brought between the great criticisms. After all, we remember how we only recently adopted a cluster bill to change the budget here, and we also saw how we did the night sittings, protesting against the measures that were then used under the leadership of the Reform Party. I think, in this situation, we've been acting, I'd say, just coming to meet people. The expectations of the Estonian people for the new government are high and very many of the changes to the budget will benefit. The biggest change concerns about 85% of employees who will have much more money available on payday. From 2018, the income tax-free minimum will rise from the current EUR 170 to EUR 500, while the income tax rate will not change. Analysts have calculated that, thanks to this step, people earning up to 1200 euros a month will have 62 euros more. This makes an additional annual income of EUR 744, which people are most likely to use to buy food and consumer goods, which in turn has a positive effect on the local economy. The new calculation will also replace the additional income tax exemption for pensions and the current reimbursement of low-wage earners, as they will remain within the tax-free threshold in the future. Pensioners who are entitled to the benefit of a living pensioner can be calm because no one is going to take away the EUR 115 promised from them, which has been guaranteed by the state. Death grants will be restored, which have been abolished during the 2009 budget cuts. A total funeral allowance of EUR 280 will be paid regardless of someone's income, for which the state will allocate money specifically to local governments. A number of changes await parents. In order to have more children in Estonia, the support of a family rich in children is increased from 100 euros to 300 euros per month, from 200 euros to 300 euros from the third child and from 370 to 400 children from the seventh. The student loan for the parents of a child with severe disability shall be cancelled. The good news is that it is still possible to make joint tax returns. The lack of young teachers is a major problem in the Estonian education system. University graduates have no interest in going to work at school because the teacher's salary is not attractive. Coalition parties have taken the utmost care to raise teachers' salaries to 120% of the national average wage, such as those suitable for graduate workers. The necessary amendments to this end shall be made gradually. The current draft budget, or rather the amendments, already allocates additional resources to the increase in teachers' salaries, while also supporting the increase in the pay of kindergarten teachers. The abolition of the 0.5% reduction in the social tax rate does not disturb businesses, as the revenue from it would be marginal, but the addition of EUR 41 million to the sickness fund is much more gratifying, because it affects our people most directly. The exclusion of special preferential corporate tax on the health promotion costs offered to their employees makes it possible to offer these opportunities for EUR 400 per employee per year, which is EUR 100 per quarter. There has been a significant change in the attitude towards agriculture and paying the support needed to survive the farmers' crisis. The plan is to restore the transitional support, which will be paid EUR 19.9 million next year. From next year, crisis aid funds will also be increased by EUR 0.5 million, allowing support for both breeding and pig farming. For tourism companies, the positive news is that the planned increase in VAT for accommodation establishments will be avoided in the coming year. Tourism companies have made numerous appeals so that tax increases do not occur. It can now finally be said that this will not happen, and the tourism sector will not have to fear that their position will be undermined by the state in already harsh conditions of competition. Finally, the investments included in the amendments proposed by all the political groups will support regional projects amounting to EUR 4.1 million. There are other changes that contribute to prosperity, but even the above should be sufficient justification for supporting the Bill 302 at today's reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U533	Maris Lauri will continue the debate on the draft provisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U534	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Taxes have a dual effect: fiscal impact and an impact that takes people's behaviour into account. Good monetary policy takes account of both. There are very clear, logical procedures and methods to account for both impacts and their interaction. We actually have them legalized. Firstly, there is certainly a consultation of stakeholders with people who come into contact with specific topics. But there will also be very in-depth impact assessments. I am just calling for impact analyses, not just fiscal calculations, which eventually came to us, but are very short, superficial, i.e. not all the calculations are visible in them. So we can say that, formally, some calculations have come up with this draft, but they are not impact analyses. As the previous questions and answers revealed, an analysis has not been carried out in one place or another. It is certainly difficult to carry out an analysis, especially in the long term. But if they don't, it's impossible to judge what could happen. I am referring here to the most colourful example of what happened to this very draft, or rather to the tax cluster that was grafted into this draft, namely the thing that happened with the car tax. At first, it was mentioned that there would be a registration fee for cars. People who have had some contact with taxation and its rules know that in the European Union, only new cars are allowed to be charged. So I immediately asked in my head if they really wanted to make so much money just by registering cars for the first time. It felt like science fiction. It soon became clear that we will also take into account re-registrations, i.e. the introduction of second-hand cars. Then someone remembered that, oh, the rules of the European Union do not allow this. That's when I thought I'd make a transaction tax. It was signed with the state fee. But this, too, created the problems of the state fee must be cost-based and so on. I guess the noise got big enough, so at least they gave it up. The next year's dividend payment from Eesti Energia was also taken, for which questions have already been raised. A promise was made that it would be temporary and soon come back. To be honest, I don't know how this is possible because, as I said, there are rules that we can't break. Increase in tax-free income. It's a good thing there's an increase in tax-free income. But the process is too fast, too steep. To be honest, this level is also not justified by anything. They just say it's a nice round number. I understand that this is exactly what this EUR 500 has been taken from. I am not going to talk at length about this bizarre escalation and reduction, which is obviously done to compensate, on the one hand, for the deficit caused by the sharp rise in the exemption and, on the other hand, to give two partners the opportunity to say that we still have progressive income tax. If a proper impact analysis had been carried out, we would have understood what was to come. The low-wagers will get their profits for a while, but not next year. Believe me, most people think that they will receive this EUR 500 tax exemption next year, not next year. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U535	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U536	This means that you will not be raised for a while. We're prolonging a lot of people's time trapped in low wages. However, Estonia's interest has always been to increase added value. There is a need to increase the number of jobs that create greater added value, which means that wages are also higher. Contrary to what has been said for many years, however, the tax burden on higher-paid workers and the overall tax burden on labour should be lowered, it has been done to punish the higher-paid for earning more. All right. The amount that a high-wage worker loses may not be very large at first glance, but it is still significant when taken together. However, if a good entrepreneur sees the net income of his employee being reduced due to tax policy, he will try to compensate for it. He raises his salary so that the net income remains the same. This means that gross wages will increase. This, in turn, means that the amount of social tax will increase and will increase more because social tax will rise, the reduction will be canceled. Thus, the opposite of what all economic operators and various organisations, institutions and analysts have recommended is repeated. For at least a few years, we will ensure that we remain in a low-value-added economy. But, in fact, we need to move towards greater added value. This would have become clear if a proper and thorough impact analysis had been carried out. Unfortunately, they didn't. I would also like to point out that next year we will be excluded from this strange tax exemption for low-wage earners. Thank God! But the increase in tax-free income will only come in 2018. Only EUR 10 will be added next year, as the tax-free minimum will be EUR 180 per month. So where's the discount that was promised to the low-paid next year? I think that very many of them are deeply disappointed. But yes, it is fortunately no longer the opposition, but the present government. So they're trying to explain what really happened. I wish the government would have thought before he did anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U537	Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U538	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, there are few people in the Chamber and everyone who listens! The story of raising children is that one golden principle must be explained at some age: the fact that others also do is a very bad reason. At some age, you're probably gonna understand that too. I guess it's instinct inside of a human being. In the case of the Riigikogu, the top level of politics is not a kindergarten, but yet we see childish behaviour on the current topic at least in two ways, on two levels. The first is the question of how much of the former cluster bill from 2015, which the government of Taavi Clothes brought here, better than the cluster proposal that we are now dealing with and which was originally intended to be attached to another law. Yes, it can be said that the current cluster proposal is even worse. At the time, however, the opportunity for Riigikogu members to vote on amendments was also cancelled. After all, there was one motive that we heard from Mr Stalnukhin several times. Just a moment ago, I was watching The Forum from the corner of my eye, where Kadri Simson said it wasn't that bad of a cluster bill, maybe the uniform is a little bad, but the things we're doing are good. Not all good! There is both good and bad together, but it makes the form even worse. The other way around, another TV broadcast. I saw Mr Holsmer, who said to the reporter's question, "Listen, it used to be that the Reform Party didn't agree with the staggering tactics and the night sessions, "Yes, it is true! But now we agree. " Again, the argument that others do too is in no way convincing. That reminds me of the Buddhist wise saying that it is karma. This is probably the karma of the Central Party, which the Reform Party is wearing, having now taken up opposition, and this is the karma of the Reform Party, which the Central Party is wearing in the government. Together, you have generally screwed up Estonian political culture, so this is how it is. Now, as I said, there are both positive and negative elements here. As regards the exclusion of VAT on accommodation establishments, I do not agree with the speakers of Kalle Palling and the other parties of the Reform Party. I think it makes sense to cancel the VAT amendment. One argument that has not yet sounded at all is that the proposed introduction of a different tax rate, i.e. 14%, is a separate tax distinction. That doesn't make any sense. Let's call it off. It is good for rural tourism and for the smaller players we have to think about. It seems reasonable to increase the excise duty on heavy fuel oil. Stopping the increase in excise duty on diesel reduces border trade in the car sector. The increase in gas excise duty is likely to have effects that are not expected. The fact that we are going to look for another tax distinction for some of the companies is in no way convincing. A cold shower, of course, had the effect of canceling the joint declarations. We are honest that this, even if a step back is taken, will no longer materialise. The increase in the tax-free minimum is probably good. However, the fact that such complex graduated income tax is applied is in no way reasonable. In addition, things are called a name that does not actually belong to it, such as progressive income tax, which is not progressive income tax. I'm asking for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U539	Please, a little more, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U540	Finally, the big question is why we are currently dealing with the changes that the government is planning for 2018. I very much agree with the previous speaker, Mr Lauri, who obviously knows this matter better than most in this Chamber. There's no impact analysis. Then why are we in a hurry? In no way does it seem convincing that in three days the whole tax package was completed and that is how the coalition talks are done. I'm sure we need to take more time. That's actually proof of that kind of bouncing. I guess it's a good thing they took a step back with the car tax. You shouldn't be so hasty about these things when you have time. You promised not to change your own wisdom, but to listen to interest groups, opposition and everyone. I'm not listening, I'm not listening! Finally. I generally do not trust parties that have not managed to organise their own finances in the management of public finances. I mean both the Centre Party and the IRL. My question to the Minister of Finance may have seemed spiteful, but I'm serious. Who, then, is responsible for the fact that 1.7 million have been spent on an application that is temporary, lasting only one year? It was lame from the start, that's right. And the topic of party funding, which is immoral, is connected to it. Somehow someone should be responsible, but there is no responsibility. Probably, I predict, we will inevitably come back to this same tax package, rather its consequences and the need for repair. One has to shake the ashes on one's head, for it is not practical to do such serious things at this rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U541	The negotiations will continue with Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U542	Thank you, Mr President. In eight minutes, maybe I can talk it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U543	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U544	I mean, first the thesis is presented and then the proof follows. The behaviour of the current government poses a security threat. It's obvious! Now I'm going to be more specific. The Moscow Treaty and all that fine! Are you paying attention to what's going on? We are currently in an unproclaimed state of emergency, in other words, we are acting like a crisis. We will adopt the bilingual law in legal aid and we will continue to develop it because it is linked to the budget. We're gonna pull a bull for no, I mean, they're gonna make tax mistakes too. Well, marriage. We're against marriage, too, in front of or behind my marriage! Cars, we're raising excise duty. That's right, ride the horse! Let's have a fire on the gas! But why is it all here at once? The funniest story is, by the way, that Ratas and others don't take themselves seriously. Then you watch The Forum. Kadri Samson has this face, you know... God, everything works! But the rest of the government is laughing. Tonight's liver, tomorrow's off, tomorrow's this and the other. You want it, we'll take it. What kind of expert are you talking about?? They don't even listen to themselves. Expert?! We've been accused that this is where the Reform Party did it and the other, we're guilty. All right! Yeah, we made a bunch. I'll remind you of the terms. There was an economic crisis, Lehman, and then things followed. I have a lot to discuss with Andrus Ansip about tax matters in the future, but Andrus Ansip decided and made what was necessary. There was a crisis in the country, there was no money. There was a crisis in the world, and no one knew how it would end. It was an emergency. What is the current emergency situation? There's one minister for two weeks, but two ministers don't fit in one floor, and then there's a division, who's more economic than the other. Yeah, it's a crisis. But it's a relationship crisis, it's a human crisis. When people don't get along or know how to do everything, it's not a crisis, it's normal. There are always doers, and there are always not so much doers. Some people get out, others get screwed up, it's a normal life, it's not an emergency. If I'm talking about a security threat right now, look, all right, the boy's in the herd screaming, "The Wolf is coming! The wolf is coming! ' But there won't really be a wolf. Screams twice, there won't be a wolf again. Third time the wolf comes, but people don't believe anymore. If today the government is ahead of the case, if the other one is bouncing off with extraordinaryness, then I am very sorry! After the crisis really comes, do you still believe in this government? If we don't believe him now, as the Russians say, 'B razvedku pasol bye? ', then no! Not because people are bad, but because they have no sense of danger. They themselves do not understand that they are violating the normal functioning of the state. Extraordinary what?! We can start at 9:00. It's lunch break from one to two, you work like a gentleman, you shave, you wash yourself, you tell the lights where you left off. Look at this budget debate, by the way, one moment disappears. Sven Sester is very romantic, he spoke very nicely, but the budget is primarily a spiritual, intellectual, academic effort. Hey, how many academic answers did you hear today? If you want, I swear to you, I was looking at another place in the Forum. And if you find that Kadri Simson, as has already been said, spoke a very academic story, you're wrong. No, I didn't! My point is, in short, as follows. Estonia also works normally without emergency situations. Chezychina nam ne nuzna, we're working normally. The words 'extraordinary', 'cobar', and so on, we leave them in the situations where they really are. We don't blame ourselves into this kind of thing. By the way, there's one thing I have to confess to, this hasn't happened to me in a long time. I asked Sester a question, and Nestor, the old wolf, of course, noticed. There we go. Why? But because this spiritual climate, which is being imposed here, is that even a very sane person like me can be confused for a moment. No wonder. In short, there is absolutely no justification for this cluster proposal, there is nothing extraordinary. And I think the numerous auditorium here agrees: in Estonia, everything is broadly in order so well that even the current government cannot ruin it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U545	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U546	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U547	Just in case, I'll ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U548	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, it is quite natural that when a new power union arrives, it must want to start implementing its policies. But as natural as it seems to me, it could also be that the policy that the coalition wants to implement is clear and understandable to the government itself, and that is what they want and can explain. But, unfortunately, I am probably not overreacting when I say that there has never been such a confusion and quite a stopover in the field of Estonian taxation before. First, the government throws out an idea or a promise, information about a powerful tax increase. Then, a little while later, they say maybe this tax increase won't come that strong. Maybe we'll do a little less forceful. A little shy or blushing is trying to hide the transition to progressive taxation of earned income behind other labels. However, completely contradictory answers are given to questions as to why and how exactly will the taxation of families change. Within this whole mess, however, I think the most important issue is completely unanswered. The Minister for Finance, who is pushing for change, has not said how everything that is before us contributes to economic development. How does this help to create the smart jobs that we have long been looking for in Estonia, and precisely those that create greater added value? Unfortunately, I have to say today that neither the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs nor the Minister for Finance have been able to provide substantive or concrete answers to our questions here before Parliament. Thus, the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs stated at the outset that nothing would change much in the submission of joint declarations by spouses. After all, it would be very nice in itself, only if I look at the amendments tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself, it says that there will be no future transfer of tax-free income to another spouse. The same will continue to apply to voluntary pension insurance contributions and charitable contributions. The question is, how is it? One thing's for sure: it's a big mess. In the same way, I tried to get a lot of answers to us today from the Minister for Finance to know what will be in the future, after pushing through the tax increase and the progressive tax bill, the tax-free rate, for example, for people earning EUR 1350. The current simple system will probably allow each of us in this Chamber to answer this question about the current situation. This will certainly enable the Minister of Finance to answer. But the new system will be so complex and confusing that the Minister of Finance could not answer to me until the end, or essentially to colleagues who repeated the same question. Why? Because once again, it has to be said that the confusion is so great. My colleagues have already spoken about the form of this bill on the board today, and I am not going to repeat it. To be honest, it is at least as important for me not to accept the content of the amendments alongside this totally flawed form. This bill, which is being pushed through, makes taxation of income in Estonia cumbersome, confusing and opaque. Such changes will encourage the payment and earning of lower wages, not higher ones, in the future, but cannot be supported by the Reform Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U549	Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U550	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the practice of the Riigikogu, there has so far been no such extensive and striking violation of current law and of the procedural rules of the draft law approved by the Board of the Riigikogu and of the entire parliamentary procedure once we have seen this draft. Coordination circles, expertise and impact assessments were not carried out. When they came late, after the Committee on Monetary Affairs had already made its decision, they came in such a way that they did not cover everything and still did not provide answers and were hurriedly incomplete. No interest groups were involved. In response to public disapproval and opposition criticism, an urgent and apparent involvement of interest groups was organised, but only after the decisions had already been taken and the votes in the Committee on Monetary Affairs had taken place. By the way, the decisions of the Supreme Court in recent years have highlighted the importance of legal certainty and the legal binding nature of promises. It is very likely that this form of procedure and adoption of this draft will have legal consequences. The reason for this is to refer to an earlier Supreme Court ruling, which has declared an increase in the environmental fee, which has been premeditated and fixed in time, to be unconstitutional. We heard today from the Minister of Finance that the Ministry has begun to analyse this matter. I hope that they will also draw legal conclusions. As far as the substance of the draft is concerned, it has become increasingly clear that the introduction of a graduated tax system will take back the additional euros promised to people with increased excise duties and other tax increases, with new taxes. Gas duty alone raises domestic costs to 100,000 places of consumption. According to the gas union, after an increase in gas excise duty, heat will increase by 20% in four years. Taxpayers will also be refunded by abolishing the right to transfer tax-free minimums from one spouse to another by means of joint declarations. This is, by the way, a very large amount of money compared to the small amount that was now allowed back in the meantime. Not to mention, as we know, car tax, bank tax and maybe something else will come on the table again next year. What happened around the joint declarations was, of course, one of the most disturbing in this procedure. So far, we have realised that the joint income tax return comes from the logic of the current family law, because the common property of spouses cannot disappear. But these values and legal principles are being passed over by the unintelligible family policy of the new power union. It is clear that the income tax system gets very complicated, many things are no longer the way people are used to when they make changes. It's going to be harder for accountants, paychecks, IRS employees. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U551	In this respect, it is a significant fact that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has voted on an amendment to the budget for the following year, which will allocate EUR 15 million to the state budget for the following year for additional tax changes, i.e. amendments to the Income Tax Act. The additional cost is also the restructuring of the previous system of low-paid income tax refunds. All of this costs the taxpayer EUR 15 million. This is additional bureaucracy. I'm pretty sure that's why the e-Tax innovations that were planned earlier will be delayed. The Minister of Finance who presented us here today did not answer the question of how much the tax burden will increase next year as a result of these changes. I asked him three times, since Question Time, but he didn't answer the question. In Question Time, he even said that the tax burden would fall. Fortunately, today's news came from the BNS that according to the Ministry of Finance, the tax burden will increase to 35% next year and 35.8% in 2018. By the way, this is the biggest tax burden of all time; this has never been the case in Estonia before. It is not known from any country's practice that an increase in the tax burden would boost the economy and boost economic growth, not to mention that the competitiveness of our companies will be set back. It is certain that Estonia will also suffer from market shares in export markets, and the management of the entire tax system will become more costly and more difficult for the taxpayer. Indeed, I would not like to see these changes entering into force in the law. We will certainly be voting against this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U552	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U553	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U554	Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of ideas have already been heard, but since there are a lot of problems, there are still some things that we need to talk about. I think it's important to read them later on in the case files. Firstly, of course, this whole process has been a rotten one, even to say politely. We all remember the great words of a new policy, a new political culture that was spoken of when the new government took office. In fact, the only new thing is that there has never been a violation of such a push-through tactic, of all the procedures and good practices. There is no crisis at the moment, there is no major societal problem that should be pushed through with such a political culture. We hope that the Chancellor of Justice, the President and the Supreme Court will make their fair assessment of whether the direction chosen by the new coalition is correct and whether it is in line with our customs and other laws. We understand, of course, that today's sitting and the drafts we are discussing are a tool and an introduction to the adoption of the state budget. The biggest break is likely to be on our tables next week, and that is that the budgetary balance principle will be thrown into the trash bin. Our kind of Nordic, I would say, conservative fiscal policy of peasant wisdom will be in history. Let's start running a loose fiscal policy. Although Excel does, but this profit side of Excel isn't very interested in the new coalition. More like spending, giving gifts to individual stakeholders and lobby groups. We see how we are going to spend instead of dealing with sustainable solutions. So in those years, in 2020 and later, at a time when our European Union money is going down and we should start investing in our tax revenues and basic costs will be covered by additional loan payments. I would like to see these examples, successful examples from Europe, how many countries have managed to emerge from debt slavery, from the downward spiral. Obviously, we are going to make very wrong choices at the expense of our children and our future. A few more keywords. In any case, we will soon also abandon the principle that the Estonian tax system is simple, understandable, transparent and ensures a level playing field, rather than equalising everyone with force. We would have had a reason to stick to the current system, to improve it, not to change direction. The OECD, a club of rich and wise countries in the world, has considered our tax system to be the most competitive in the world, I think it is not an arbitrary assessment, but with these steps we will certainly lose our competitiveness. Any exceptions are ineffective, quite corruption sensitive and expensive. Often, the effect that is first permitted populistly is not achieved. You might find a little joy in delaying car tax. But I'm afraid the pleasure will be fleeting, he'll be here sooner or later, because there's holes in Excel. The confusion around car tax and the rhetorical game of hide-and-seek, as if it were a matter other than the liver, illustrates the whole process, where there are many mistakes made in a hurry, overhead, without thinking about the details. That's how these things fail. I am quite convinced that there are similar mistakes on other points that are being forced through today, and we will be patching them up in the near future. This is not a sensible policy way. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U555	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U556	I am absolutely convinced that we should have gone on with the fall in social tax rather than raising it. This is a problem for our businesses; it is a problem for our competitiveness, especially in attracting new and cost-effective jobs, in attracting new investments here. The lowering of labour taxes in itself is positive, the raising of the tax-free minimum is also positive, but we are dealing with the wrong problem. Nobody really wants to work 500 euros. People want to get 1,500 euros or 2,000 euros. We must encourage these changes in the tax system that contribute to the structural change of our economy. So, unfortunately, let's put a stop to this right now. We should have gone to at least 30% with a social tax cut, looking for opportunities to do so. But maybe another time. Of course, it is sad and unexpected that it is the IRL that imposes progressive income tax. People who work harder work harder, maybe two jobs to feed their families, we'll start collecting more taxes. This does not motivate anyone, not to mention that the system itself is so complex that no one is able to calculate exactly what this tax burden is going to be. The system is super expensive, 15 million. At the same time, we are going to cut down on the government's Excelit system, probably in the near future, if we believe in the government's Excelit system of parental benefits to find 10 million. Let's take 10 million out of there, hit hard on family confidence, at the same time making some technical solutions for introducing a highly complex tax model. Stupid use of money! The general mentality is, of course, what we know about alcohol, both in the form of excise duties and regulations, that the state trusts its people less. The coalition believes that the state, officials and politicians are smarter in their choices and that the state is smarter than people in its decisions. Freedom is less, decision-making is less, we trust our own people less. That's sad. And, of course, as Aivar Sõerd has already mentioned, the increase in the tax burden. It is very clear that if there is a left-wing government, there will be an increase in the tax burden. It's not surprising, but it's sad. It is also very sad that the impact of not reducing social tax on the budgets of local governments is also three million. We have tried to find additional revenue for the municipalities, to look for it under the stones and wherever, to get a relatively cold reaction from the Minister of Finance. Now, with this proposal, municipalities are losing money again. In the same way, other public employees who had to grow their payroll had to lose money, such as health workers, teachers, rescue workers. So bad choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U557	Remo Holsmer will continue the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U558	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank and welcome Minister of Finance Sven Sester, who just left the cafe, but before a long day, he held a long day and answered all the questions of the ambassadors. I think it is very positive that he did so here, even though at the beginning he was a little bit, say, less ambitious, wishing to respond to us in just a few decades, and that the Riigikogu's board allowed for this format. Now to the bill. I would separate two things: content and form. First of all, the contents. The draft, the original idea of which was to exempt workers' healthcare-related businesses from the special preferential tax, has now become a draft which seeks to raise social tax by a fifth of the current legislation, as well as the excise duty on gas for private customers, and to introduce a progressive tax on income. These three objectives, of course, can be government policies, it is reasonable to debate them, and the majority of Parliament will decide whether to implement them. I'm not gonna argue with that. I disagree, but I do not dispute the content of such a policy. However, I shall challenge the form in which this bill has been dealt with. I mean, I don't think it's gonna take any criticism. I know that the President of the Riigikogu will come to speak next, and he will probably also give his assessment of the process of how Parliament has dealt with this draft. As I said, there may be differences in policy content and I disagree with everything, but the formal side is important in this case. To remind you of a correspondence I would like to read to you, which I sent to Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis and which, in many ways, focuses on form. I sent him a letter asking for an assessment of the amendments to the entire bill and the shortened deadlines that the Committee on Monetary Affairs and also the Board of the Riigikogu have set. I wrote that the Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 28 September and its first reading was completed on 19 October 2016. The original thought, however, was quite different than it is now. In fact, on 2 December 2016, the Minister of Finance Sven Sester presented to the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu a total of more than five amendments to the law that were intended to be included in this draft. On the evening of the same working day, at 19.17 p.m., a draft of all the relevant legislative amendments was sent to the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for inspection on a total of 37 pages. More than a week before the new amendments received, the Committee on Monetary Affairs had already proposed that the draft 302 be sent to second reading in the Chamber of the Riigikogu by 7 December. Discussions on the proposed amendments were ongoing at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 5 December and continued on 6 December. I referred to the debate and the procedural disagreements that we expressed in this Chamber on the agenda of last week's working week. All such hassle has been contrary to the instructions of the Riigikogu Executive Board itself and the drafting of good practice in handling the draft law of the Riigikogu. These are also contrary to the Riigikogu's law on the rules of procedure and rules of procedure, and the processing of the draft is a reasonable time taken from the members of the Riigikogu to examine tax changes and to shape the position. Even the last week has been as stormy as the beginning. The amendments are extensive and have a broad substantive impact. Similarly, the proposed changes have not passed the normal round of coordination within the Government of the Republic. There's a big difference. Once the sectoral tax laws have been amended, there is a prior coordination circle at the level of the Government of the Republic, impact analysis, involvement of different parties. Now the situation is that the Minister for Finance has simply tabled amendments to the Committee on Monetary Affairs without prior coordination. Similarly, no changes have been presented to business organisations. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U559	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U560	On 5 December 2016, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Employers' Confederation sent a letter to the Chairman of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, and the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, which also refers to the hasty and incorrect legislative process. I quote: 'We confirm that the materials relating to these tax changes have not yet been made available to the public, including business organisations. We therefore believe that the amendments referred to are intended to bring into the law without consultation of the parties and without undue delay, thus excluding the possibility for interested parties to defend their constitutional rights in the course of the amendment procedure. 'The letter sent by business organisations also refers to:'Failure to comply with the six-month principle set out in § 41 of the Tax Order Act is not justified by the need for the swift implementation of the Coalition Agreement. ' This is the main pingpong in this debate. Although the coalition claims to be awfully quick and the change of government is an excuse for breaking the law, I do not think that the change of government is an excuse for not complying with the law. Now I quote Ülle Madise's letter of reply, which he sent to the Committee on Finance of the Riigikogu. 'The substantial amendments to the draft law, including the various laws annexed to the draft proposal between the readings of the 302 SE and the extremely limited period of time left for their substantive processing, make it difficult for the democratic state to function as a prerequisite for the functioning of the parliamentary debate and are not likely to allow the necessary consideration to be given to the opinions of the interest groups or to carry out a high quality impact analysis. Such legislation has been condemned and the negative impact of the so-called cluster law on constitutional values and political culture has been criticised by the various Chancellors of Justice, including me in my annual review speech in September 2015 commenting on the outcome of the bubble tax package. Therefore, I repeat my position in principle here: this practice is unacceptable under normal circumstances, but special situations must be dealt with separately. ' Emergency situations, compelling reasons in law may be, for example, a natural disaster, a serious economic crisis, a war situation may be too dramatic, but it will certainly be covered. These are emergency situations. Now that we're looking out the window, these events don't seem to be happening. I'm about to get to the end with my uniforms, but I'll tell you what, it's actually a threat to the president. The President of the Republic should assess the debate in Parliament in the same way, provided that this draft passes through the third reading and is adopted after some time. I do call on him not to proclaim the law. Relevant references and justifications have already been read by the Chancellor of Justice. In conclusion, I call again on the Government to withdraw these amendments. Secondly, if this draft is adopted at third reading, I call on the President of the Republic not to declare this draft as a law. Thank you for your attention. One second left.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U561	Eiki Nestor will negotiate. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U562	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I didn't come here because there's no one better to take. I believe that this is my duty, for the simple reason that the MP, who used to be the first to use a computer in his room, prepared a bill on the basis of which the employer's expenditure on workers' health and sports was excluded from the special advantages, is me. This bill is written by me. True, it has been more than ten years now, but I still want to say that we are finally somewhere. In particular, I would like to congratulate the Commission on the two amendments it made during the debate on the draft in committee. One of these is that the costs of additional insurance for employees are included in the list where the employer can spend the money. The number of people affected by healthcare is certainly higher than paying off individual bills, because it is cheaper to secure than paying bills. I would also like to thank separately, sincerely and warmly, for the fact that a point was taken out of the draft tabled by the previous government, which I felt was the arrogance of these officials with regard to politicians and delegates who had to write long explanatory notes over the past ten years on why it is not appropriate for the employer's expenditure on the health of workers to be taken out of special advantages. The paragraph, which said that the law only applies for five years, was simply arrogance. But now, good friends, if there's anything to blame for this new government union, there's only one thing: they haven't had the time. Look, if I hadn't been here for as long as I was in the opposition and in the coalition, and I saw all this, and I apologize, sometimes I might have done it, even then I wouldn't believe the story that we have here about the rules of procedure. I'd protest against that. I could have written all our 15 members five plus three minutes of examples of the years where one or the other has been in power and what has been done. It doesn't make any sense, because ultimately, sorry, people don't care. It doesn't matter. But I do understand the usual opposition talk. If amendments are not taken into account in the case of draft 302, after all, all amendments were opened for negotiation, amendment and debate, then it is said that coalition is a roller coaster. However, if it is taken into account, and it has been done, it is said that there is confusion and that they do not know what they want. This is the usual opposition talk. That's what I understand, and I'm telling you, it's clear to me. From today's speeches, I hope that I will not be offended if I iron a little bit of the conviction that many have said here: creating a tax environment that is more favourable to low-wage earners is contrary to the desire to have more high-paid jobs in Estonia. It has no impact analysis. Reform party, do it! If I see an impact analysis, I'll believe it. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U563	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U564	Now I'm really gonna argue. Why did I come here? I came to congratulate the previous government and the present. Imagine! For over a year now, I have been interested in how we in Estonia have started to wonder why Estonians are now shopping for alcoholic beverages in Latvia. You know what surprises me? I wonder why the Finns have been shopping for drinks for 30 years. Interestingly, it doesn't raise any questions for anyone. The reason is exactly the same. The Finns come here and our price is in one relationship. In the same way, for the same reason, some Estonians are currently buying alcohol from Latvia. There is no difference in that sense. And I think the previous government did the right thing and the current government will do the right thing if it continues to raise excise duties on alcohol by raising people's wages. Look what this is about! Somehow, in the course of this debate, we have completely forgotten what the point of alcohol excise is. He has always, throughout history, had one thought: it is the most effective means of keeping goods for people at a certain distance, in access. That's all there is to it. As soon as income increases, but excise duties do not rise, availability increases. You could get caught the other way around. I've been in the government myself, forced to lower excise duty because the effect was the opposite. Figuratively speaking, Estonians are currently in Latvia for the same reason as Finns in Estonia. Because Latvians cannot raise more excise duty because there are lower wages. Rather, they would turn out backwards, such an accident from it. That's not what we want for the Latvians, is it? Next moment. Why have all countries changed their excise policy for years in the interest of access? Because it has come to a conclusion that I already came to in this prehistoric period when I was Minister of Social Affairs. You see, with people my age, there's very little to do about it. Some of us have learned to drink alcohol, others have not learned and have died, and others no longer do so at all. The effect of excise duty on the last group is almost nonexistent. However, the excise duty will affect the next generation, the generation that goes home tonight and tells Mom that we haven't had a drink, we only drank beer. And that is why almost all countries in Europe are now increasing the availability of lean alcohol, wisely, understanding that it is ultimately more meaningful and beneficial to human health than any other policy. It's cheaper than treating everyone later. The fact that we are finally taking the first step is, above all, a health issue. It is not a matter of excise policy; it is not even a matter of strong or lean alcohol, it is a matter of health in its pure form. That's right, we're finally gonna get there. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U565	Thank you. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U566	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I come back to the same point where the President of the Riigikogu, Mr Nestor, graduated. But to begin with, the statements of the Minister of Finance and the answers to questions. When I asked the Minister about the new tax reform in which the percentages of the income tax rate come, and I dared to criticise the principle of his home party, rather the lack of principle, there was a criticism of our principles. However, the question is what the Minister of Finance said a year ago, and what he said here today. While a year ago the same minister praised the reduction of the social tax by 0.5% as the best idea at all, which develops our business, helps businesses and moves the economy forward, today his story was quite the opposite, exactly 180 degrees different. I am not sure that this coincides with the principle of principle. While Mr Sester was still strongly opposed to the concept of graduated income tax last year, his ministry has now developed an idea that is essentially progressive income tax. The question is what is actually being achieved right now. It is not that those who receive more wages are taxed at a higher rate, but that the highest tax burden falls, in percentage terms, to the servants of EUR 1,200 to EUR 2,100. It's a precedent all over the world. So far, at least I have not heard, none of the countries where the income tax rate would be between 1200 and 2100 euros by 34% and then 31.1%. You can make and calculate the draft, exactly such a range. As the tax-free minimum rate gradually declines, for those earning a salary in this range, the percentage of income tax automatically paid will increase. Those people who make 2100 euros or more will pay exactly 20% of their income again. The development of such a system is the introduction of progressive income tax, but in a very schizophrenic way. If the Minister's own home party ever again approves of this, then good luck! At least you could officially say that the left-hand economic model is their motto. The second thing I can't agree with absolutely is alcohol duty. Yes, we are all worried about the health of the Estonian people, we really care about people and we want them to consume less alcohol, but alcohol consumption does not only show how much alcohol has been sold in Estonia. The survey carried out by Emor this year showed that 28% of the Estonian adult population have visited Latvia at least once and bought alcohol, which they otherwise bought in Estonia. Thus, we may increase excise duty and this may reduce the purchase of alcohol from Estonia, but it does not show a reduction in consumption. In comparison to Finland and to ask why Finns go to Estonia to buy alcohol, it is precisely because their alcohol is even more expensive, their excise duties are even higher, they obviously come here to buy alcohol. Our people drink just as much, but they buy drinks from Valka or Riga or somewhere else, and we're missing out on tax revenue. Do we want this, or do we really want to improve the health behaviour of our people? I will, for example, bring the latest increase in alcohol duty in 2015, when the excise duty on strong alcohol increased by 15%. At the time, the Ministry of Finance predicted an additional revenue of EUR 22 million, but in fact only EUR 2 million was received. So to miss EUR 20 million and now to say that it increases our revenues is ridiculous. This shows the capacity of the analysts of the Ministry of Finance when, for three years in a row, Estonia's economic growth is misestimated, which should be only 1% in the year ending. These two elements are not something that we can agree on in any way. Thirdly, of course, a feasible policy. As the new government consists of two thirds of exactly the same political parties, the Social Democrats and the IRL or the Fatherland, it depends on how they want to call themselves and on how the Central Party is the only party that has come into direct contact with them. I'll take a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U567	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U568	Not much can be expected of others, but it is ridiculous that the Centre Party, which only for a year and a half, actively criticised the policies of the Reform Party and the suppression of cluster billing, but is acting even worse itself. Let's take a "Forum" show on the air tonight, where the new Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications accused others of doing the same. It's very childish and short-sighted, let's say the Reform Party did that, and then we'll do it back the same way. It does not develop Estonian political culture in any way, as the new Prime Minister has promised. Finally, a car tax. A coalition party who calls itself the right-wing party could end the falsehood and not try to hide reality behind a word like 'car tax'. It doesn't matter whether it's car tax or car tax, it's the same thing. If we want to move towards more and more taxes and tax cars, on which taxes have actually already been paid anyway, VAT on new cars, then this is a genuine left-hand economic model. You could call things what they really are, you'd be more honest with everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U569	Thank you. Next, please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U570	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I was motivated by the honourable President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor. I'm sorry he's away from the hall right now, but hopefully he'll be watching us or at least read a verbatim report later. A member of the Riigikogu has some fundamental rights that must not be violated and are completely inalienable. The deadline for submitting amendments of 10 days is not in vain. There is no definite procedure for coming into Riigikogu proceedings when one or more drafts may come to the Riigikogu, when they may come to the agenda. All this has been done in order for a member of the Riigikogu to have enough time to read, to understand. If you do not understand, you can ask experts and experts for advice on the cost of one or the other decision, what the effects are, and then decide on the basis of what you read and understand. This is absolutely true of every draft, especially one that we are currently discussing. It does not depend on who is in the coalition or who is in the opposition. It's just gonna have to be like this in this hall, and one day we're gonna have to start sticking to it. With this law, as a vigilante, I would have needed much more time. I'm not as brilliant as the members of the new coalition who realize everything on the flight and take it off the flight. Or, sorry very much, they are obedient to their ministers and to the leaders of their group. However, if a very long-term member of the Riigikogu, the current chairman of the Riigikogu, says that he does not see any procedural problems with this law, he will act like an ostrich. He actually sees them very well. He is a wise and experienced man, and he knows very well what is wrong with this procedure, but he does not want to admit it. Why he's acting like this, I don't know. I see a member of the Riigikogu living in him again, creative, talented and crutch-minded, but I do not see in him the President of the Riigikogu defending the dignity of the parliament. It's a very sad story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U571	Thank you. Next please, Madis Milling!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U572	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not a financial specialist. I have many good group friends who are specialists and who explain to me the details of this area that I do not understand. But there are things I understand, and I understand perfectly. I understand very well when a text comes from this speaker, which is substantive, well-argued with facts, and I understand when a person believes what he's saying. I also understand when a person is hesitant on this talk board and not because he believes what he says, but because he has to talk. That, too, is understandable. It is not a question of performance; the question is whether a person is fake or not. Let it be for history to decide who spoke the factual logical text and who didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U573	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U574	Mr President, I ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U575	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U576	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank those members of the Riigikogu who were able to remain balanced in their speeches today, arguing and thinking with two hemispheres during their speech. This means that if we lower taxes, raise certain subsidies, increase benefits, then we also need to find a source of revenue somewhere. This balanced analysis, weighing both sides, has occurred here. These were credible, meaningful speeches. I agree with almost everything that Mr Herkel, for example, and several other colleagues, said. However, unfortunately, I have to say that I cannot agree with the speeches made by almost any previous coalition partner in the Reform Party, where there was no comprehensive analysis. I came here completely unprepared, driven by previous speeches, and quickly sought out some materials to clarify the facts for the verbatim report. First of all, I'll give you my opinion. In my opinion, the re-independence has never existed in Estonia and is not currently subject to proportionate income tax. There has always been progressive income tax. This artificial theme, with which two major parties, the Reform Party and the Centre Party have been opposed over 25 years and fooled by voters, does not correspond to reality. After the restoration of independence, there was progressive income tax in Estonia: the tax-free rate was 40 kroons, initially 400 roubles per month. The steps were divided as follows: up to 80 kroons per month, 16%, 80.150 kroons per month, 24%, over 150 kroons per month, 33%. From 1 August 1992, the tax was 50% for the part of income exceeding 200 kroons per month. Further, the major changes entered into force on 1 January 1994. The rate of income tax was 26%, the rate of tax-free income was initially 300 kroons per month. Later, the kroons have been replaced by euros and the income tax rate has been reduced from 26% to 20 percent and the income tax-free minimum has been raised. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that, at the request of the Reform Party, complex and bureaucratic income tax refunds for low-paid people have been applied instead of the much simpler low-paid income tax exemptions recommended by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. I would stress that the income tax exemption was replaced by a tax refund, which was in fact much more bureaucratic and complicated. So I would like to say that there is no proportional income tax in Estonia, so it is not possible to lose it or to switch to the progressive income tax that we have been in place all along. That is the first clarification that I wanted to say to my colleagues. Such a linguistic dispute, I think, could remain in the past and we could focus more on the content of which deciles, which groups, social groups win or lose with certain tax changes and which do not, which motivates more to earn, how to grab more hands on the labour market, etc. Let's put an end to these linguistic disputes! Second clarification. The young gentleman behind me, who is running our meeting right now, said that juices are also taxed on sweets. First of all, we don't have a bill for that yet. Secondly, European Union law, however we wish, does not allow it. Even if the Estonian state wanted to do so, it would not receive such a distinction that the juices could be taxed with sweet tax, because the European Union has regulated, which are juices, which are nectars and which are juice drinks. Juices are those that can only contain natural sugar, i.e. no water should be added. Juice is a completely natural beverage sold in a shop, it is not possible to add sugar, even less can be taxed without adding sugar. So to frighten the Estonian people with such examples or ignorance coming from this remote control should not be. I wanted to clarify that. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally. There has been talk of coalition governments, previous and present, and the change of government very passionately. Coalition governments are like living together that ends when jealousy exceeds love. That's what happened to the last coalition. Today, when I listened to these passionate speeches from this speaker, I realized: I also love a loser. Let this be a consolation to the Reform Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U577	Thank you. Next, please speak to Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U578	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to ensure that this evening is not in vain, I will correct Helir-Valdor Seeder's misconception of the Estonian tax system. Indeed, there has been a tax-free rate and there has been a uniform tax rate. You can immerse yourself no matter how much, that there have always been steps and now there will be no progressive income tax. No matter how you confirm it to yourself, what comes along with your 1500th degree is progressive income tax. Or, if you want, there are 1,500 levels of income tax. That's definitely not good news. The Estonian tax system has been, I think, among the best in the OECD for about three years in a row, no 1 in fact. This is an assessment made by experts compared to many of our successful countries. Now, if you think about what entrepreneurs expect from their previous work experience, and I dare say that businesses expect stability, clarity, simplicity and the same for people, then all this talk about happiness coming now is not very credible. The rise in the tax-free minimum is a sensible thing, which we certainly support. We've done it ourselves. Very good! But all the other things concerning progressive income tax, together with tax increases, are in no way acceptable. It is sad, in fact, that the new government is also starting to break the six-month principle. That's what we've been against. Businesses have opposed this, large business organisations have adopted it, and the Chancellor of Justice has also pointed it out. I sincerely hope that what is happening in this Parliament will also matter to the President of the Republic and that his advisers or the President himself, if he has nothing else to do at the moment, will monitor this sitting and wonder whether the new government should begin legislative practice in this form. This is not good practice, let alone breaking the rules. There is currently no reason why the tax increase should not be known to the taxpayer in advance for six months. So I would say very briefly: no matter how you instill in yourself that what is being done is very good and it is a gift to people, neither the confusing tax system nor the tax increase is certainly positive. Besides, it's a formal violation. We intend to draw attention to this now and in the future. I think we'll be able to exchange countless more thoughts on the remote and the costaars tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U579	Thank you. March Sults next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U580	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, As a teacher, I am warmly pleased that I have heard for more than six hours in a row how the Reform Party is sinking its own budget. It is great that the Reform Party has understood everything it has failed to do. Everything! And now he's ironing the coalition government for what he's done wrong. Super! Michal's speech was very good, it was great. If you turn his history back, I think there's gonna be a thousand objections to any of his claims he has on the coalition right now. So in any case, it's a good thing you're analyzing what you're doing. Just in case, I can say that the budget change that you are currently sacking the coalition government is, in fact, only 1% of the budget. Although it is a very large sum, it is still only 1%. So, basically, you guys have screwed up this shit for us, let's say, but we have to eat it now. I know the education system very well. You bluffed about the teachers' raise, although it's barely 2.6%, but we have to eat it. You guys are gonna play the headmaster's gonna go, put on pretty eyes and say to the teachers, "I'm sorry, it didn't come out today!" The worst thing about it is we're gonna do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U581	Thank you. As a procedural supplement, I say that we are not currently discussing a budget change, but we are talking about the second reading of the Bill 302, which contains a number of fiscal policy changes. Next, I would like to ask you to speak on the subject, Mr Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U582	Thank you, Mr President. That is exactly what I was about to ask the procedural question: did you understand whether Märt Sults was talking about the bill we are currently discussing or about the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U583	Thank you. I have to admit, I got the impression he was talking about the state budget. But we are, of course, talking about Bill 302. If there are no more requests for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. 157 amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Free Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U584	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U585	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U586	Thank you, good manager. I think that the coalition needs a ten-minute break to examine this proposal, so that is what we are asking for.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U587	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U588	I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. There were 12 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, 65 against and no abstentions. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The amendment was not supported. The second amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U589	Thank you, Mr President. We ask for this proposal to be voted on and, before the vote, we ask for a ten-minute break to think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U590	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U591	I shall put to the vote the position of the commission of the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party: to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. There were 19 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 56 against the proposal, with 7 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Third amendment, author of the Estonian Free Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U592	Mr President, please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U593	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Before voting on the amendment, we ask for a ten-minute break so that the Minister of Finance may be able to withdraw this proposal and the entire draft. I'm sorry! Not a proposal, though, a bill. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U594	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U595	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U596	I shall put the third amendment to the vote. Submitted by the Estonian Free Party Group, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 18 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 58 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, is to disregard the position of the commission. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U597	Thank you, Mr President. We're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U598	Thank you. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U599	Thank you, Mr President. Before voting on this amendment, I ask for a ten-minute break so that the government can seek a compromise with the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U600	Understood. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U601	I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was 7 against 63 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Fifth amendment, tabled by Aivar Sõerd, position of the commission: disregard. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U602	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. We are asking for this amendment to be voted on, and before that we are also asking for a ten-minute break, because the last ten minutes were not enough to find a compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U603	Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U604	I shall put the fifth amendment, author Aivar Sõerd, to the vote on the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 17 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 45 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6, author Aivar Sõerd, position of the commission: disregard. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U605	Thank you, Mr President. This is a very substantial but complex proposal, so we are asking for a ten-minute break in advance so that everyone can get a thorough look at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U606	Thank you. Do you also want to vote on this proposal, or do you just want a break? A microphone for Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U607	I'm sorry! I would certainly like to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U608	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The vote and before that ten minutes of intermission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U609	Dear members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on the sixth amendment, tabled by Aivar Sõerd, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 17 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 46 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Seventh amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, position of the commission: disregard. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U610	Thank you. Please vote and before this eight-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U611	Thank you. Eight minutes break. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U612	I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 18 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 45 against, no abstentions. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is to take full account of the position of the commission. The ninth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, is the position of the lead committee to be disregarded. Tenth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, position of the commission: disregard. Amendment 11, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. Was there a question about the manager's break? We can ask this question... [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Amendment 12, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. Kristen Michal, please! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U613	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for the vote on this proposal and, before it, for a ten-minute break to deal with the search for compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U614	Understood. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U615	I shall put to the vote the 12th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 19 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, 39 against, one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 13, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, position of the commission: disregard. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U616	Thank you, Mr President. As the previous proposal was not supported, we ask for the next vote, as we hope it will find support, and we will try to explain in the intervening ten minutes, so we will also ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U617	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U618	Break's over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 13 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Commission. Please vote! In favour of 10, against 39, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 14, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the lead committee has been disregarded. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U619	Thank you, Mr President. I very much hope that I will be able to convince you of the need for this amendment, and I would certainly like us to vote on it. But before the vote, maybe I can convince the coalition of its goodness by taking a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U620	Break ends in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U621	We are voting on Amendment 14, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, and the Steering Committee has failed. Please vote, House. In favour of 10, 38 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 15, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U622	Thank you, President of the sitting. I tried very hard to convince you about the previous amendment, but it seems that it was not enough. We are also asking for this amendment to be voted on and we hope that the next ten minutes will give us additional persuasion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U623	Then you could also say you need to take a break. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U624	I shall put to the vote Amendment 15, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the proposal has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 7, against 39, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, without taking into account. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U625	Yes, Mr President, thank you for paying attention. I would like to vote on this proposal. Of course, I would also like to discuss this with my colleagues for ten minutes. Break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U626	We just voted on the 15th proposal, okay, and now we're discussing the 16th.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U627	Amendment 16?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U628	That's a very good point. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U629	We are voting on Amendment 16, the author's Reform Party Group, the lead committee has failed. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 7, against 39, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the commission. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U630	Thank you, Mr President. I will do it shorter this time, not in the length of the intermission, but in the fact that we are asking for it to be voted and asking for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U631	Break ten minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U632	We will vote on Amendment 17, the author's Reform Party Group, the lead committee has failed. Please vote! In favour of 10, 38 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U633	Thank you, Mr President. We would also very much like to discuss this amendment and take a ten-minute break and, of course, then vote on it afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U634	Aadu Black, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U635	A procedural question: could this call not be replaced by a more optimistic sound piece, such as the avatar from Beethoven's work Ode to Joy or something like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U636	Could. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U637	We are voting on Amendment 18 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party and the Steering Committee have not taken account of it. Please vote! Quiet during the vote, please. In favour of 7, against 40, with no abstentions, there was no support. Amendment 19, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the lead committee has been rejected. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U638	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this motion to be voted on. Before we can ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U639	Arthur Talvik, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U640	Honourable Chairman! My colleague Aadu Black has made an excellent proposal to change this dinghy, it really drives me crazy, some better music could be. Have you ever discussed this proposal in the Bureau, or have you not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U641	I've once proposed it myself. Thank you. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U642	Amendment 19, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the lead committee, has been disregarded. Please vote! In favour of 9, against 39, no abstentions, no support was found. Amendment 20, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U643	Mr President, thank you for your word. We want to vote on this proposal, and before that we also want a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U644	Arthur Talvik, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U645	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! If you once proposed to change that call ring in your own time, what was your answer and who was the answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U646	It is not related to this bill, but it was said that it might be intentional, that there would be no desire to take so many breaks. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U647	Amendment 20 goes to the vote, tabled by the Reform Party Group, the Commission has failed. Please vote! In favour of 13, against 39, no abstentions, no support was found. Amendment 21, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U648	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on and we would like a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U649	Arthur Talvik, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U650	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! The fact that we have to vote here on some strange proposals from the Reform Party almost half past three nights, such as raising some amounts of money by one euro, how do you know well this law, which I am referring to now, is in accordance with public health law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U651	Amendment 21, tabled by the Reform Party Group, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! In favour of 6, 37 against, there were no abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 22, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U652	This question should have been asked during the procedure of the draft. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U653	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps we could vote on this amendment and ask for a ten-minute break before that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U654	Honourable Riigikogu! In the last ten minutes, my heart began to ache that Artur Talvik really had a procedural moment. I would ask Mr Pevkur, if possible, to provide Artur Talvik with an impact analysis of his amendments No 12 to 128. Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U655	Amendment 22, tabled by the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account by the commission. Please vote! In favour of 10, 35 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 23, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U656	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. As long as we are still writing an impact analysis, we are asking for a vote on this point. And before that, we'd like to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U657	The amendment, yes. You said the number of the amendment, I said 'point'.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U658	By point, you mean the amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U659	Got it. Arthur Talvik, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U660	Mr President of the Riigikogu. I am very grateful that you mentioned that the Reform Party could carry out an impact analysis on all the strange amendments they are proposing. But despite the fact that the public knows the Reform Party as a highly administratively able party, they have not been able to carry out an impact analysis in this short period of time. I hear a quick-finger like Jürgen Ligi has been made to do this, but even he can't do it. I therefore ask you to take the chairman's break until the impact analysis is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U661	Amendment 23, tabled by the Reform Party Group, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! Quiet during the vote, please. In favour of 5, 34 against, no abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 24, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U662	Thank you. I think that my options for taking the chairman's break are limited in time and that is too difficult a task. But now Hanno Pevkuri took a break for ten minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U663	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U664	Ten.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U665	How many minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U666	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U667	We are voting on Amendment 24, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party and the Steering Committee has failed. Please vote! Nine o'clock, 30 against, no abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 25, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the lead committee has been rejected. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U668	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for this amendment to be voted on and for urgent wishes to be accepted, we are taking a nine-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U669	Break nine minutes. Proceed to 03.21.45.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U670	Honourable Riigikogu, we will vote on Amendment 25 tabled by the Reform Party Group, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! In favour of 7, 29 votes against, there were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 26, tabled by the Reform Party Group, the lead committee has been disregarded. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U671	Thank you, Mr President. There is certainly a need to vote on this proposal, and here we are also asking for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U672	Amendment 26, tabled by the Reform Party Group, the lead committee has been rejected. Please vote! In favour of 5, 28 against, there were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 27, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the lead committee has been disregarded. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U673	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U674	Thank you, President of the sitting. Although minutes will slowly disappear, we are still asking for this proposal to be voted on and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U675	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U676	Thank you, President of the sitting. Since Amendments 27 and 127 are completely identical, do I understand correctly that the next 100 we can skip?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U677	Amendment n° 27. [[Browse papers.]] Yes, it is a question to the Commission. I believe that Amendment 27 must be voted on as requested. And 127, by then, the Commission will have to explain. I would ask the chairman of the committee to explain how it has come to be here. Break one minute, because the proposer didn't say. (The floor says, "Yes, he did! ') Said ten minutes? Interesting, I didn't hear. Please, Hanno, don't be modest. Break ten minutes. Come on, come on, come on!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U678	Thank you, Mr President. The Commission, when these fine amendments were examined, found that a couple of times the Reform Party had set five figures. Personally, I think someone's fingers are too thick, i.e. there was a finger mistake, and he wanted to press one button, but he pressed two at a time. Clearly, in this case, it is no longer a fat finger, but a bad vision. Really, again, an error of work, mistakenly 8 ended up here in nine. I'll draw some conclusions from that. I'll have all the documents coming from the Reform Party checked several times.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U679	Arto Asa has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U680	Yes, thank you! I listened with interest to what Mr Mikhail said. He said that something was voted and pressed in the committee, but it is not possible to vote or press anything at committee meetings. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U681	It's a powerful procedural observation. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Honourable Riigikogu, if you look at the earlier amendments and the following amendments, as well as Amendment 127, I think that the authors of the amendment wanted to replace the wording '2700 euros' with the text '2851 euros'. In this wording, I shall also put this amendment to the vote. This has been presented by the Reform Party Group; the lead committee has failed. We are voting on the amendment where 'EUR 2700' is replaced by 'EUR 2851'. Please take a stand and vote. There were 7 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, with 31 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 28 was tabled by the Group of the Reform Party; the commission failed. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U682	Thank you, Mr President, for clearing things up with this previous amendment, and you also read the revised wording. However, we ask for a vote on Amendment 28 and we ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U683	Thank you! This time the desire was extremely clear. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U684	Amendment 28, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! 5 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 25 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 29, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U685	Thank you, Mr President. Since I have read this amendment again and it has been correctly tabled, we are asking for this amendment to be voted on. Before that, we also ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U686	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U687	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 29 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour by 6 MPs, 25 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 30 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the lead committee has disregarded this. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U688	Thank you, Mr President. I understood that the coalition ambassadors also wanted to get a little closer acquainted with this proposal, so we are asking for this proposal, first of all, certainly to vote and, second, to ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U689	Ten minutes of recess, then we vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U690	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 30, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 6 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 25 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 31, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Steering Committee has been disregarded. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U691	Thank you! The Reform Party Group wants to vote on this proposal, and we also want a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U692	Please! Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U693	I shall put to the vote Amendment 31, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour by 6 MPs, with 27 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 32, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U694	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for this amendment to be voted on. It seems to me that we all need a little stretch and getting up for a minute, so let's take a little break, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U695	I shall put to the vote the 32nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Steering Committee have been disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. There were 6 votes in favour and 25 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 33, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U696	Deal. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U697	Thank you, Mr President. The Group of the Reform Party is asking for this amendment to be voted on and a small boost over a ten-minute break would be very appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U698	All right! Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U699	I shall put to the vote the 33rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Steering Committee have been disregarded. Please vote! The proposal was in favour of 7, against 29 members of the population. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 34, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the lead committee has disregarded. Hanno Pevkur, please! [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U700	Thank you, Mr President. The Reform Party Group would like to vote on this proposal and to keep this buzz a little quiet, we are also asking for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U701	Ten minutes break. A little quieter in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U702	I shall put to the vote Amendment 34 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! The amendment was voted in favour of 7 against by 30 parliamentarians. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 35, as well as from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the commission has failed. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U703	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, we are asking for this amendment to be voted on, and we want to take a ten-minute break before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U704	Please, ten minutes of recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U705	Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote on Amendment 35, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please vote! The proposal was supported by 8 and against 37 members of the population. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 36, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the lead committee has disregarded. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U706	Good chairman of the sitting! On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for this very good amendment to be voted on, and before that, we will take a ten-minute break to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U707	If it's really good, ten minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U708	Amendment 36 has reached the vote. This has been done by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the decision of the commission: not to take it into account. Please vote! The proposal was in favour of 8 and there were 36 parliamentarians against it. The proposal was not supported. 37th amendment, as well as from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U709	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would also like to put this amendment to the vote and, before that, we would take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U710	All right, let's vote in ten minutes. A procedural question, please, Jaanus Marrand!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U711	I have a procedural question. Maris Lauri commented on the previous question as a very good proposal, although it differs by only one euro from the current one. Was the previous ten-minute break used for economic analysis to determine whether a proposal that differs by one euro is significantly better than the previous one? [[???Kommentaar saalist: 'Kusjuures järgmine on veel parem.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U712	Colleagues, I am voting on the 37th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour of 9 against 36 parliamentarians. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 38, also tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U713	It is very difficult for the chair to comment on this. I recommend that we talk to Maris Lauri during the break, but as an older person, I know that sometimes there is a very big difference in one euro.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U714	Good chairman of the sitting! On behalf of the Reform Party Group, please put this amendment to the vote as well. At the same time, I assure my colleague, Mr Marrant, that all our proposals are excellent. We hope that in the next ten minutes, which we ask for more, we will still be able to convince you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U715	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U716	Thank you. I had a question, too. Does the Great differ significantly from the Good?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U717	That's a semantically important question. Exactly as well, I suggest you solve it in the costaars. It is likely that the President of the sitting is not competent to decide on it. We'll vote in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U718	Perhaps we could go to the next amendment, because this request to 'take over' did not, in my opinion, sound like a wish to take a ten-minute break. I don't know about this 'to take' proposal. We can move on freely.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U719	For me, there was no problem. I understood that Maris Lauri made a request for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Group. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U720	Yes, I assure you that colleagues will understand clearly: on behalf of the Reform Party Group, we are asking for a ten-minute break before the vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U721	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U722	It is a little unclear how all the proposals can be excellent. They differ by one euro and so a hundred times in a row. How can all proposals be excellent?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U723	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U724	The good group certainly recommends no more picking up. All you have to do is take a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U725	We'll vote in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U726	I shall put to the vote the 38th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Steering Committee have been disregarded. Please vote! Nine voted in favour of the proposal, 36 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 39. This has been presented by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the commission has failed. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U727	Good chairman of the sitting! The Reform Party Group is asking for this amendment to be voted on and would like to take a break of eight minutes before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U728	Eight minutes break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U729	... The mike's on. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Thank you very much. Was that a procedural purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U730	The Chair is pleased that the problem has been resolved. I shall put to the vote Amendment 39, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, and the Steering Committee has failed. Please take a stand and vote. There was 8 in favour and 36 in favour of the proposal, with one MP being neutral. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 40, as well as from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has rejected this proposal. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U731	Good chairman of the sitting! The Reform Party Group calls for this amendment to be put to the vote and wishes to take a ten-minute break before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U732	Ten-minute break. Jaanus Marrand, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U733	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have not been able to find out at any time in any interval about the one-planning nature of these amendments. They differ, more than a hundred of them, each one by one euro. I wonder if these amendments have been put together by the Reform Party in the course of some sort of booze, or what? There is no logical justification for such a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U734	A political group shall have the right to vote on its amendments if they have not been taken into account. All the rest, including members of the Reform Party Group, can express their final decision by voting. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U735	If it is really difficult for Mr Marrant to understand what the amendments are, then I propose that, in the future, the leadership of our group, if he takes a break, read out the content of the amendment at length, then everyone in the Chamber will understand. It's gonna take a little more time, but then what? As long as you know what to vote for. This is in any case better than the amendments tabled by the coalition, which no one understands.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U736	Usually, very long explanations have not been used to put these amendments to the vote because everyone has a brief summary of these amendments on the tables. Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U737	Thank you! I am pleased that Mr Randpere has just intervened in the debate. Because it was his reasoning here a few hours ago that led me to think that all of a sudden these proposals had been put together in some sort of pumpkin. Because, indeed, there is nothing to explain, all the proposals are very one-size-fits-all. There is no analysis and no justification here, because they differ by one euro. I see no analytical aspect of these proposals. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U738	Valdo Randpere, you have a chance to explain, if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U739	Thank you. I'd be happy to explain. During the pumping, amendments to the Russification were tabled to us by the IRL in the Committee on Legal Affairs yesterday. That's what we were talking about. But, Jaanus, try to understand things. There is still a substantive debate here and a vote on changes in budgetary matters. You have already voted in the Russification.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U740	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U741	I have one question: why all this? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U742	Even the classics have said that's the question. Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U743	I am actually disappointed today in the Reform Party and especially in Valdo Randpere when he calls what is happening here a substantive debate and substantive proposals. I'm very deeply disappointed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U744	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U745	One more question: how long? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U746	I expect these lines to be part of the debate. Since this is a substantive debate, since we are talking about the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act, that is another matter. Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U747	I'd rather ask myself, since when is the procedural question what Jaanus Marrand feels or doesn't feel? I honestly don't care how God feels. I think that, from the point of view of the procedure, in the verbatim of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U748	The chair agrees with a number of complaints as to whether this is a procedural issue. Not in a classic sense, but at the same time, colleagues explain to colleagues the content of some proposals and decisions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U749	Thank you, Mr President. I think the opposition has the right to defend its views with the weapon they have available, and let them do it calmly. Only I have a procedural question. Please remember what our Rules of Procedure Act says about how something is put to the vote. Is it even possible to comment on the proposal? If so, how long? As I remember, a year ago, when we were strictly voting, we were not allowed to comment at all on what we are talking about, what is the proposal, it is super good or super bad, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U750	You remember right. Indeed, in general, laconical lines, such as 'Please put this amendment to the vote', are preferred. ', and then they vote. At the same time, however, as President of the sitting, I do not want to prohibit brief comments. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U751	Ladies and gentlemen, Let us be grateful to the Reform Party, as these amendments could easily have been 1200. You understand that it is a very modest move to come here now with 120 proposals. This will enable us to adopt this law in time. The more we talk, the longer the night hearing gets. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U752	Thank you, Mr President. Can you tell me if my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin is not currently in the process of delaying the sitting? We'd really like to discuss things. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U753	The President of the sitting agrees that the sooner we go to specific votes, the sooner we can deal with the end of the second reading of the law. Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U754	I, unlike Kalle Laanet, would like to tell Mikhail Stalnukhin that the golden words. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U755	I will take my word for it and satisfy the group's request for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U756	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 40 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Steering Committee have failed. Please vote! The proposal was in favour of 9 and opposed 32 members of the population. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 41, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U757	Good chairman of the sitting! The Reform Party Group is asking for this amendment to be voted on and wishes to take a ten-minute break before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U758	We'll vote in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U759	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote Amendment 41 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Steering Committee have failed. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour of 9 and against 31 MPs. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 42, also tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U760	Good chairman of the sitting! We ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment and, before that, we want to take a ten-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U761	We'll vote in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U762	I shall put to the vote the 42nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please vote! The proposal was supported by eight, with 31 members of the public opposed. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 43 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U763	Thank you, Mr President. The Reform Party Group is asking for this amendment to be voted on and would like to take a ten-minute break before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U764	We'll vote in ten minutes. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U765	Good manager! The procedural question: what has the Reform Party Group now improved every ten minutes in Bill 302 in seven hours?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U766	Representatives of the Reform Party and of all other political groups shall have the right to put the proposal to the vote if the proposal has not been taken into account by the commission. I repeat myself, but I say, and I am convinced that all of us can express our attitude during the vote. We'll do it in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U767	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 43rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour by 8 against 32 parliamentarians. Well, there was no support for this proposal. Amendment 44, also tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been disregarded by the commission. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U768	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Reform Party Group is asking for the amendment to be voted on and would like to take a ten-minute break before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U769	Please, a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U770	I shall put to the vote the 44th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Dear members of the Riigikogu, please take a stand and vote! There were 8 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, with 29 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 45th amendment, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U771	Good chairman of the sitting! The Reform Party Group is asking for this amendment to be voted on and would like to take a ten-minute break before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U772	Thank you. Break ten minutes. But there's a word for Peter Ernitsa first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U773	Good manager! I've been told that it takes a stretch to get the media's attention, but the journalists are already asleep. Can you hurry up now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U774	Good colleague Peter Ernits! Look at the balcony for a second, and you'll see that the journalists aren't sleeping. However, I believe that such a tactic is needed to draw attention to the shortcomings of this draft. But since there are no more questions, I'll announce a break for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U775	I shall put to the vote the 45th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, and the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 9 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, with 29 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. 46th amendment, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U776	Good chairman of the sitting! The Reform Party Group is asking for the amendment to be voted on and would like to take a ten-minute break before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U777	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U778	Good manager! I'm really worried. There have been too few reform parties to see all night, five, six, or seven of them here. As the chairman of your party, you might be concerned. One way is to put the signature on the volume. Is that possible or isn't it? Suddenly they don't hear we're going to have a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U779	Thank you. I'm absolutely sure it's not a question of signing loud. Thank you for your procedural question. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U780	In terms of prevention, Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you did not turn on the call button two minutes before the vote. It was turned on by an employee of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. In fact, it would be your duty in the procedure. You're still fresh in your job, but still, please follow the rules of procedure!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U781	Thank you. I've already drawn attention to that. In fact, it is the President's duty to turn the button on a minute before the vote. If the manager wants to do this sooner than a minute, then that is also possible, but once it is foreseen that at least a minute before the bell must be ringed. Any more questions? No, it's not. In that case... Yes, Jaanus Marrand!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U782	Thanks for the clarification, but I would point out that this button must be turned on by you and no one else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U783	Yeah, that's what we talked about. Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U784	I will put the 46th amendment to the vote by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. Eight members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, 26 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 47th amendment, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U785	Good chairman of the sitting! The Reform Party Group is asking for this amendment to be voted on and would like to take a ten-minute break before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U786	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U787	I shall put to the vote the 47th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was accepted by 8 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 48, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U788	Good chairman of the sitting! The Group of the Reform Party is asking for the amendment to be voted on and wishes to take a ten-minute break before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U789	I'm declaring recess for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U790	I shall put to the vote the 48th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 6 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, 33 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 49, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U791	Thank you, President of the sitting. The Reform Party Group is asking for the amendment to be voted on and would like to take a ten-minute break before it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U792	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U793	I shall put to the vote the 49th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 8 votes for the amendment, 32 against members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 50, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U794	Good chairman of the sitting! The Reform Party Group is asking for the amendment to be voted on and would like to take a ten-minute break before it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U795	Thank you. I'm declaring recess for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U796	I shall put to the vote the 50th amendment, the author of the Estonian Reform Party Group, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 51, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U797	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Reform Party Group would like to vote on the amendment and take a ten-minute break before it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U798	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U799	I shall put to the vote the 51st amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 8 votes against, 35 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 52, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U800	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Reform Party Group would like to vote on the amendment and take a ten-minute break before it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U801	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U802	Good manager! As the head of the Reform Party Group said, the proposals are very good, but I ask why so little will be voted in favour of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U803	Thank you. As a member of the Riigikogu, you are free to vote in favour of the proposals if you so wish. No further questions. I'm declaring recess, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U804	I shall put to the vote the 52nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was for 7, against 39 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 53, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U805	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Group of the Reform Party is asking for the amendment to be voted on and wishes to take a ten-minute break before it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U806	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U807	I shall put to the vote the 53rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was accepted by 15, against 41 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 54th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U808	Good chairman of the sitting! The Reform Party Group wishes to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U809	I'm declaring recess for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U810	I shall put to the vote the 54th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 21 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 55, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U811	Good chairman of the sitting! The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on, and before that we would take a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U812	Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U813	I shall put to the vote the 55th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was adopted by 23 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 56, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U814	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on, and before this six-minute break, because five were not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U815	Thank you. I'm declaring recess for six minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U816	I will put to the vote the 56th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 23 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 56, 45 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 57, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account. 58th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 59, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 60, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 61, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U817	May I have a break for ten minutes? Can't you take it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U818	A break may be requested by the chairman or vice-chairman of the political group immediately before the vote. [[Summing and laughing in the hall.]] If you would like to put the matter to a vote, I suggest you first consult with the group's management. They can also take a break on behalf of the Reform Party Group if they want to vote on one subject or another. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U819	I'd like to vote on that. I have also been chairman of the group, so I have all the rights. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U820	I have been fresh in the elections to the Bureau of the Reform Party Group, so I can say that the leader of the Reform Party Group is Kristen Michal and the vice-chairs are Hanno Pevkur and Maris Lauri. But if you can convince them, they'll be ready to meet you. So try to reach a consensus with your group's leadership on this. We will proceed with the revision of the amendments. We have come to the examination of Amendment 63, sorry, 62. This has been presented by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the position of the commission is to ignore it. Amendment 63, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the Steering Committee wishes to disregard this. Amendment 64, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the Steering Committee wishes to disregard this. Amendment 65, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission is to disregard this. 66. Amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. 67th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. 68th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take this into account. 69th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. The 70th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. Mr. Chef, do you have a procedural question? No, it's not. Thank you. Amendment 71 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. The 72nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. The 73rd amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. 74th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take this proposal into account. 75th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. 76th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Steering Committee has also taken a position on the amendment: not to be taken into account. The 77th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. The 78th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. 79th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. The 80th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. The 81st amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. The 82nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. The 83rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. 84th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Amendment 85 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. 86th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. The 87th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. The 88th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. The 89th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. The 90th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. 91st amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. The 92nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. The 93rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take this proposal into account. 94th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. The 95th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. The 96th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. 97th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Jaanus Marrand, you had the button on. Did you want a word? Got it. 98th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. 99th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. The 100th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. The 101st amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. The 102nd amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. 103rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. 104th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. 105th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. 106th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take this into account. The 107th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. The 108th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. 109th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. 110th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. 111. the amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group; the position of the commission is not to take this amendment into account. The 112th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the position of the Steering Committee is to disregard this amendment. 113th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. 114th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. 115th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. 116th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. 117. the amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. 118th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. 119th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. The 120th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. The 121st amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take this amendment into account. The 122nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. 123rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. The 124th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group; the position of the commission is not to take this amendment into account. The 125th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. 126th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take this proposal into account. 127th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. 128th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. The 129th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U821	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We ask for a vote on Amendment 129.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U822	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 129th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was accepted by 28 and against 47 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 130th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U823	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U824	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 130th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 27 and against 48 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 131st amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U825	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 131st amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was accepted by 28 and against 48 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 132nd amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. 133rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is not taken into account. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U826	Thank you. We ask you to vote and count!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U827	Thank you. Let's vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U828	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 133rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 6 and 46 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 134th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. 135th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U829	Thank you! I would also like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U830	We will vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the 135th amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the position of the commission is to disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 25 members and against 48 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 136th amendment has been tabled by Mr Sõerd; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U831	Thank you, Mr President. We ask for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U832	Let us put this amendment to the vote. I shall put to the vote the 136th amendment tabled by Mr Sõerd. The recommendation and position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was 28 against 50 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 137th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U833	Thank you. We are also asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U834	We will vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the 137th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. There were 30 and 52 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal. There were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 138th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U835	Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U836	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 138th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was accepted by 28 and 52 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 139th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, position of the commission: disregard. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U837	Thank you! Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-14_U838	Let us put this amendment to the vote. I shall put to the vote the 139th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 28 and 52 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Dear Riigikogu, since a new morning has arrived unnoticed, I will take the chairman's break exactly 14 minutes in order for the officials to prepare the agenda for the next sitting. Break 14 minutes. Closure of the sitting at 9.47 a.m.
