ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, honourable Members of the Government! Question Time. Incoming check, please! 35 members of the Riigikogu are present at plenary Question Time. The members of the government are Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar and Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljurand. I am giving the opportunity to put forward an additional question in the debate on each issue, not more, because there are eight in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U2	The first question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U3	Dear Taavi in the garment! The Estonian representative at Kersti Kaljulaid, the European Court of Auditors, completed his term of office on 6 May, but he will continue to work there because the government has failed to appoint him an heir to the coat. It is not possible for it to return to Estonia and accept a new job. The previous governments were able to appoint an Estonian representative to the European Audit Office in due time, and other Member States have also succeeded in this task. What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U4	Thank you. I think the decision to appoint our representative there, Kersti Kaljulaid, was the right decision in its time. This has been a very dignified representative of Estonia. The current government will probably also appoint a dignified representative for Estonia, but we will do so at such a rate that we take into account the working hours of the institutions of the European Union. The Minister of Finance Sven Sester is expected to present a candidate to the government for discussion in this time frame so that in the autumn, when the European Union institutions are ready to hold parliamentary hearings for example, they will also be able to discuss the suitability of the Estonian candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U6	Mr Sven Sester, the Minister of Finance you mentioned last November, came forward with his candidate and made his possible progress. It was clear that this candidate could not be submitted by consensus decision of the government. November was followed by December and January. It was clear that the government wasn't doing anything. The three chairmen of the opposition group sent you a letter recommending that if you are unable to find a candidate for consensus, you announce a public competition. So you would have found the best representative of Estonia and managed to submit his candidacy by March. You yourself said March is the deadline. March passed, but you refused to make a contest, and it is also after May when Kersti Kaljulaid's working hours should have ended. Now you're saying there's time until autumn. It's a year too late. What is wrong with a public competition, why should it not be used if the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, does not give up a candidate who obviously cannot be appointed by consensus?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U7	We must take all decisions in accordance with the law and regulation in force. The law says that a decision can be made by the Government of the Republic. The current regulation says that the government can only do this in such a way that the Minister of Finance, no one else, but only the Minister of Finance, submits a candidate to the government, then the government discusses it and can make a decision. So far, the Minister of Finance has not proposed a candidate, but as Prime Minister and Head of Government, I expect him to do so by such a time that, in the autumn, when the European Union institutions are ready to move on, our candidate has been presented to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U8	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! It is kind of creepy to listen to this explanation when we consider that for six months this issue has been addressed and that this issue is on the front page of newspapers almost every day. If the government is not able to decide such a simple matter and to take one step in the European Union's Rules of Procedure and timetable, can it even be hoped that the government will be able to decide something on the most important issues? Haven't you got the impression that there's a powerless government right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U10	Thank you. Fortunately, the situation is exactly the opposite: on all important issues, the government has made very fundamental decisions. I take this opportunity to thank the Riigikogu for its historic decision to adopt a law whose earlier versions were discussed for a few decades. This is a very fundamental law. I believe you already know that I mean the law on administrative reform. This topic, strangely speaking, did not reach all the TV news yesterday, but I believe that there are no people in this Chamber, either among those who voted in favour or among those who voted 'no', who do not understand the historical nature of this decision. Thank you very much for this. For the first time in Estonia's recent history, Parliament has found a clear agreement on how to reform administrative arrangements in Estonia and how to ensure that high-quality public services are available to people across Estonia, and that there are strong local governments throughout Estonia that can provide services to all residents. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U12	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U13	Thank you. Dear Minister of Culture, You have supported the idea of renameing the Museum of Occupations as the Museum of Freedom, or Vabamu. This idea has been widely condemned in society because it is a sign of disrespect for our history, for our resistance and for the suffering of tens of thousands of people during the genocide and Russification policy. These are things that must not be forgotten, much less hidden under the flag of freedom. You have been asked earlier about the renaming, but I now ask whether the opposition of the public has not led you to reconsider your position. Do you think it's time to rename the New York Holocaust Museum, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U14	Thank you very much for the question. First of all, just as this renaming has found widespread opposition, as you said, it has also received broad support. I am by no means the only public figure who supports the plans that the management and council of the Museum of Occupations have considered for a long time. As a result of the considerations, one proposal has been to change the name and thus to try to increase the potential target group. I fully agree with you that little attention has been paid to the examination of occupations and their origins. This is what the museum has promised to do, among other things: to extend both the exposition area and the scope of its activities and to better demonstrate that there are usually certain reasons for the occupation. We could learn from history what these reasons are, and people should come to the Museum of Occupations to find out. The problem is that Estonians only go there a few thousand a year. If we want a younger generation that has not come into contact with the occupation to learn anything from all of this, then we must definitely expand this activity. This has been the idea of the board of directors and the board of directors of the museum. I believe that they are experts in their field and they correctly perceive how more audiences can be gained. After all, we would like to see as many as possible of the things that history can learn and that history offers us to learn. That is why I support it when they use a possible transformation to become a younger generation in the museum. We should all learn from how the occupation usually started. I think it's especially necessary today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U15	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U16	Thank you. In this case, I am very interested in your view that today's title of the Museum of Occupations prevents us from understanding what is occupation, what is its cause, etc. How does changing the name contribute to a better understanding, especially in a situation where the majority of society is actually opposed to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U17	I don't know what kind of sociological research you're relying on, claiming that the vast majority of society is against it. That is why I cannot comment on this either. I certainly can't name a private museum as a minister. I have not made this choice, nor have I anticipated it today or in the future. However, I can either trust the expertise of these people or not. I'd rather trust them. I suggest that you and those whom you called a very large part of society read in more detail what the Museum of Occupations writes on its website, why it is done, why it is wanted to expand its exposure, also to introduce the basements of Baker's Street, the KGB, to go deep into the study of occupations and to highlight what processes lead to society's occupation. I very much agree with you that this issue needs more attention. I simply understand that it is not as if there has been enough talk in society about how the most practical way of getting the younger generation to the museum is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U18	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I also have concerns about the Museum of Occupation. I also see a protest in the intellectual district against the intention to change the name of the museum. In particular, it was proposed that the national library be transformed into Rabamu in this same wave of name changes, although no one understood why it should be done. You said well that private museums should be trusted. I am interested in the possibility of a plan of national measures to preserve memory on the subject of occupations. The Estonian Ambassador has just visited Arti Hilpus Tomsk in Russia and has placed a wreath at the memorial stone of the people who died in Tomski County. It was then said that the memory of all of this should be spread more widely, both through archives and through publications. If the private museum is unable to do so now, can you come to the aid of the state and we and you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U20	I believe that there are people who work at the museum and who are very competent and have a wide range of eyes at the museum council. I believe that when they draw up their plans, they are both sincere and professional, and I believe that they really do want and can make plans come true. As regards whether the state should intervene more forcefully, I have received, among other things, a proposal that the state should nationalise this museum. I don't think the state should do that. It'd even be a little weird if we went to do it. But the state can support the activities of this museum, just as it has done over time. At the same time, I must say that Kistler-Ritso Eesti SA has invested significantly more in this museum than has been supported by the state, for example. So I think we should be grateful to these private owners that they are working on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U22	The next question is for Foreign Minister Marina Kaljuranna. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! According to the Coalition Agreement, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has to save expenses. You said here in the Riigikogu a few months ago that you were standing up for closing some embassies. At least four embassies are currently at risk of closure: in the Czech Republic, Brazil, Portugal and Kazakhstan. We also know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget is smaller than a few years ago and that the number of ambassadors has not increased in the last 13 years. At first glance, it may seem that closing embassies is a relatively easy way to go, but opening embassies is much more difficult. Is this decision on which embassies will be closed, made, and how do you feel about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U24	Thank you for this question. I will reply immediately that this decision has not been made. This decision can be made by the Government of the Republic. However, as Foreign Minister, I have made all the preparations so that we can start discussing this in the government in the near future. I repeat the principles on the basis of which I have made my proposals. I was based on the security situation, the protection of Estonian economic and business interests and the need to protect Estonian citizens. I'm not going to say anything about any particular embassy. The list you read is not quite correct, compared to what I'm actually going to present to the government. To comment, I would say so much that indeed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also reviewed its structure and functions. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, like all other ministries, must optimise the number of its employees in the context of the state reform. If other ministries have departments, then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has embassies, so-called departments, they are part of our structure. The staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is at the same level as it was before entering the European Union and NATO. At the same time, our budget resources have decreased: in 2010, they were 0.63% of the budget, now they are 0.47% of the budget. We therefore need to look at diplomats, embassies, technical footage in Tallinn and embassies working in Tallinn. In all these circumstances, I will make my proposal to the government in the near future, we will discuss it in the government, and then I will be able to say in concrete terms which embassies are affected by this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U25	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Of course, government must be kept effective, but this should not be done at the cost of security and, in fact, international competitiveness. Of course, given how anxious the international situation is, and also the fact that Estonia will be holding the Presidency of the European Union in the near future, it may be difficult to manage the cuts in this priority area. But my second question concerns the same thing that I asked the Prime Minister about. I'm interested in closing the embassy in Budapest. What are your plans for this? It has been through the press that it has been a somewhat emotional decision, in response to Hungary's behaviour. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U27	I thank you for these questions. I assure you that none of the structural changes or redundancies in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will come at the expense of the security and economic interests of Estonia or the representation of citizens. We have been able to do the restructuring of our work with this wave of redundancies and structural changes. We have functions that we can pass on to other ministries, which should actually be the functions of other ministries, but for some reason they have so far been carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So it is certainly not at the expense of security. Of course, we are counting on the Presidency of the European Union in 2018, on the Security Council's campaign, and on the fact that we are currently holding the Presidency of the Council of Europe. Of course, we take all these facts into account. As far as Hungary is concerned, this decision has been made. I would not like to comment on any decision until I have been able to discuss it with my colleagues in the government and the government has made a decision. I do not rule out that at some point we can come to the question of whether or not the Hungarian embassy should reopen. But it's a matter of the future, it's not an issue today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U28	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U29	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The foreign policy situation is becoming increasingly important. On Monday, we tried to get answers from the Prime Minister to a number of foreign policy issues. He didn't answer one question that I expect you to be able to answer. What is the active role of diplomats in the current foreign policy situation? Very much is pointed out that we need to establish business contacts, but if you're communicating with businessmen or business representatives, there's a problem that they're sending the Excel table and saying that they should now look at how they handle it. What are the guidelines given by the government or the Ministry on the role that ambassadors and diplomats should play in creating business contacts on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U30	Thank you for this question. There is certainly no management of either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or embassies based on the Excel table, about the way that the table is sent and said to fill it out. There never was, there isn't now, and there's not going to be one. The ambassadors represent their country abroad and they represent their country in all areas. I mentioned three main things: security, economics and citizens. Can't say one of them is more important than another. A balance must be found. Of course, the ambassador has a greater function in some countries, because in some countries political barriers are so much higher that an ambassador must be involved in order to be admitted or to hold meetings suitable for a business delegation at political level. In some other countries, the involvement of diplomats is sufficient. Our staff, diplomats and ambassadors are professional enough to evaluate all of this. But I want to confirm once again that the task of all our diplomats is to represent Estonia, to do it in the best way and most effectively, to represent our foreign policy and security interests and our entrepreneurs, to help our entrepreneurs and to assist our citizens. There's no retreat from this after we have to close some embassy. In this case, we will continue to work from Tallinn and other capitals through co-credits, which is also normal international practice. If we look more broadly, Estonia is not the only country to review the network of its embassies. In essence, the whole world is doing it, the Member States of the European Union and other countries. But I'm sure diplomacy as such will never disappear and direct contacts between people are indispensable. If they cannot always change foreign policy, they will certainly help to clarify their positions and to listen better to the other side.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U32	The question will now be asked by Tarmo Tamm to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! According to the Coalition Agreement, the government has promised to create new jobs for the country. In fact, it is quite the opposite, and finding a job in the countryside is becoming increasingly difficult. Post offices, bank offices and ATMs have disappeared from rural areas. But that's it. Life in the country is getting worse, because county hospitals are losing the receptions of specialised doctors, instead they're putting in patient buses that start dragging people to regional hospitals. RMK has decided to lose 38 jobs, 27 of which have been directly located in the countryside, these are the jobs of foresters. Thousand head cattle farms are closed and farmers are losing more and more jobs. In the end, the Road Administration has been given the task of reducing 50 jobs this year and the Road Administration has started closing local offices. From 1 July Põlva, Jõgeva and Valga offices will be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U34	Question, please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U35	For what reasons does the government have a plan to close the offices, and what consequences for rural areas will this have?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U36	Thank you. First of all, as is already good practice, there were plenty of claims on your question this time, which, fortunately, is not true. In particular, the Road Administration has not decided to close the offices mentioned by you. They have asked for the opinion of local authorities what they think about restructuring work so that some services are digital. However, I can say in this respect that any restructuring in the provision of public services must be well-planned, well-founded and also explained. At the moment, we see that there is information noise, and I believe that we need to draw our own conclusions from it. Before the Road Administration decides to make specific decisions, it is important to explain very clearly to the public what this plan is, why it is reasonable and how it is ensured that services are accessible to people on the ground. In itself, if it is possible to make some of the services digital and thus save people's feet because they no longer have to go to public authorities, it is, of course, positive from the people's point of view. But there really must be a conviction that these specific services are digitally accessible to all people. There was only a time when people had to go physically to the Road Administration for driving licences, car registrations, and many other reasons. Most of these services can now be used online and also by post. I believe that this direction has been right in itself, because that is why people have had less need to go to public authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U37	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U38	Thank you. Prime Minister! That was a constructive answer for a long time. But let me give you a concrete example. 9,000 clients attended the Põlva office last year, i.e. 9,000 people needed to get this service on site. 6500 operations were carried out, the office's turnover was EUR 310000, of which the operating costs were EUR 140000, and thus the State received a net profit of EUR 170000. If the state earned extra money from the Põlva region and the office, why should the state now close this office? The company will be more costly, and people will be more expensive. Keeping these offices is one way of keeping the country alive in rural areas. Do you promise that the closure of these offices will not come to the agenda this spring?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U39	Thank you. As I said, this is a decision that the Head of the Road Administration has jurisdiction. But I have been assured by the Deputy Head of the Road Administration that all these plans will be thoroughly discussed with the public. What came out of great news was, in fact, the initiation of a debate with the local authorities. This has been a message from the Deputy Head of the Road Administration to me. If we think about the whole picture, I think you will also support that if we can make some of the services comfortable for people because they can use digital solutions, then it is positive. For example, if a person does not have to go to the Office of the Road Administration at all or to another public institution, it is positive. But those services that need to be provided, such as driving tests, are very difficult to pass without taking a driving test, must still be guaranteed where people live. That's the rational side. I'm still talking about digital services. I have given this example before the Riigikogu in the past, but this is a typical example of why the Road Administration may now be less visited. In the old days, the Road Administration had to take a picture of itself in a photo booth for driver's licenses, which then went to the Road Administration system and from there to the licenses. Now that your ID-card photo, which you've already taken, is automatically used, you don't have to go back to that highway booth. In the end, I think it's convenient if you can order your permits by post. It is not an end in itself to go by public authorities and take a picture everywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U40	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U41	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! I could say the same thing about Jõgeva's office. I'm asking if Jõgeva's office is waiting to be closed this year. But my question is even wider. We are starting to prepare for the reform of the state. Should we not agree on a country reform plan before giving ministries and agencies the opportunity to reform themselves? Or is it the right way for every agency to reform itself and then we'll see how the state reform comes together?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U42	Thank you. At present, it is the initiative of the administration itself to organise its work more effectively. However, I repeat: I have been assured that the alleged decisions on the closure of offices have not actually been taken, but are currently at a stage of discussion when asking the local government leaders what they think about the possibility of keeping these services available in the future and what they think are the best solutions. Speaking of state reform as a whole, we are planning to carry out a systematic audit by the Minister for Public Administration this summer. We also look more broadly at whether all public authorities need to have separate offices in different places or whether synergies can be created in such a way that people can go to, for example, the state house or rural government, where the services of both the Road Administration and other agencies are available to people, and there are no more than one institution in which a person must run. Another thing we are doing in parallel is that if, after receiving the driver's licenses already mentioned, it is still possible to change the registration number, for example, (this also applies to some of the other more common Road Administration services) so that the registration number can be applied for online and received by post, directly home, without going physically anywhere, I think that opposition members are also in favour of moving in this direction, and it is worth doing in any case. I repeat: the aim is not to run people around public institutions, but to get the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U44	The next question must be answered by Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljurannal. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! On 1 February 2016, an article by Eesti Päevaleht and Delfis Vahur Kooritsa was published on the Estonian-Russian border agreement. The memos that I sent back from Moscow were used as illustrative material. On some memos there was also the word "Confidential" written by the registrar in a large and greasy manner. These illustrative materials show that they have been photographed on the knee. How could confidential documents get into the hands of a journalist? I have another addition. Namely, two years ago, one of my students wrote a work on the Estonian-Russian border agreement and asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to use documents of that time. He was informed they were classified, and they refused to use them. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U46	Thank you for this question. To be clear, we are still talking about the same memos that you have prepared that were already published in Delfi in 2013. Memos prepared by foreign diplomats are usually intended for internal use. Memos shall be indicated in this respect, which shall be valid for a maximum period of five years. As you rightly said, there is no such indication as 'Confidential' internally, it really was an illustrative statement of any official he added to the document. As regards documents intended for internal use, the head of the institution may extend, for a period of five years, the requirement that they are intended for internal use only, but may also not be renewed if there are no compelling reasons for doing so. The memos you have prepared do not give any reason that they should still be declared for internal use today. These documents can be accessed by anyone who wishes to come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and visit them in the archives. As far as your second question is concerned, without knowing the specific circumstances, I will not speculate on what it was. If you give me specific facts, I'll answer your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U47	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U48	Thank you. Firstly, Eesti Päevaleht and Delfi are probably not institutions within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Second, in 1996 and 1997, when I wrote these memos, there was the word "confidential." At the time, there was simply no such classification gravity as is used today. So your answer is out of context and out of time. Thirdly, the additional question is that one person whose name I am not going to publicly mention here made a request for public information to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in early February on this very issue, but there has been no reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to this date. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U49	Thank you for this question. Indeed, when you were a diplomat, the current version of the law did not apply. When the Public Information Act came into force, all documents previously drawn up were reviewed. All these documents were marked in accordance with the Public Information Act, i.e. as internal documents. The "Confidential' notation has no reason to put this document into effect because it is a common memo, it was a document for internal use, which now no longer has this restriction. If I am not mistaken, a member of the EKRE really asked for access to these documents. We were willing to give it to him, but he didn't come back.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U50	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U51	Thank you. On your last reply, I'll say he's still waiting for any contact or answer from the State Department. But when was this restriction on 'Intra-institution use' removed from the specific documents published in Delfi in February and which, according to you, are the same documents that have been published in the past? Just a little earlier, however, not several months, but a few years earlier, these documents were also not accessible for research purposes. When in particular was this restriction removed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U52	Thank you for this question. If this esteemed EKRE member is currently watching this broadcast, I will tell him that, yes, he is very welcome to see the documents at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When he filed his application, he was informed of how he might come to see the documents. As regards the removal of the signs under the Public Information Act, this was decided by the Head of the Authority in 2013. While I've been Minister of Foreign Affairs, there has been no mention of this document.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U54	Krista Aru's question to the Minister of Culture Indrek Saare. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is sad and even embarrassing to ask about the pay of cultural workers. But looking at the country's budgetary strategy for the next few years, I was happy to see that among the priority areas where pay must rise, there is also culture. True, this increase is only 2%. How and where can you use this 2%, which part of the salary of cultural workers? Do you still have the hope, the opportunity and the will to increase this percentage, really to deal decisively with the pay of cultural workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U56	Thank you, good questioner, for sharing this concerns about the pay of cultural workers together! In the process of dealing with the country's budgetary strategy, additional guaranteed resources were agreed for wage increases in priority areas, and this is indeed 2%. There was a very long and thorough debate on this issue, because the meeting of the country's budgetary strategy, so that everything is balanced, is always tense. With regard to the issue of pay in particular, this will be followed up in the course of the 2017 budget. August and September are the time when the government is discussing the draft budget for 2017. I very much hope that not only do I attach enough importance to the need to raise the wages of cultural workers in this government, because our current situation, despite the fact that we managed to make one big step forward this year and the minimum wage of a cultural worker with higher education increased by 13.5%, i.e. from EUR 731 to EUR 830, is such that in a situation where Estonia's average salary is close to EUR 1100, the difference with the salary of cultural workers is 30%. We are talking about cultural workers with higher education. I very much hope that the government, when discussing next year's state budget and salary increases, will realise that the idea of having a nation state is that we can freely practice a culture that we love. Without it, this country does not make much sense. However, culture cannot be practiced unless there are people involved in culture. So I'm going to negotiate with a sincere desire for the pay of cultural workers to rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U57	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'll keep going. This 2% is currently simply a guaranteed amount in the strategy. But if, during the negotiations, you manage to get a much needed addition to it, would that be above all an increase in the pay of cultural workers with higher education? We have very good specialists in many cultural institutions, who do not have the required higher education, but who are indispensable. Could the institutions also use this additional money to raise their wages? How does the Ministry see this big picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U59	Thank you! I'd love to be specific. I have submitted two additional requests to the Minister of Finance on the salaries of cultural workers, amounting to EUR 9.1 million for the following year. One part of this money, which is intended for a general 10% wage increase, would ensure that the wages of cultural workers would, to some extent, shift closer to the average of Estonia, including the average wage of the general government, which is significantly higher than that of cultural workers. The second part of this is an opportunity to move in the rhythm that we have agreed on in Culture 2020: by 2020, the salary of a cultural worker with a higher education must be at least at the level of Estonia's average salary. This assumes that we will have to raise the minimum by 13.5% next year. These are the steps that should not break the neck of the state budget, but which would provide an opportunity to meet the objectives set. I very much hope that the government will act in this way, and I hope that colleagues will support it. I also remind them of what Winston Churchill said at a very difficult moment. When he was proposed that funds to increase military expenditure could be temporarily taken at the expense of culture, he said that no way, for what would be the point of war?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U60	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U61	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! In the coming autumn, a good and necessary programme will be launched to promote recreational education, with a planned cost of EUR 15 million. The local government pays the salary to the teachers and drivers of the field. Can this programme also raise their salaries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U62	Thank you for raising another very important issue. When we talk about cultural workers with higher education, we are aware of those who work in the public sector and who are around 4000. But there are several thousand other people who are paid by the local government. Local authorities can also, for example, buy an activity service in a third sector and pay salaries to these people in this way. The concept of a support system for youth interest activities, which will start from 1 September 2017, results in an additional amount of EUR 6 million planned for the state budget. EUR 15 million per year for 2018, 2019 and 2020 is already foreseen, as this will be a full year. I'm sure it's one of the possibilities. I hope that, as a result, local authorities could raise the salaries of those who work in the fields of interest and culture. Of course, when it comes to cultural workers who are paid by local governments, this is not just a matter of interest, not all of these people are engaged in activities of interest. I hope that the additional resources that have been allocated to the local authorities agreed in the course of the administrative reform will provide an opportunity to raise the salaries of cultural workers. Of course, the idea of administrative reform is to improve the capacity of local authorities. This capacity should also be reflected in the fact that the local government, as part of the country, can take one step in terms of wages with the public sector. So I very much hope that the next time the TALO proposes to the representatives of local governments to negotiate the salary, then the real negotiations will follow and the local authorities will be able to start fixing some minimum level, less of which should not be paid in this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U63	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U64	The question is now being asked to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Marina Kaljuranna. Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U65	Thank you. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! As we know, presidential elections are approaching, the campaign is constantly gaining momentum, and several candidates already have a campaign team. According to information published in the public media room, your campaign team is also made up of Chancellor Rainer Saks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and your advisor at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Priit Kallakas. Can you confirm they're on your campaign team? How does this affect the performance of their duties in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Don't you see a potential conflict of interest when the people on the payroll of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs devote part of their time to your personal presidential campaign?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U66	Thank you for this question. I hereby confirm that Chancellor Rainer Saks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has nothing to do with my campaign or any possible campaign of a candidate for the presidency. Rainer Saks is the chancellor of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and only deals with the duties of Chancellor of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As far as my foreign policy advisor Priit Kallas is concerned, he is a career diplomat who will help me organise meetings arising from the duties of the Foreign Minister. Yes, Priit has expressed his willingness to help me volunteer in my time off from work, for which I am grateful to him. Yeah, I've used his services outside of working hours when he's volunteered to help solve issues related to being my candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U67	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U68	Thank you, Speaker of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! As I understand it, you reject the statement made in the Estonian Express, as the Chancellor of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would be working on your campaign team. I'm only happy for that. Now question two. I am simply asking for information because there is a discussion in society and there is a legitimate public interest in this subject. It's about editing the Wikipedia page that talks about you. Who exactly dealt with it, and was it outside working hours?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U69	Thank you for this question. Yeah, I don't have a campaign team like that. There are some volunteers who give me advice and help me. None of them are forced to do this, they are not members of the campaign team. I repeat, this will remain the case: I do not have a campaign team, these are people who volunteer for this job. As regards the Wikipedia article, namely the article concerning the Minister for Foreign Affairs there, in order to remove false information, it was edited by the Public Relations Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Yes, I admit that I did not know how to address this article earlier. For the first time, I began to read it in depth when I was asked about this article and showed that there were so many false statements. Yes, this data has been edited by the Public Relations Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have to stand by the fact that Wikipedia has only the right data about me.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U70	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! The day before yesterday, the honourable Prime Minister had the opportunity to speak in this very hall about Estonian foreign policy. He did so sympatheticly that he did not descend into the specific field of work of the Foreign Minister. However, a number of general government-level political decisions were clarified. What is important is that relations between the countries of the European Union are no longer a classic foreign policy, but they have their own specifics. Against this background, I asked a question about some of the embassies that have been mentioned today. But now I come to the same question from the other end. There are still and persistent talk about the Estonian embassy in Kazakhstan and its closure. On the other hand, the European Union's scientific community is expected to have an Eastern Partnership policy as a priority during our Presidency. Imagine, European scientists believe that we have greater potential! In this context, could it be possible to close the embassy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U72	I thank you for this question. Indeed, since Estonia became a Member State of the European Union, our foreign policy has changed. Many of the issues that were previously foreign policy issues are now the internal policy of the European Union, whether it be economics, agriculture, the environment or so. It is the classic foreign policy of a Member State of the European Union that is outside the European Union, i.e. relations with third countries. I specify that the European Union's Eastern Partnership policy covers six countries: Georgia, Ukraine, Moldova, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Belarus. The countries of Central Asia are not part of the Eastern Partnership policy. I will not speculate on the closure of embassies, because, as I said in reply to this question, I am prepared to discuss it in the Government of the Republic and as soon as the Government of the Republic has taken a decision, I am ready to introduce it to you. But I can assure you that before I made a proposal, I consulted entrepreneurs, several organisations and also the Riigikogu. That is why this process has taken more time than I would have wanted at first.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U73	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U74	Now a question for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U75	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! The Special Committee on State Budget Control, led by Kristjan Kõljala, has produced an excellent document, a report on fiscal policy. It's a rather recent document, so I don't know if you've had time to look into it or if your assistants have been able to do it. I ask you what your position on this report is. What are the actions and steps taken by the government in relation to this report? Are Real Activities Following?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U76	Thank you. Yes, I am broadly aware of the conclusions of this report. I noted a number of things from these conclusions that I myself encountered as the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for example. The fact that the explanatory statement on the state budget can always be made even clearer in order for Members to have the best possible overview of the subject. I think that some of the conclusions have also been drawn from the fact that perhaps the budget has not been drawn up every day, so some questions could be answered quite easily as to why the order of business is exactly as it is. But, yeah, I'm pretty sure there's a few suggestions here that could be implemented. In addition to the example of this explanatory memorandum, I think it would make sense for the Riigikogu, through its committees, to have an interest in budgeting specific areas already in the spring. For example, it is always possible for the Committee on Culture to invite the Minister for Culture and also the Minister for Finance to present the budget for culture, provided that there is already a stage in which the budget is starting to take shape. Then you can ask what are the priorities of the Minister of Culture in the government and so on. That, I think, would make sense. The Committee on European Union Affairs has done so in the past and will probably continue to take stock of the use of European Union money. I myself, as the head of the Commission in my own time, kept inviting ministers before the Commission to explain the state of play of the measures, the plans and the way the money has been used. I think it's worth doing now. I think summer's a pretty good time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U77	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U78	Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise reminded us all ten days ago in Postimees of the simple truth that the government is subject to the Riigikogu, not vice versa. In practice, however, the order of constitutional importance has been confused and is no longer bothered to hide it. This report also highlights the roles of the Riigikogu and the government in budgetary policy, especially in shaping the budget strategy. You have been able to try both occupations in your life, both that of the Riigikogu and that of the Prime Minister. What do you think is the role of the current government and the Riigikogu in fiscal policy, are they balanced, should changes be made here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U79	Thank you. I was a member of the Riigikogu nearly twice as long as I've been in the government. I am a strong advocate of parliamentary democracy; I consider Parliament's role to be very important. Since I have had the opportunity to work for two years as head of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and a little less than two years as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I believe that I have a fairly good overview of the possibilities for the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as a committee of the Riigikogu responsible for the budget, to participate in the budgetary process. I think that the best way to have a say is to regularly require members of the government to report. However, I do not agree with your assessment that in practice the government is not subject to Parliament in any way. On the contrary, the government does not have any opportunity to call Members of Parliament to account, but it is always possible for Members of Parliament to ask the government to report. In this way, too, it is always possible for parliamentary committees to invite either the Minister or the Minister for Finance in a specific area and to ask for explanations as to why such decisions have been taken. The government currently in office has also changed the fact that in spring we held additional meetings with the Prime Minister, before the meetings of the Minister of Finance, where we went through all the key priorities of the government union and we were good with ministers to have a financial cover for them in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U80	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Does the government also intend to amend the basic law on the state budget? Is it planned to change it in such a way that members of the Riigikogu can have more opportunities to participate and the budget can be more easily understood not only by members of the Riigikogu, but also by normally educated Estonian citizens? Right now, this document is very cryptic. Does the government have such a plan, or should we initiate it here in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U82	Thank you. However, I believe that the explanatory memorandum has been revised more comprehensively over the last five or six years and has also improved its quality. But I agree that you can always do even better. If, as a Member of Parliament, you have concrete proposals that need to be further clarified in the explanatory memorandum, they are, of course, welcome. I do not think it is necessary to amend the law to clarify the explanatory statement; rather, it is a matter of organisation. This readiness must, in any case, be available to the Ministry of Finance because, in the end, it is also in the interest of the government, so that Members can get as precise a view of the nuances of the budget as possible, so that they can understand what the government's considerations have been when it comes to making these decisions. Believe me, the lion's part of these choices is one that actually has very clear and reasoned reasons behind it. The question is how to bring these reasons to Members in as compact a volume as possible, so that they are in the same information room as the members of the government who, each day, when dealing with these issues and being in the budgetary procedure, may have a certain information advantage. That is why it must be stressed that all this information, which is available to the government, can also be written as clearly as possible for Members of Parliament. If there are any concrete proposals, I would ask for them to be forwarded to the Ministry of Finance. I'm absolutely sure the Treasury will take them seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U83	Honourable Riigikogu, it rarely happens that all eight registered issues are fully discussed. Thank you, Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Culture, for your good answers. But they only became possible because the members of the Riigikogu had very good questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U84	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the Wednesday session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U85	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am handing over a draft on the organisation of a referendum on the plan for the redistribution of immigrants in the European Union. On 23 April 2017, we propose to put the following question to the referendum on state life: 'Do you agree that the Republic of Estonia will participate in the redistribution of immigrants who have arrived in the European Union? ' I'll tell you a little bit about the background. On 22 September 2015, the Ministers of the European Union agreed to re-allocation between the Member States of 120,000 people in need of international protection. In the light of subsequent agreements, 160,000 people will be relocated, with a share of 550 people in Estonia. However, during the refugee crisis, or even during the migration crisis, a large number of illegals who, through fraud schemes, are trying to obtain refugee status have gone on the move. The European Union and its Member States have been unable to distinguish between illegals and people who are refugees under international agreements. Millions of immigrants have become a threat to national internal security and become a major economic burden for them. The referendums in Estonia have only been held twice: in 1992 for adoption of the Constitution and in 2003 for accession to the European Union and for amendment of the Constitution. We believe that the issue of immigration is such an important issue of strategic importance that it must also be consulted with the people in order for the government to have legitimacy to take on such commitments and participate in such distribution schemes at all. We also believe that 23 April 2017 is exactly the time, because it will be possible to prepare the campaign before then and then it will not be too late to allow certain people to arrive in Estonia on the basis of certain agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U86	Andres Ammas, please! Jaak Madison, is this a procedural question? I'm sorry, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U87	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. In what circumstances does the chairman decide to call the hall to order? It's impossible to listen to a waitress because the noise overreacts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U88	The chairman will take it up to you every time someone starts talking. This was not the best noise in the hall when the project transferor had already started his speech. Ladies and gentlemen, let us respect our colleagues who speak from this speaker. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U89	Honorable Chairman! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! According to two recent surveys on the shadow economy, the share of the informal economy in Estonia increased last year and the proportion of people who are in favour of paying envelope wages increased. This situation is undoubtedly a concern for the members of the Riigikogu and the cabinet. On behalf of six members of the Free Party Group, I have the honour to make an inquiry. The Minister of Finance will probably be able to figure out the answers for a long summer and come in the autumn with thoughtful answers and perhaps also suggestions on how the government could change its economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U90	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I have the honour to address an inquiry to Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal. 20 members of the Riigikogu have signed the inquiry and it talks about the situation in the state aviation companies. More than half a year has passed since the bankruptcy of the state airline Estonian Air and the establishment of the new airline Nordic Aviation Group and Transport Asset Management. However, there is still no clarity as to whether the government has acted more wisely in the creation of new airlines than in the conduct of Estonian Air's economic activities. There has certainly been no positive news in the media. A recent report by the National Audit Office pointed out that the government made a total investment of 72.7 million euros in haste and non-transparently when two new companies were set up, without making sure that the plans of the companies were feasible. As far as I know, neither company's board of directors has yet approved the company's business plan. There have been very different statements about Nordic Aviation's profits. Erik Sakkov, member of the management board of NAG, estimated that the company's nose is expected to rise to the water in 2018 and later estimates have been much more negative. We have a question about what the situation with these companies is and whether they are driving towards bankruptcy or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U92	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to pass on, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the draft law amending the obligation to leave and the law on refusal of entry. By doing so, we want to expand and clarify somewhat the grounds for the obligation to leave and the prohibition of entry. Among other things, we are dealing with cases where an alien has worked for or has reasonable grounds to believe that he or she has been in their service or is involved with a foreign intelligence or security agency. We will also consider cases where an alien encourages or has reasonable grounds to believe that he or she may incite religious or political hatred in Estonia, or he or she has contributed to the violation of human rights, which has led to the death of a person. It is also possible to apply a refusal of entry based on a threat assessment by security authorities or a refusal of entry in another European Union or NATO country without a Schengen refusal of entry being applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U94	The two drafts transferred will be processed in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act, and we will proceed in the same way under this Act with two inquiries. One message. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be an opening meeting of the Estonian-Macedonia parliamentary group in this Chamber. All in all, this group is called Eerik-Niles Kross. Let's do a presence check, please! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu at the plenary session, no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U95	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Defence Union Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the State Defence Penalty Penalty Act 212, initiated by the Government of the Republic. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, can we go to the vote? I am voting on the draft law amending the Defence Union Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the State Defence Penalty Penalty Act 212, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 87, there are no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Defence League Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the State Defence Penalty Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U96	The third reading of the draft radiation law 169 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft radiation law 169 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. by 82 votes to 7 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. Radiation laws have been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U97	The third reading of Bill 206 of Amendment to the Tobacco Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Tobacco Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 206. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 64) and 13 members of the Riigikogu with five abstentions. The law amending the Tobacco Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U98	The third reading of the Law on the Protection of Animals, the Law on Disease Control and the Act amending the Law on Trade in Animals and Animal Products and the Law on Import and Export of Animals and Animal Products initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 222 on the Law on the Protection of Animals, the Law on Disease Control and the Law on Trade in Animals and Animal Products and the Amendment of the Act on Import and Export of Animals and Animal Products, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu and 1 against, with no abstentions. The Law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, the Law on Disease Control and the Law on trade in animals and animal products and their import and export has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U99	Honourable Riigikogu! Next is the debate on the 'NATO deterrence in the Baltic Sea region: state of play and perspectives' as a key national issue on our agenda. Let me briefly talk about the procedure. We will start with the presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, which will last up to 20 minutes, following questions and answers to the rapporteur, which will also last up to 20 minutes. Then there will be a presentation by Minister for Defence Hannes Hanso, which will last up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers, which will also last up to 20 minutes. Then there is a presentation by Kalev Stoicescu, a researcher at the International Centre for Defence Studies, which lasts up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers, which also last up to 20 minutes. Honourable Riigikogu! Let me remind you that a member of the Riigikogu may ask a question to any rapporteur. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened, lasting up to one hour. At the request of the National Defence Committee, I propose to the Riigikogu that representatives of the political groups be given the floor first. As always, there is an opportunity in the discussion of a crucial national issue today, which the Commission has also used, that the Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the debate. Let's start the debate. Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U100	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on a key national issue initiated today by the National Defence Committee is primarily related to the public presentation of the report 'NATO deterrence in the Baltic Sea region: state of play and perspectives' and Estonia's expectations at the forthcoming NATO summit in Warsaw. Due to the significant change in the security situation in Europe in recent years and the approaching NATO summit, the Riigikogu National Defence Committee adopted a decision on 26 October 2015 to draw up a report on NATO deterrence. The Commission's report has two main objectives. Firstly, given the importance of the security issue, before the NATO Summit, the Commission wishes to give the Government of the Republic its consensual recommendations to strengthen the deterrent attitude in our region. Another equally important objective is to bring a wide range of subject-specific information to the wider audience through the material contained in the report, both for background knowledge and for broadening the debate. In order to draw up the report, the Commission organised 17 hearings, where representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Forces and security authorities, as well as security experts from Estonian think tanks, were invited to speak about NATO's deterrence. In order to better understand what is happening in the international security environment with its allies, the National Defence Commission organised external visits to Germany, Sweden, Poland, France and NATO headquarters in Brussels and Mons during the period under review (from October 2015 until April 2016. A delegation from the Belgian Parliamentary Defence Committee was hosted on the spot. Overviews of visits have also been included in the report. The report was drawn up using publicly available sources, mainly analyses of the Baltic Sea region's security situation and recommendations to governments. The fact that some of the information was intended for internal use or classified and could not be reflected in the text of the report meant certain limits to the detailed consideration of the subject matter of the report. At the same time, the conclusions and recommendations of the report also take into account sensitive information. At the same time as drawing up its report, the National Defence Commission commissioned the International Centre for Defence Research to analyse 'Strategic Balance in the Baltic Sea Region', where the conclusions and recommendations presented are incorporated into our report's conclusions and recommendations. The report is divided into four chapters. They focus on describing the basis of the changed security environment and Russia's anti-Western policy, NATO's presence in the Baltic Sea region and the security debate with critical importance for the future of the region in Sweden and Finland. The last chapter sets out the Commission's conclusions and recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, This report was driven by long-term changes in the wider global and narrower European security environment. The start of China's opening policy in 1978, the emergence of Islamic extremism in the 1980s, the break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991 and the historic accession of Europe in 2000 should be considered as major global drivers. These are groundbreaking influences which have already triggered difficult regional conflicts and which can be found in long-term global confrontations. It is extremely important for Estonia on the border of the free world to perceive and know the nature and impact of these major changes. In doing so, it is important that our own security policy is based on an extremely realistic assessment of the situation and on the conclusions and decisions drawn from it. It is important to Estonia that our allies feel a change in the security environment and, above all, an existential threat to the future of the alliance from Russia today. It is therefore extremely necessary to achieve a clear improvement at the NATO Summit in Warsaw in the targeting and strengthening of the Alliance's deterrence measures. At the first major press conference in 2016, at the end of January, the Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that the time for good relations with the West was over and would never return to the traditional relations we have had. In addition to the comments made by the Russian renewed national security strategy and the secretary of the Russian Security Council and former FSB director Nikolai Patrushev at the end of last year in interviews with Izvestija and the Rossisker Gazeta, it is clear that the Cold War with the West has never ended in the Kremlin's mind and has been going on consistently since 1945. Russia's current elite led by President Vladimir Putin, who respects the beliefs of Ivan Iljin, certainly knows one of the most famous ideas of this philosopher: 'After every attempt to divide Russia, and after every breakup, he will restore himself with the power of a mysterious antiquity spiritual identity. ' So now Western leaders, including the political decision-makers of the Baltic region, need to understand that, when measured with a longer historical perspective, relations between Russia and the West have, unfortunately, been rather conflicting and geopolitically competing for normality. The 1990s were perhaps the best time in the history of these relationships. At the annual meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Stavanger on 11 October 2015, Keir Giles, researcher at the United Kingdom Conflict Research Centre and Chatham House, stated that what surprises many about Moscow's current behaviour was really nothing more than the return of Russia to old grids. But it also gives us tips on how to deal with Moscow. Simply put, we have been in the same situation before. Indeed, as early as 1983, Master's student Jan Cody Gaudio of Monterey Naval School, who studied security aspects of the Baltic region, stressed that since the end of World War II, the Soviet Union, along with its satellites, had an obvious strategic advantage over Western countries in the Baltic Sea region. Thus, for example, the Warsaw Pact countries only had six times the predominance in the navy. This had created a situation in which the Soviet Union could achieve strategic success by an unexpected attack in the Danish Strait, for example, by avoiding nuclear war. The improved version of the preventive strike tactics had been developed in Russia in 1968 by Marshal Vassili Sokolovski. It is not excluded that Valeri Gerassimov, the current commander of the Russian General Staff, has used the ideas of Sokolovski, among other things, in his doctrine. At the time, Gaudio also highlighted the political aspects of the activities affecting the security of the Kremlin Baltic region, stressing in particular that neutrality and the Nordic security division were primarily in the interests of the Soviet Union. He wrote that the so-called 'Financing Policy' posed a greater threat to direct military intervention in Scandinavia. But most amazingly, today, the assessment of the security environment in our region by the U.S. Navy's retired Admiral Gaudio more than 30 years ago has been written yesterday. Listen to what he said then: 'In the Baltic region, it is very important to take a new look at the prepositioning of both vitality and equipment. Given today's state of the art, the modern war is developing very quickly and leaves little time for mobilisation. By supporting the forces of 'expedition philosophy' far from having such military or political significance as it was a few years ago. The Alliance must give up the idea that any defence or preparatory action in response to the Soviet Expansion would be considered as a provocation in the Kremlin. The protection of the allies, which may be considered weak, in itself creates an invitation to aggression. ' As early as 2011, the United Kingdom Conflict Studies Centre published a report entitled 'NATO-Russian relations starting status'. The report described temporary optimism in relations between NATO and Russia following the Lisbon Summit in November 2010 as only the last peak in a familiar and predictable cycle that has been repeated several times since 1991. The report said that no matter how many times the relationship was initiated or restored, it soon collapsed due to a fundamental conflict between the allies and Russia's strategic objectives. The report predicted that the next round would soon begin in a conflict with Russia. It is absolutely necessary to realise that our values and vital interests do not, unfortunately, coincide with those of Russia, the idea of getting used to and communicating with Russia from this point on. The greatest contribution we can make now to a peaceful and stable future for Europe is to understand and accept this fundamental conflict of interest. We either need to invest extensively and in the long term in dissuading Russia in the way Moscow sees it as significant, or we must be prepared to face the real risk of conflict. In our report, we also focused on analysing the latest versions of the Russian military doctrine and national security strategy. In short, it can be noted that both documents reveal anything other than the desire to promote substantive and conflict avoidance dialogue with NATO. This is a direct confrontation between NATO and the Western world and, unfortunately, has led to a continuation of the confrontation of the Cold War. It is important to stress that this attitude has developed in Russia since the second half of the 1990s. Ladies and gentlemen, In a speech held in Tallinn on 3 September 2014, US President Barack Obama said that defending Tallinn, Riga and Vilnius is as important to NATO as defending Berlin, Paris and London. Quoting the question in Marie Under's old poem, Who gives help? Now, now, now! ', Obama replied: 'NATO, including the armed forces of the United States! ' 'We come here for Estonia, for Latvia, for Lithuania. You once lost your independence. With NATO, you will never lose it again! ' the President of the United States confirmed. Since Russia's aggression against Ukraine, NATO has once again focused its head on ensuring collective protection. The steadily deteriorating security environment and Russian revisionist policies have put pressure on NATO countries to take deterrence measures, including the deployment of military capabilities on the eastern wing of the alliance. While the NATO Summit in Wales in summer 2014 was still discussing security measures in the eastern wing, the word 'disadvantage' is now the main term. It responds to a better-developed security situation and allows for a more precise formulation of the common policy. NATO must ensure a visible deterrent wherever there is a threat to the territory of the alliance. It is important to realise that the forthcoming NATO summit in Warsaw is only one sign of strengthening the alliance's collective defence. Following the meeting in Wales, the Alliance has clearly demonstrated its ability to react quickly and flexibly to changes in the security environment. The unity of the alliance, the decisions needed to resolve the problems and the rapid implementation of them are particularly important to us. Ladies and gentlemen, The report of the National Defence Committee ends with conclusions and recommendations to the Government of the Republic. I would like to stress that this is the consensus of all the political forces represented in the Riigikogu. The success of Estonia's foreign and security policy so far has been largely guaranteed by a common understanding of strategic choices based on the consensus of political parties. It is obvious that the more divided this debate would be and the more conflicting political parties' attitudes, the more vulnerable our country's security would be. The report's conclusions begin with a clear statement that the security environment in NATO's eastern neighbourhood, which has been strained in recent years, is of a long-term nature. Against this background, NATO must contribute to long-term solutions to enhance its collective defence. In order to ensure the collective defence of the alliance and the sustainability of capacity development, NATO's European allies in particular must contribute more to defence cooperation. This should be understood mainly as an increase in defence expenditure. On average, Europe's allies spend only 1.4% of their GDP on defence expenditure. Only five NATO Member States, the United States of America, Great Britain, Poland, Greece and Estonia, are currently fulfilling the political agreement to keep the protection expense at least 2% of GDP. It is critical to work towards strengthening the alliance's unity. At the same time, it should not be forgotten that allied relations function effectively in a crisis situation only if Estonia is able to give more priority to the functioning of its own defence capabilities. It is important that our domestic contribution to improving defence capabilities involves activities in a number of areas, from diplomacy to internal security. NATO's deterrence and the protection of the Member States need real reinforcement and the principles of NATO's deterrence need to be updated. The modernisation of emissions must be decided at the latest at the NATO Summit in Warsaw. At the same meeting, the allies must emphasise the importance of nuclear deterrence and its modernisation in order to prevent any country from miscalculating the possibility of using nuclear weapons. NATO's defence planning, which is now based on the transfer of additional forces and sanctions, must focus more on the deterrence and adequate pre-empted presence in the Baltic States, Poland and the entire Baltic Sea region. In order to avoid possible isolation of the Baltic Sea States, allies must contribute to A2/AD, a strategy for preventing access, with the crucial importance of ensuring the protection of the Suwalk Corridor. In order to achieve better containment, in the medium term, it is necessary to place a battleable unit the size of NATO allies to the brigade in every Baltic country, including Estonia, and its support elements. In this context, the Government of the Republic will need to analyse in detail the capacity development of the host country in order to create the conditions for the accommodation and training of the unit of the allies up to the size of the brigade. In doing so, it is very important that the greater presence of the Allied units in Estonia should be aligned as smoothly as possible with the training programmes of our own Defence Forces units. The National Defence Committee found that further pre-positioning of the NATO-Allies' heavy equipment and other equipment is necessary in Estonia and other Baltic countries. We also stressed in the report that, in the interests of national defence, it is necessary to ensure the readiness to move from NATO's Baltic air security mission to an air defence mission by increasing the number of allies in the region and of military aircraft and by establishing an adequate air protection system. In order to strengthen emissions, NATO's permanent presence in the Baltic Sea must be achieved in cooperation with its allies, national cooperation on maritime surveillance must be strengthened and the Estonian coastal defence system developed significantly in cooperation with the allies. In the report, the National Defence Committee draws attention to the consensus of Estonian political parties on defence expenditure, setting this as a good example. In doing so, we also propose (consensually) to consider increasing Estonia's defence spending, taking into account, first and foremost, essential capacity developments and the investment needs of the host country. The National Defence Committee stresses that NATO countries need to invest more in joint exercises, including collective defence activities in the Baltic Sea Region. It is also important to increase the capability of the US and the allies of the cyber- and electronic war in Europe, including closer cooperation with the NATO collective cyber defence centre in Estonia and the Estonian cyber exercise field. Both in the main text of the report and in the recommendations, the Committee on National Defence points out that a consistent contribution must be made to the effective involvement of Finland and Sweden in regional defence cooperation. The possible future accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO would change the security of our entire region towards greater stability and predictability. As the last recommendation of the report, the Commission supports such a dialogue between NATO and the Russian Federation, based on compliance with international law standards. It is in Estonia's interest to mitigate tensions with its eastern neighbour in a way that complies with international cooperation standards in line with the 21st century, where law and responsibility take precedence over force and threat. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U101	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, thank you for this report. I am just talking about these conclusions and recommendations. You said they were meant for the government of the Republic. It seems to me that they are more of the kind that we expect from our allies. Here we are talking about internal consensus and willingness to accept allies, but I will put the question in this way: what must we ourselves do and what must Latvia and Lithuania, our closest neighbours, to ensure deterrence in the area of national defence? I have on my desk two reports from the Centre for Defence Studies and the report by the so-called three generals and Jüri Luige, where this aspect is discussed in greater detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U103	Thank you, Andres, for a very good question. Indeed, if you read these conclusions and recommendations, which are a total of 19, then, of course, they, like the report in their title and content, take into account above all the international discussions that our Minister of Defence and other ministers, as well as the Commander of the Defence Forces, are holding with our allies in order to achieve the best possible result, both at the forthcoming defence ministers' meeting next week and at the NATO summit in Warsaw at the beginning of July. It is clear that the focus of our report, which we paid more attention to, was precisely this component that strengthens our security, which concerns the collective defence of the allies and the improvement of deterrence measures, mainly against the threats that we see emerging for NATO in the east. We discussed this in the course of this report, and in the recommendations you will find, as I have pointed out here, a whole series of points concerning self-defence. One relates to an area that we will definitely be in contact with in the very near future, namely the need for additional investment, both in the accommodation of the allied units arriving here and in improving the conditions for training. But undoubtedly, as the report says, under Article 3 of the Washington Agreement, Estonia's own contribution is extremely important, both investing in defence capabilities and, of course, the need to identify as a matter of priority those investment directions for additional capabilities that are important and which, very clearly, in the short term, would improve our defence capabilities. The National Defence Committee will certainly continue to work. As the report says, life will not stop after the NATO summit, on the contrary, very much work is just beginning, as we have seen since the Wales Summit. It is very important to us that the decisions that are taken be implemented as soon as possible. It is undoubtedly very important that we also ensure that our own defence forces work together with the major allies arriving.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U104	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. My question follows from your comment that there is probably a need to increase defence costs and that this has already been the case. When considering this proposal, has the National Defence Committee also been able to look at and analyse the use, feasibility, effectiveness, targeting of current defence expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U106	That's a good question. Thank you, Krista! Of course, every year, during the discussion of the defence budget, we thoroughly consider the priorities that the Ministry of Defence and the Government as a whole have decided to highlight about spending money. The Commission is very well equipped with state-secret information concerning our capabilities and various components of our defence capabilities, including those areas that will require greater investment capacity in the future or which we should pay more attention to. The Commission's debate, when we wrote this report and the recommendations, was very constructive. I would like to thank all the parties and their representatives in the Committee on National Defence for the constructive nature that emerged when we were talking about defence spending. As I mentioned, the recommendations set the example of this strong consensus, which is based on the understanding that Estonia's defence expenditure should be at least 2% of GDP. Believe me, also in an international context and in negotiations with our allies, this is very important capital. It is clear that it will be easier for us to ask our partners and allies for additional capabilities when we are ready to increase our defence capabilities. As regards the increase in defence expenditure, this is currently to some extent done with additional investments, such as the construction of barracks on Tapa military campus or the continued modernisation of Ämari airport. So certainly, as I said, the government will also have to make new decisions when both the ministers and the NATO summit as a whole have made their decisions. The Commission will certainly also meet on 11 July, even after the NATO Summit, to get feedback from the meeting and the decisions that are likely to require additional resources from us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U107	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! World practice has used, not very often, the option of trying to create demilitarised zones between the parties. Has such a question been raised in the case of Russia and NATO and, if so, could such a solution be possible and could it be in our interest at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U109	According to the information known to me, there has been no direct approach to bilateral relations between NATO and Russia. But, Mart, from your question, I would point out that NATO has repeatedly stressed its openness and readiness to engage in substantive constructive dialogue with Russia in recent years. It is true that a very big problem is the continuing aggression against Ukraine. Unfortunately, we see that the Minsk agreements have not moved in a direction that would allow tensions to be mitigated there and also to alleviate tensions between the alliance and Russia and improve relations between the European Union and Russia. When we talk about exercises, including those taking place on Estonia's territory, although they do not exceed the size prescribed by the Vienna Convention, Russia, for example, is still invited to participate as an observer, in order to ensure transparency and, perhaps, to demonstrate that our only and primary interest is to invest in our defence. All the opinions that have been said by Russia in particular, as if NATO's actions were directed against anyone, are not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U110	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U111	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! My question concerns point 18 of your conclusions and recommendations. The Finnish and Swedish MEPs have been a little upset at the meetings about why Estonians ask at each meeting when Finland and Sweden will join NATO. They interpret it as interfering with their domestic issue. What exactly have you been thinking about how Estonia could involve Finland and Sweden more effectively and influence them? It can be said that they have awakened from hibernation because Russia is testing their airspace, just as it has done to us in the last year and a half. However, the conviction that these countries should join NATO has not yet been so dominant.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U112	Thank you for a very good and important question. It could really be considered for a long time, but I'm trying to be as specific as possible. As I pointed out in the report, this has been highlighted in the report, and this substantive security debate, which has taken place in Sweden and Finland, is extremely important, especially at political level in the last few years. This is particularly important in order to strengthen the security of the entire region, the entire Baltic Sea region. It is quite obvious that if Finland and Sweden reached a political consensus at some point, we know that quite a considerable proportion of the political parties have openly declared their wish to join NATO, then this indisputably changes the security situation throughout the Nordic and Baltic regions. At these meetings, which we have also had with our Swedish and Finnish colleagues at the time of writing this report, we focused in particular on what colleagues in Finland and Sweden are currently doing in order to extend our cooperation in the Nordic region, as well as cooperation with NATO countries. The historical lesson of Baltops, which also takes place on the Finnish coast, cannot be left unchecked. So this cooperation is obviously expanded, and I think it is in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U113	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! You noted that only five countries have contributed financially to the development of NATO forces under the agreement. Do you think the Warsaw meeting will bring this matter to the agenda? Lately, the press has heard that some countries are still falling short of this contribution to NATO spending. Is this meeting expected to lead to a significant increase in expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U115	Thank you for a very important question. I think that, at both parliamentary and government level meetings on NATO, the amount of defence expenditure has been one of the most central issues in recent years. I can also speak today from the experience of the recent NATO Parliamentary Assembly that, when we met in Albania at the spring session a few weeks ago, this topic was raised again. If, a few years ago, it was difficult to assume that the reduction in defence spending would slow down, I believe that the bottom has now been achieved. A number of countries have already made very clear decisions on increasing defence spending in the coming years. For example, our very good neighbours Latvia and Lithuania, which still had a level of defence spending of less than 1% of GDP a few years ago, have decided that by 2018 or 2020 at the latest, their defence spending will also be 2% of GDP. But I am convinced that at the NATO summit, this issue will come into question because, if the average level of defence spending by the European allies is 1.4% of GDP, it is clearly below the level of capacity development required of us from the present threats, both from the South and from the East.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U116	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Lavrov recently announced that Russia was not going to attack any NATO country. In Finland, this has led to quite lively discussions and certain fears. Of course, it's hard to interpret his words, but maybe there's some way you can comment or give an opinion on what might be seen behind it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U118	Thank you. I'm sure that's a rhetorically interesting question. It must have made a good colleague, Timo Soini, think about it when he heard it at his meeting with Lavrov. But I don't think Lavrov was lying. Indeed, Russia would make an extremely disastrous decision if it decided to test the functioning of collective protection in one way or another. That is why we can be sure that the red line that goes along the Narva River remains the red line between NATO and Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U119	Thank you, Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the National Defence Commission. No further questions. Now please report to Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U120	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear Chairman, First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on National Defence for drawing up the report on NATO's deterrence and for organising today's debate. This debate is taking place at a very appropriate time: next week there will be a meeting of NATO defence ministers in Brussels and there will be exactly a month until the NATO summit in Warsaw. On the threshold of the summit, the security policy debate held in the Estonian Parliament has, in my opinion, a symbolic meaning. We are faced with a situation where Russia sees its main enemy in NATO and the West. This attitude is evident not from the speeches made by individual Members or high-level military personnel, but from the basic Russian defence documents signed by President Putin. The unpredictable behaviour of the Putin regime, the remarkable military presence of Russia beyond our borders, the complex exercises and the growing military capabilities are under consideration both in Estonia and in the capitals of our allies. It is clear that Russia's aggressive steps and its action against European and democratic values will continue for a long time. In addition, we have to deal with the growing extremism and terrorism and other threats. The security environment has been clearly strained in recent years, and there are no indications that the situation could soon improve. We are therefore in a position where we need a comprehensive and long-term solution instead of individual measures to improve the security of the region. Let me briefly introduce the new stance of protection and deterrence that we stand for. It consists of four oses, the first of which includes our independent defence capabilities, particularly well-equipped and combatable defence forces. The second component is the continuous presence of battle-powered allied forces on Estonian soil. Allied units must be large enough and capable of battle and must have clear defence plans and chain of command. Third, I will mention the Allied forces who will come to help Estonia if necessary. In order for this to work, it is necessary to contribute to these forces, infrastructure and exercises. The element of effective deterrence is also nuclear extinction. Our actions must be credible and convince the potential aggressor that Estonia will fight for its freedom in any case, and NATO will protect its allies with all the political and military power it has. What's our status today? The first breakthrough decisions to strengthen NATO's security in the eastern wing were taken at the last NATO summit in Wales. Although the starting point for these decisions was Russia's aggression against Ukraine, then the agreed NATO Preparedness Plan (RAP) refocused the alliance on collective defence and increased NATO's ability to respond to problems and conflicts. However, it is clear that this is not enough. Warsaw must offer a broader and more lasting view. We want to make decisions at the summit that offer long-term solutions to the alliance. As you know, work is currently being done in depth to increase the footprint of the allies in Estonia and NATO border countries in general. On the other hand, work is being done to strengthen NATO's capabilities and structures in general. All of this will be in focus at the forthcoming NATO Defence Ministers' meeting. It can be expected that in the coming weeks Russia will try to break NATO's unity and solidarity. We have repeatedly seen attempts by the eastern neighbour to divide this unity, but we must certainly not be intimidated by provocations or rhetoric. The unity of the alliance, the readiness of the allied states to defend their allies, both politically and militarily, is central to Estonia at the Warsaw Summit. Alliance unity is also the best deterrent; it is the foundation of NATO's strength. Before the summit, I also stress the need for greater commitment from the European allies, which is essential for a more equal sharing of resources and responsibility with the United States. The motivation of the US to contribute to the security of Europe depends directly on whether our own contribution to the security of both ourselves and the entire alliance is sufficient. At the NATO summit in Wales, countries pledged to halt the reduction of defence spending, to strive for a level of defence spending of 2% of GDP, and to spend 20% of the defence budget on investment and new equipment. Things have moved on for the better. The reduction in defence spending has largely stopped, and several allies increased defence spending last year. At the same time, there is still a long way to go, as only five other countries were able to fulfil the target of 2% compared to Estonia last year. I will now make a small correction for the previous speaker's speech: these countries are the United States, Great Britain, Poland, Greece and Turkey. It is worth pointing out that only thanks to the broad support of society and political parties can Estonia invest 2% of GDP in national defence. This has received a very positive response from our allies, as has the fact that we have a consensus among political parties on defence spending. Maintaining defence spending at least 2% of GDP is a very important part of Estonia's image as a trusted ally. Thanks to avoiding political attractions, we have been able to make important long-term protection plans. But in this security landscape, 2% of GDP can only have a minimum standard. It is reasonable that the investments necessary for the adoption of the allies are made in addition to this. Estonia does not expect or can expect anyone to care more about our security than we do ourselves. But we are not alone; we are supported by allies. Already today, it is certain that one of the main outcomes of the Warsaw Summit is the strengthening of the alliance's defence and deterrence stance in NATO's border countries. This includes increasing the presence of allies in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, dealing with Russia's ability to stop and a hybrid anti-war strategy. Since Russia has the ability to prevent NATO troops and equipment from being delivered, a tangible increase in the presence of the Allied forces is essential, as it makes deterrence even more credible. In the capitals of the allies, the understanding of this need is fixed, we have made great efforts to achieve this goal, and NATO is currently working on the allocation of new units. NATO is setting up a battle group the size of a battalion in each Baltic country. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that the presence alone does not guarantee a credible deterrent. This must be supported by the readiness of the forces for rapid deployment of additional forces, pre-location of equipment and NATO plans for rapid support of the allies, together with regular exercises where these plans are actually practiced. Estonia has consistently emphasised the importance of all this in NATO. Recently, we conducted a NATO CMX 2016 exercise focusing on security issues in our region. Such exercises are very valuable, and these lessons are extremely important to us. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Listeners! The capacity of Russia to restrict access to our region, as the term is in English, is problematic for NATO, the threat of Anti-Access/Area Denial, A2/AD, built by Russia in Kaliningrad. In order to avoid isolation of the Baltic Sea States, the allies must contribute to the control strategy. Ensuring protection of the Suwalk Corridor on the Polish-Lithuania border is crucial. Increasing the presence of allies will help against the threat of A2/AD, which will improve the primary defence capabilities of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania as well as Poland's ability to protect Suwalk Corridor and help to keep the transition routes of the support forces open. There is no way to underestimate wider peacetime activities, such as exercises, air security, NATO naval groups, which demonstrate the determination of the allies and show that the aggressive rhetoric of some countries does not in any way restrict the activities of the alliance on their territory, but also within the airspace or at sea. NATO is a nuclear alliance. Nuclear deterrence is and will remain the ultimate guarantee of NATO's security. NATO plans to update the nuclear detonation. It is therefore important to send a strong message at the level of heads of state from Warsaw about the credibility and continued relevance of NATO's nuclear deterrence. In addition, NATO plans to pay more attention to the South threat strategy. I am pleased to note that Estonia's seven ongoing foreign operations help to promote stability beyond NATO's southern borders. Hopefully, this hall will soon give a mandate in this Riigikogu to send our instructors to Iraq to help this country fight against ISIL. Once again, we can only be strong if we stand together against all threats. Good Riigikogu! Good guests! Both the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces work every day to strengthen Estonia's independent defence capabilities. In this way, two fully armed and equipped infantry brigades will be finalised in the framework of the 10-year development plan for the period 2013-2022. We have made substantial investments to increase the fighting capability of the Defence Forces and started creating armoured manoeuvring capabilities, acquired infantry battle machines CV90 and modern, third generation anti-tank systems Javelin. The Military Military Rapid Response Team has 21000 well-trained and well-trained active troops and reservists. We checked the functioning and effectiveness of the mobilisation system last year during the major study at Siil. The hedgehog proved our defense model works and works well. This spring, we arranged an unannounced preparedness exercise for the Defence Forces and the Defence League to check their readiness. If necessary, we'll have more exercises like this. The national defence development plan developed in cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces for the years 2013 Naturally, in order to protect Estonia, medieval anti-aircraft is needed, just as we also need tanks, mobile cannons and beach defence. This year, the Defence Forces officers and the Department of Defence officials will prepare a national defence development plan for the next ten years, where we will decide what capacity we will be able to develop next. We need to be realistic when planning defense. Clearly, we can't do everything at once. The Estonian national defence shield, if you could say so, is the primary defence and the sword is collective defence. It is NATO's collective defence that fills those power gaps that would otherwise go beyond the limits of our resources to a country the size of Estonia. Air security offered by the allies is a classic and very good example here. The fastest way to protect our airspace is to bring allied anti-aircraft missile systems to Estonia, including long-range anti-aircraft missile systems Patriot, just as NATO allies have done in Turkey, for example. With our defense planning, we're on the ground with two legs. We do not plan to create new powers that we cannot keep alive in a sustainable way because of limited resources. But we can use our own resources more efficiently and prudently. Currently, for example, Estonia's ability to operate at sea is divided into three departments: the Police and Border Guard Board, the Maritime Administration and the Navy. I believe that national cooperation on maritime surveillance needs to be stepped up and more effective maritime surveillance based on existing capabilities. Over the next four years, we intend to allocate money to the acquisition of long-range anti-tank missile systems and new handguns, and to the development of intelligence and early warning systems, as well as to significantly complement ammunition reserves. NATO takes the defence of our region very seriously. I mention the current exercises involving literally tens of thousands (almost 50,000) of allied and partner states' defence forces. The Baltic Sea currently has naval training in Baltops (49 ships, 1 submarine, 61 aircraft), with a focus point in Estonia starting next week Saber Strike (10000 Defence Forces), 16 (31000 Defence Forces, 3000 vehicles, 105 aircraft, 10 warships) in Poland. The European United States Command will demonstrate the presence of its forces and freedom of movement in Europe in the course of the Dragon Ride. Today, the troops of the United States should cross the border of Estonia in Valga. It must be remembered that the summit that we have already talked about is not the end of the journey, it is just one kilometer post, or, if you wish, a very important signpost. We must not lose our guard or get tired after Warsaw. Decisions taken in the capital of Poland must be implemented as quickly and effectively as possible. Today, NATO is developing its meeting and making efforts to ensure that each decision is accompanied by an operational programme with specific deadlines. NATO's credibility will suffer if declarations do not follow concrete steps in the near future. Just as the city of Tallinn will never be finished, NATO's defence and deterrence stance will never be completed. It can also be said that security, as such, will never be finished, must always work for it. But deterrence and dialogue are not contradictory, but mutually supportive actions. Estonia supports the dialogue between NATO and the Russian Federation, which is based on compliance with international law standards. I think that dialogue could help to avoid misunderstandings and miscalculations. However, regular cooperation is excluded as long as Russia does not stop the aggression in Ukraine and annexation of Crimea and does not return to compliance with international law. So we are about to face the historic Warsaw Summit, which confirms NATO's new and more effective deterrence and stronger presence in our region. The message from Warsaw offers additional security and security for Estonia. This message also reaches the ears of a potential aggressor. NATO defends each of its allies with all its political and military powers. Each aggression is followed by an inevitable and severe counterattack. NATO's strengthened collective defence is the cornerstone of both European and Estonian security. Good listeners! Once again, I congratulate the authors of the report for their thorough and expert recommendations, which of course I agree with. Finally, however, I would like to highlight another issue that is not reflected in the report. NATO and the unity and solidarity of the European Union can never be one-way. We cannot only be consumers of security, but we must also contribute ourselves. We must be prepared to be involved in tackling both global and regional concerns, whether it be the resolution of the refugee crisis, the fight against terrorism or other critical situations. Without it, it will not be possible to rely on understanding of other countries and simply to assume that the allies will come to our aid at a difficult time. I will say straight away that these political forces, some of whom are also represented in this Chamber, who are heating up a foreign rage, pose a clear security risk to us. Instigating hatred and intolerance in Estonian society directly serves the Kremlin's interests. If the messages of these forces were to win, and our allies would be forced to treat us as xenophobic, racist, and closed small countries, then I ask rhetorically who would win, who would rub hands with joy? I think we all know the answer. Estonia must be able to keep its image as if we are a country that is wanted to be protected. It is clear that the Kremlin would like to separate Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland from the common policy of NATO and the European Union. In fact, we see such efforts all over Europe. Therefore, those who deal with the division of European unity and extreme populism are acting in the interests of the Kremlin. Ridiculous stories about what we have heard in this very hall, how the Estonian state is managed from Kentmann Street or that Estonia is a puppet of the United States, only feeding the Kremlin propaganda machine. It is also the same objective that is being pursued in any way to call into question the validity of Article 5. I assure you from this remote that Article 5 applies, an attack on an ally is an attack on all the allies. Those who recognized themselves from what I said could recall what happened to the independence of the Republic of Estonia once. I very much hope that you will be able to find your sense of security responsibility in the shadow of your desire to achieve cheap popularity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U121	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, History has repeatedly proved that the best and most effective deterrent is the balance of power. If we look at what is happening at the borders of NATO and Russia, then, yes, NATO, on the one hand, is increasing its forces, for example, in the Baltic States and Poland, but on the other hand, Russia is pressing for the arms race and trying to maintain a situation where this balance of forces is not really there. Perhaps this is a bit of a speculative vision, but how do you think this problem could be resolved in the long run, so that the real balance of power can still be realised?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U123	Thank you. I think that this issue, which can also be called speculative, is justified in any case. If we look at NATO as a whole, of course the balance of forces in NATO is 28 Member States, including the United States of America, clearly in favour of NATO. I do not know whether, in this context, we should necessarily separate countries according to national borders. The important thing is that the deterrent attitude is convincing in the whole picture. Of course, it is quite right, to which you also referred, that in the Western military community, some 350,000 well-equipped and trained Russian military personnel are well-trained. By putting the bill on the table, everyone will understand that the numerical advantage in our region is, if we look only at our region, Russia. However, I do not think that, in the present situation, we should try such a cold-war approach that a man, a division division, a warplane against a warplane or a nuclear warhead against a nuclear warhead. I think the most important thing for us is for everyone to understand, both our allies and certainly the opposite team across the border, that we are absolutely firm and strong in our deterrent attitude in military and political terms. As has been said, Article 5 applies and Russia simply needs to understand it. But we have also moved much forward in NATO's operating logic. NATO has returned to its fundamental values, so to speak. In the meantime, when we found that conflicts and threats were further away from our region, Wales was a stage when NATO clearly moved back towards European defence. The second stage will now come in Warsaw, I think, where we will seal this movement. As the speech said, this is not an end point, it's just a journey. I think that the strength of the security organisation, the collective defence organisation, is that it can respond to the needs. I can't say that if we get an ally battalion here, it's the end of some kind of journey. Maybe the situation in Russia will change, and we can wave to these battalions one day and thank them goodbye, but maybe we need to bring more of these units here someday. We need to be flexible and responsive. Let's look at history that's happened before. At the summit in Wales, we responded to the events in Ukraine; we also reacted in terms of planning Estonia's defence with the acquisition of Javelins, for example. NATO air security was brought to Ämari, which we did not have here in Estonia before, within a few days after the occupation of Crimea. We must continue this open communication and work to ensure that our allies want to be here when we have problems. It doesn't matter if we protect Jõgeva, Narva and Kärdla or Seattle and Paris. Estonia is exactly the same NATO territory. Just a few days ago, the government visited the Estonian border. This is where NATO begins or ends, depending on where to look. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U124	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U125	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. NATO is known to mean the United States of America in particular. Obama's statements inspire confidence. If it kept going! Soon, however, there will be a new president in America. Can this not bring about changes for Estonia too? After all, at least one presidential candidate has said that you first have to look at things in your home and only then at what is outside.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U126	Thank you for your question. Of course, these are things that we need to think about and take into account. But you don't have to go back too far in history. I recall that the presidential candidates in the United States in the early 1990s spoke exactly the same story, but in fact there were quite a number of large-scale interventions abroad. I believe that our cooperation with the United States is not based on individuals if we can work better with one person but worse with the other, but on institutions and transnational relations. Of course, I agree that the United States' contribution to the functioning of NATO as an organisation is absolutely invaluable and that the United States' contribution to the allocation of money or resources is very extensive. However, I sit every time there is a meeting of NATO defence ministers, as is equal among equals. 28 Member States are at one table, and we all have a say. It is not the case that no one listens to the opinions of others, and the United States, like it alone, is shaping the positions of an organisation like NATO. That is certainly not the case. I believe the questioner here referred to Donald Trump as the presidential candidate. Yes, European countries must contribute more to their own protection, that is perfectly understandable. That is the position that we have been standing up for in public all along. Our flag is very high and it is reflected, I would say, in the politics of the United States in our region as well. Those who respect their commitments honestly have also received some special treatment. I think that makes perfect sense. The fact that I can look all my colleagues in the eye with confidence has helped us to establish such a position that, wherever national debates are under discussion, the increase in defence costs is being set as an example. I believe that Estonia has had a very important role to play in the fact that, for example, in Latvia and Lithuania, this debate has moved in the very right direction. Latvia will increase its defence costs by 40% this year, moving quickly towards 2%. Lithuania is increasing them by more than 30%, with Lithuania's defence expenditures exceeding those of Estonia for the first time this year. Quite a paradox, because the country of Lithuania is considerably bigger than ours. This has been a very influential and powerful argument in internal politics. I have heard that this issue has been raised in debates in Great Britain as well as in Denmark, for example. I believe there are many examples. So I fully agree that European countries must contribute more. The reduction in defence spending in the meantime was short-sighted and now we are changing this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U127	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The report of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu contains recommendations and conclusions. My attention was drawn to paragraph 11 because it concerns the Baltic Sea, which means that people living on islands too. It says here that in order to strengthen deterrence, NATO's permanent presence in the Baltic Sea must be achieved in cooperation with its allies. Not in the Baltic Sea, but in the Baltic Sea. Is it possible to explain to someone like me what this could mean in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U129	Thank you for your question. As I mentioned, we have dozens of allies' warships here. We're talking about the presence of allies' warships. These include not only vessels on the surface of water but also submarines. So there is an increased presence to provide a guarantee that the sea will also be securely protected. I want to bring another dimension to our non-NATO neighbours. It is today that the Swedish Minister for Defence, my good colleague, is in the United States, where the agreement on defence cooperation between Sweden and the United States was signed. This cooperation has recently deepened considerably. For example, the military has also vigorously returned to the island of Gotland, which is a very important strategic point for us, precisely to take away from Russia the possibility of controlling certain points in the Baltic Sea from the air and from the sea. So we need to look at this more broadly. I do regard Finland and Sweden as very close to us on this issue, allies de facto. On 25 May, if I remember correctly, the Swedish Riksdag passed a law allowing them to participate in NATO exercises, which are not necessarily of a peacekeeping nature, but are a practice of cooperation with NATO. It's also about naval training. In this sense, we have moved in the very right direction as a whole. In our opinion, it is very reasonable and up to date that the Baltic Sea has more foundations for allies than before.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U130	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U131	Good manager! Good minister! Have you analyzed how far we can go without losing Russia's patience, the risk of a military blow becomes real, and Estonia will fall between the hammer and the anvils? Specifically, how many brigades and several Abrams tanks and how many and which missiles could we place on the territory of Estonia without exceeding this critical limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U132	Thank you. Here is NATO territory, which is also the territory of the Republic of Estonia that we defend. Like I said, I don't want to start counting all these tanks and how many they need, whether they're Abrams or something else. What's important is that the opposite team realizes that there's no point in coming in here to poke, because there's gonna be enough counterattack. How many tanks can we plant here? I don't think that's a topical question. What is important is that the presence of the allies here, even though on a rotating basis, is convincing, and everyone understands that we are not left alone in a possible conflict, being a party to the conflict. This party is 28 countries that are part of our common collective defence organisation. I would not want to swallow this hook at all, whether we have provoked Russia in any way. I think that if Russia had not simply amputated the two regions of Georgia, Abkhazia and South Ossetia of the sovereign nation state in 2008, if in 2014 Crimea had clearly not been illegally annexed, if it were not for what is happening in Eastern Ukraine, NATO's presence in our region would probably have been limited to some of the allied forces participating in the exercise. Surely we wouldn't have talked about any battalions or all that. Of course, our own troops are NATO troops. We react to the situation, not the other way around. I think all rational people will understand that we're not trying to break any rubber here, on the contrary, we want the tension to loosen up a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U133	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U134	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! We realized that you are trying to attack and blackmail the EKRE here, but you and your party mates are not worth responding to the low-lying, smug and Stalinistic attempts to blackmail the EKRE. However, you wrongly accused the EKRE of violating Estonian and NATO allied relations. On this I ask how you feel about the statements made by your own political party's leading member, the former party leader, who has repeatedly compared Donald Trump, who is very likely to become the next president of the United States, Hitler, with our leading NATO allies. Do you think that's the way the Socats strengthen allied relationships and make friends?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U135	Thank you very much for your question. If I understand correctly, your question concerned the presence in the Baltic Sea, the navy, the maritime component. Yes, indeed, when we think about the naval exercises of NATO countries in the Baltic Sea, this year's Baltops, which has just begun, is the most spectacular exercise that has ever been. In our report, we have drawn attention to two aspects. In our opinion, the permanent NATO Navy Group No 1 or SNMG1 is not sufficiently well-equipped with such vessels as it should be. This group needs to be strengthened. Secondly, the presence in the Baltic Sea is not sufficient either. This represents short-term visits and we have seen that the NATO fleet group is located in the North Sea rather than in the Baltic Sea. However, we cannot only talk about NATO Fleet Group 1, but we must also talk about the individual allies who are sending their warships to the Baltic Sea for visits and missions, especially the United States of America. You have to look at this picture as a whole. The situation has improved, especially in recent months, but there are things that can be done even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U136	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stoicescu! There was one point in your review where you said that NATO's superiority over Russia is quite obvious in many parameters and, above all, it concerns economic superiority. It has actually been going on for quite a long time, isn't it a new thing, and it hasn't taken these tensions off in any way. How do you assess the impact of sanctions on both Russia's economic capacity and the development of military capabilities? What are the consequences of the collapse of Western unity in the matter of sanctions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U138	Thank you, Andres Herkel! This is a question that we did not address in our report, but I myself have taken an interest in it, which is why I can answer. It is very difficult to assess the impact of economic sanctions by the European Union, the US and, at all, the West on the Russian economy as a whole. However, Russia itself, through the mouth of its Minister for Economic Affairs, has acknowledged that sanctions reduced Russia's GDP by 2.5.3% last year. This is their assessment of the real impact of sanctions on Russia's GDP, or economy. How have the sanctions affected Russia's military plans? Yes, however, this effect has been felt. Some pretty good defence companies have remained functional in Russia since the old days. They've been able to develop some pretty good new weapons systems. But in order for the system to be a perfect and complete system of the new generation, the last generation, it must contain all kinds of very complex high-tech components that Russia is not always capable of producing itself. So the fact that it is forbidden to export certain components to Russia, to which Russia very much hoped and which they bought from France, Italy or other countries, has undoubtedly affected their ability to quickly develop their own systems. Now they're trying to produce certain things themselves. In fact, the disruption of economic cooperation between Ukraine and Russia has had a major impact on the same aspect, as Russia imported a very large number of ship and aircraft engines and all other strategically important things from Ukraine. It is not as easy to start producing themselves; it takes the right years to create such a capacity. But it is generally clear that Russia is making great efforts to move forward with its national arms programme. That is, as I said in my presentation, the top priority of this country. President Putin has openly said that there are two areas in which he is trying not to infiltrate'scissors' until the end and to reduce expenditure: pensions and defence budgets. However, it can be seen that they have, however, been forced to reduce defence costs and to postpone certain projects as well. Just don't have the money you need.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U139	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When the situation in which Russia currently exists is briefly summarised and described, firstly, it is characterised by an increase in the armed forces several times beyond the need for protection, secondly, by the development of an attack and, thirdly, by Russia's economic situation requiring resources to be used elsewhere than for arms. This means that Russia is actually imposing on NATO an arms race in a situation where its own economy is not able to withstand it. If we assume that Russia does not intend to use these weapons, then I believe that this activity is completely irrational. I would rather conclude that Russia intends to use this weaponry. Perhaps he does not intend to use them against NATO, because it would be obvious suicide. I assume there are no such intentions in Russia. However, how do you see Russia's motives? This quantity of weapons, which has now been developed, and this armaments cannot only be based on the assumption that Russia's political or diplomatic weight in the world is greater. There's probably more to it than that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U141	Thank you very much, Mart, for the question. This question can be answered in many ways. I have made a point of our conclusion, which is very clear that Russia has placed precisely in the west, against NATO, its most modern armaments and the most capable military forces. But it is clear that Russia extends to the Pacific and Vladivostok, and from there comes another dimension, which Russia must probably take into account. On the other hand, if you look at the direction that the Russian President and the government have taken, you can see that the defence industry is just like the engine for the development of the Russian economy in order to promote the Russian economy. This is déjà-vu, we saw the same in the USSR in the 1970s and 1980s, which finally collapsed. But the truth is that it worries everyone when one country, which, moreover, is a totalitarian state and has already shown that it is ready to use force, armed to the teeth and producing so many and so good weapons. I guess he's still doing it to use them. That is indeed a logical conclusion. Can he use them somewhere else, we don't know that. But as far as our region is concerned, as we can see, we are trying to make sure that there is no conflict and that these weapons are not used here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U142	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you very much for your report and report. My question concerns the United States and their impact on NATO's changing policies. Since you, who have such experience, can see that, with the new President in office, there could be quite a change in NATO policy, just because America is one of the main drivers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U144	Thank you very much for your question. That's a very difficult question. I would not like to speculate in this Chamber on who could become President of the United States. Indeed, there must always be a revelation that changes may come, but they may not be the most negative ones. Whatever one or another presidential candidate has said during the election campaign in the United States, I do not believe that NATO is an organisation that will be dissolved like the Warsaw Treaty Organisation in 1991. Of course, it may be a cause for concern if the US turns more into itself and loses interest in Europe's defence and security in general. Again, these are trends that evolve over the years. We have the opportunity, I believe, to make political efforts, both within NATO and bilaterally or multilaterally, to prevent this. Let us remember, for one thing, that, in 2008-2009, President Obama was the one who proclaimed the turn for Asia (Pivot to Asia), which many took in such a way that the centre of world affairs is now there, and the China-Pacific region is the most important. Many in Europe concluded that interest in us has now been lost. It took a few years, President Obama came to Tallinn in September 2014 and now they are facing us again. These events and attitudes are sometimes very difficult to predict, but our task is to try to avoid the most negative option for us. But the alliance is strong. The headquarters will be moving across the road in Brussels at the beginning of next year, so I want them to have a long and successful life.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U145	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U146	Good manager! Good waitress! You speak silently, but your message is frightening. I quote: 'President Putin would certainly prefer not only to tease the alliance and risk serious losses, but instead to give a death blow to NATO, i.e. to carry out a scenario involving the separation of the Baltic States from the rest of the alliance's territory and their possible occupation. " You are saying that it is likely that everything will begin with an unexpected incident that is going over to a restricted invasion. Please describe to us how it might look and where it could happen, either in Sillamäe or in Põlva! So who's used there, Ostrov helicopter brigade or Pihkva spetsnaz? What would that look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U147	Thank you very much for your question, Mr Ernits. You yourself answered that question in many ways. One part of our report really deals with the likely 'black' scenario. Most analysts who think about this subject at all do not do this to intimidate other people or themselves, but they think about it because they are concerned about their country so that they can find better solutions. If we are talking at all about building our national defence and worrying about our security, then we must also have some concrete idea of what scenario we consider most likely, otherwise it will not be possible to engage in defence planning. Most people think that the most likely scenario is the so-called hybrid scenario that we have seen in Donbass, green men, etc. I guess I don't have the point of repeating it. Everyone knows what it is. We did not consider this likely as a fundamental effort if this situation were to become a conflict at all, but rather a pretext to start operations, military or non-military. Rather, as I said in my presentation today, we have reason to believe that if Russia decides to descend the avantral, I very much hope that this will never happen, it will do so exactly according to the practiced scenario, as they did in December 2014 in the Baltic Sea and around us, when they imitated cutting off the Baltic States, acting very quickly. The study lasted a total of five days. Let us remember that the same exercises took place in the North Caucasus and also near Ukraine before the events in Georgia in 2008 and Ukraine in 2014 started to develop, while Russia then used exactly the same practiced scenarios, exactly the same forces, etc. We've seen everything they're preparing for and what they're practicing, they're not just practicing. Our job is to discourage them. Okay, practice, but you're never gonna implement a plan like this because you just can't get out of it as a winner. In this sense, this deterrence is not a question. Russia sees the security environment in the Baltic Sea region through its prism in such a way that they should dominate, at least in the eastern or eastern parts. NATO has no attempt to dominate, they want balance, they want neither side to dominate or feel so capable that it can descend against the other side, to initiate a conflict. This is our aim, so that Russia does not feel dominant in this region and as a'military host', who at one point might think of an idea, but why not fatally hurt NATO. That is because Russia's political thinking still holds this nightmare question as to why the Warsaw Pact broke up, but NATO still exists. They'd love to see the North Atlantic Alliance disband. If there was any way they could contribute to this, they would think it would be very good. I can't answer your question any better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U148	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U149	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I listened to your report. We have, in a sense, become the front line between NATO and Russia. If Western investors read this report, what would force them to invest in Estonia? If you read the report, it is clear that everything here is unpredictable. What would make Estonia invest? Can You Answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U150	Thank you very much for your question. I think that the expected decisions of the Warsaw Summit will certainly give a great deal of assurance that the security environment in this region will improve. Perhaps Moscow's rhetoric is really trying to simmer, that it is just like the arms race launched by NATO, the rigging of tensions, etc. But that's not how I see it. We have simply responded to Russia's real steps to ensure its security. The more secure our security and protection are, the better investors will feel. Moreover, our investment environment is very good and so it is in the Baltic Sea region as a whole. I also said at the beginning of my presentation that we do not see any rational reason for anyone to break the peace in our region. This would not perhaps be done for the Baltic States, but precisely for the West as a whole and for the European Union, of which Russia is obviously angry for sanctions, and also for NATO to give one true lesson, to humiliate them, etc. This is a political game with a very high and high reach. I have not seen any indication anywhere that the interest in investing in Estonia and in our region at all has been significantly reduced as a result of this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U151	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On the proposal of the Committee on National Defence, I have a request that representatives of the political groups be given the floor first. No requests for speech... Yes, it is. Andres Herkel, please, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U152	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I saw Johannes Kerd's speech ready and waited for him. But it is not quite the case that the political groups do not want to speak in the debate on such an important issue. First of all, the Free Party undoubtedly supports the objectives reflected in the report of the Committee on National Defence. For our part, this debate on a key national issue that ends without a decision could also end with a decision. After all, we are extremely close to a decision-making consensus here that the Warsaw Summit must end with decisions that would contribute to deterrence in our region, the Baltic Sea region, and improve our security situation. There are problems around us, especially as a result of our eastern neighbour's various activities. The history of this activity from Chechnya, Abkhazia and South Ossetia to events in Crimea, Ukraine, Syria, etc. is quite disgusting and these events are a threat to us as well. I think that, apart from the consensus on defence expenditure, another consensus is needed. It is that the political forces should also be spokespersons in the plan concerning the greater presence of the Allied forces in Estonia and the arrival of these people, not only by the financial support of their adoption. Here and there, there is still this naive reasoning about whether it is needed and why it is needed and what dangers it may pose. I think that our role, the role of all political forces, is to explain why it is necessary for our security. In the current situation, Estonia cannot remain alone. As we are talking here about consensus and understandings that should unite the opposition and coalition in defence and security matters, I did not consider it very appropriate for the Minister of Defence to prove to a party in the back corner of the hall. Yes, I do not always like the tone or the way in which the EKRE deals with some of the problems, but the honourable Minister of Defence has just begun, and in this debate I do not think this is appropriate. We must certainly consider that we are in a geopolitically difficult situation. The most important thing, obviously, is that NATO would give a clear signal to Russia that a conflict of limited scope is simply not possible in today's world, or any conflict will have wide geographical and global consequences. It's not like there can be a conflict with one member of the alliance. Everything that starts at the Estonian border has consequences for NATO as a whole. In this sense, I may not quite agree with Kalev Stoicescu's one reference when he said something about that it wasn't exactly the time of the Cold War. I think NATO is actually back in the pretty cold war situation, because as close as Tapa has been to Russia's borders in the past. Clearly, efforts are being made to limit deterrence and not necessarily to prepare for war. If they were prepared for war, maybe these troops should be somewhere else. But it is certainly in all our interests that the additional presence of NATO allies in all the Baltic States be increased. A thousand men, I understand, are in all three countries. This may not be enough in a war situation, but we hope that this will be enough for a political deterrent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U153	Thank you for your question. However, I will also answer the first part of the question, which, in your opinion, a good questioner, did not need any comments. Yes, I meet my colleagues from the entire alliance almost every day, sometimes these meetings take place in a larger format, sometimes smaller. I assure you that the issues I have mentioned are very much on the agenda. They're under the glass all the time. If this thing gets out of control, there is also a very clear potential here for tightening our allies or worse. I wouldn't underestimate the subject. I didn't say it here because I'm not worried about it and I want to score some points. It's not like that at all. Actually, that's just the situation. Now the second part of the question. We don't choose the President of the United States, that's pretty clear. My point is that we must work with any administration. I also have my preferences on this issue, but I will keep them to myself. There are two candidates left, and you can draw your own conclusions. I think the alliance is viable, and it will continue to be so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U154	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U155	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! It is sad to hear that political non-culturalism is accepted at ministerial level. Please don't go along with this in the future. This actually affects NATO's sense of unity as a whole, in the sense that NATO's unity can be measured not only by weapons and physical presence, but also by its emotional integrity. My question would have initially touched on the Presidential elections in the United States, because security experts have pointed out that which candidate becomes president has a very large impact. My specific question is now: what have the concrete proposals of the Government of the Republic of Estonia to NATO on maintaining emotional integrity and military activities over the last quarter?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U156	Thank you for your question. We have three very clear objectives on our way to Warsaw: a substantial increase in the presence of the allies, prepositioning and the Baltic States, including Estonia, of course, being part of NATO's long-term planning process. We also have a very clear objective so that we can harness our very strong and extremely important niche capabilities in the cyber field. We want NATO to declare the cyber domain a separate domain of warfare in Warsaw, apart from the fact that separate domains are land, air and water. For this we have stood for a very long time and we want to be very active in doing so, and I am also thinking of NATO's cyber exercise field in Estonia. As far as political culture or cultural deprivation is concerned, NATO brings together countries where democratic practices are deeply rooted. I also do not like some debates in some countries, but we have always been able to put our backs together on security issues. In my opinion, the value-based approach to the world in NATO will certainly continue. I agree in principle that political correctness and culture are probably never enough, but if you look at all the countries that belong to the organisation, I believe that the will and sensible approach of the people will win.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U157	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U158	Thank you. Minister, I would like to thank you for your very good presentation. But my question relates to one very important ability and the desire to see more allies here, above all combatable units. A battle force must be able to practice continuously. How do you now see the development of our training fields, including the development of the central polygon, but most of all, I mean the development of Nursipalu? These abilities, which we could develop in our own defence forces as well as with our allies, should be guaranteed as well as possible by the exercise fields.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U159	Reasonable and pragmatic question, good question. I see this development, above all, in such a way that the presence of the allies, which I hope will, within a month, be confirmed by a specific political and formal decision, will increase in the Tapa region, where infrastructure already exists. Kill the military campus we urgently need to build more when these decisions are made, infrastructure, whether it be accommodation buildings, maintenance areas, warehouses or access routes to exercise fields. Above all, we have, I believe, an armoured maneuver. Of course, we must consider that the allies come here not to spin their thumbs, but to practice real cooperation. The tanks in the Võru area will certainly not practice every day because there is simply no territory there. We will further develop the central polygon, the Soodla exercise field and the possibilities of moving between them to give the allies the opportunity to stay busy at all times. This is the direction that, above all, we are focusing on Tapa right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U160	Thank you. I apologize, Mr Henn Põlluaas! In this item, a member of the Riigikogu is able to ask each of the rapporteurs a question. In addition, the 20-minute time allowed for the Minister to answer questions has come to an end. Thank you very much, Minister. We're moving on. I'm asking for a presentation by Kalev Stoicescu, a researcher at the International Centre for Defence Research. The mike's on. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U161	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members and guests of the Riigikogu! I will present to you, in general terms, the content of the report by the International Centre for Defence Research, which does not go into detail or figures. This report is entitled 'Strategic Balance in the Baltic Sea Region' and its authors are before you and my colleague Henrik Praks. Allow me once again to thank the Committee on National Defence for ordering the report from the ICC. This report is very timely and, in substance, devoted to the key issues of ensuring the security and protection of Estonia, all the Baltic States and also the entire Baltic Sea region in the coming years. In our report, we focused on deterrence rather than defence as one that has been dealt with in quite detail by other studies, including in the context of war games. Our report was prepared in March, which is why it does not reflect the events that have taken place in the last two and a half months. At the same time, the political and military starting points of the report, as well as the conclusions and recommendations that are removed from the analysis, remain, in the opinion of the authors, completely adequate and credible. We have based our analysis on three basic assumptions concerning our eastern neighbours. Firstly, Russia may take tactical steps in the coming period to achieve its objectives, for example, to break the unity of the European Union with regard to the extension of sanctions or to undermine NATO's solidarity with regard to increasing the presence of its allies on the eastern wing of the alliance. This is evidenced by the Kremlin's recent messages and active foreign policy with Greek, Hungarian and other allies. Unfortunately, Moscow's anti-Western strategic course will not change in the long term, with the aim of weakening NATO and the European Union and creating a position of strength, particularly with regard to security issues in Europe and the Middle East, through elbows, or brutal policies, including a disguised war, as we have seen. Secondly, Russia's policy is obviously an opportunistic one, which is why no good chance of hurting and destabilising NATO and the entire Western world will be missed, including in the Baltic Sea region, although we do not see any rational reasons for violating peace here. The hands of the Russian elite and of President Putin are bloody because they have repeatedly and indiscriminately used raw force against neighbouring countries, including Syria, and even their own people. So we have reason to believe that they will continue to use force as they see fit. Moscow's messages cannot be credible, which is why Russia's actions must be monitored rather than official rhetoric, or propaganda. Thirdly, after the 2008 anti-Georgia aggression, Russia has started to implement an ambitious plan for the modernisation of the armed forces and the development and production of armaments, which is an unprecedented defence budget, which seems to be the top priority for this country. It can be said that Russia is apparently planning to arm quite to the teeth in 2020-2025, with its armed forces in their batting fists, with powerful and modern anti-attack systems, the most capable divisions and brigades, etc., placed precisely in the western direction, including the region of the Baltic Sea, the Kaliningrad region, and the regions of Pihkva and Leningrad in Estonia and Latvia. Belarus is an ally of Moscow, and in the face of a sharp crisis, it is difficult to imagine that the Minsk authorities will not allow Russia to use its country's airspace and territory for military operations. Finally, Russia seems to have a solid and threatening plan to build up its military force in our region. I think he will carry it out in any case, no matter what NATO does or does not do. The Kremlin simply uses NATO's steps to strengthen defence on the eastern wing to justify its own military plans. For example, at the beginning of 2016, the United States announced that it intends to multiply the European Initiative for Confidence (European Recovery Initiative) budget, after which Russia announced its 'answers', including the establishment of clearly attack-like tank divisions, etc., in the Western direction. However, these were, in fact, official decisions already published last year. Now, too, about some of the NATO considerations that we had in mind. NATO's deterrence is, of course, based on nuclear forces, missile defence and conventional forces. In view of Russia's so-called "hybrid war," an "non-conventional deterrent" has also emerged, involving a large number of new but also old aspects, from the information war to energy security and cyber defence. However, our report focuses only on the ordinary forces, because it is these that give Russia the greatest advantages in the Baltic Sea region, especially given the geography and the fairly symbolic presence of the allies so far. NATO's overall superiority is obvious, especially in economic but also military terms, with the exception of nuclear weapons, for which the United States and Russia have parity. At the same time, NATO's excess in the Baltic Sea region is not reflected in a single way. Another aspect is that we can be sure that NATO does not trade its territory, i.e. Russia does not pay to rake in the Baltic Sea region with the Crimean or Donbass scenario or anything like that. Otherwise, there will inevitably be a conflict between Russia and NATO, in which Russia will sooner or later be a loser, and its losses will most likely exceed any victories at mountain height. That is why, of course, Russia is trying to avoid a large-scale conflict with NATO. On the other hand, Russia can make a false move. Given the limited presence of the allies in our region and the unwillingness to increase it (if such a scenario had been under way, there is still a sure hope that this would not be the case), Russia could have tried repeatedly in the Western military battle preparedness control exercises, in which the Baltic States are cut off from Poland, or the rest of NATO, and also blocked from the sea and airspace, and then looked at what will happen, using nuclear threats to decalculate the conflict, i.e. fait to create the Accomplished. In that case, however, NATO's deterrence would have failed and then it would no longer matter why and how it failed. Even if the allies finally freed the region and Russia retreated, we would all be losers. This is why deterrence plays a key role in ensuring the security of our region. It has its own logic, based on psychological factors, but also on sober ground, although, unfortunately, in the case of Russia, possible emotional impulses must also be taken into account. We cannot rely solely on President Putin's mercy, or his desire for peace, which does not exist. Russia is increasingly capable and threatening in military terms, but NATO is still able to intimidate it. It seems that our NATO allies have understood this and made political decisions to increase military presence in the Baltic States and Poland, as well as in the Baltic Sea. On the one hand, no one in NATO, including Estonia, intends to repeat the confrontation of the Cold War, i.e. to bring together vast troops and arms with Russia on more or less parte grounds. It is neither necessary nor conceivable in practical terms. At the same time, the increased presence of the allies in Russia shows that NATO is serious about ensuring the protection of all its members and that any attempt to attack them will not be left undecided. If the nuclear nations of the United States and Great Britain and other allies, including Germany, bring not only symbolic or flag-bearing units but also combatable units into our region, then we will no longer be able to overlook them. The risk of Russia making a false turn would therefore be reduced to a minimum, although it may never go back to zero. Russia understands perfectly that the growing presence of allies in the Baltic Sea region, even with the Baltic states and the Polish defence forces, is not an escalating factor, because all these forces combined do not represent a real and immediate threat to Russia, not even to the Kaliningrad region. On the other hand, the Kremlin is very angry that we are based on Russia's actions and not on its rhetoric, and the defence of Russia's so-called periphery will be strengthened further, especially because of the commitment and commitment of the US. The United States, our most important ally and the true guarantor of European military defence, is still Russia's political nightmare. It's a reality. So our interests and those of Russia are the opposite, but we must stand up for our interests. There are also those who are looking at the growing presence of the allies in the Baltic countries, which, in the light of the expected decisions of the Warsaw Summit, is comparable to what we suggested in our report, the US Army brigade in West Berlin during the Cold War. There's a grain of truth in it. Of course, the focus is on the penalty. With one or two pre-empted brigades and local forces, the Baltic States and Poland will not be protected in the event of a full-scale conflict, I would stress that, in the case of a full-scale conflict, the allies, in particular the United States, have sufficient reinforcements to combat the opponent. At the same time, the obstacle detection factor becomes much more effective. The Baltic States and Poland, we must take this into account, are not, however, West Berlin. In these four countries, there are about 45 million people, and they also have their own armed forces, which are increasingly capable. Their beggars, or their ability to resist, function effectively and recover, cannot be underestimated; in Estonia, it is worth considering the Defence League and military service. Let us also include the tactical groups of the allies' battalion and their other presence. Therefore, even with the most effective action, Russia cannot count on a quick victory of à la knife through melt butter. Finally, I would like to point out that we are still halfway there. The NATO summit in Warsaw in early July will not be our final station if our objective can be called that way. Even if the allies do not see the need to further increase the presence of the ground forces in the future, for example by expanding these same battalion tactical groups into brigades, there are a number of other aspects that will definitely need to be addressed, which will have to be decided and implemented in the years after Warsaw. Firstly, the Suwalk Corridor, which is Russia's ability to prevent allies from being deployed and operating in our region. Secondly, anti-aircraft and defence, because we have so far not moved beyond the peacetime Baltic air security mission. Thirdly, the allies must significantly increase their presence in the Baltic Sea, as has been said. It seems to me that, given the size and power of the Russian Baltic fleet, the Baltic Sea or its eastern part is their comfort zone, but it must not remain that way. I will add here these remarks I do not have written that we have seen Russia react very painfully to the exercise in Baltops, which extended to Hankon, farther north than ever. But this is a new reality, because all countries around the Baltic Sea are countries of the European Union and all are NATO countries, with the exception of Finland and Sweden. Russia is the only country that does not belong either to NATO or to the European Union, but this country has 7% of the entire Baltic Sea coast when we are talking about the Gulf of Finland and Kaliningrad. This is the new reality. But, as you can see, Russia, of course, does not yet accept this. I'm sure it'll take some time. While the presence in the Baltic Sea has been organised mainly in the framework of visits and exercises, as has already been mentioned in the Baltops, but not in the quite permanent way that is necessary. Lastly, the NATO missile defence system must certainly also cover the Baltic States and Poland. This is a great job to be done, but the progress that has been made so far gives courage and confidence that all these things will finally be done. I hope they can be done in time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U162	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U163	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In the final part of your presentation, perhaps even the answer to my question was. The report has been made a little earlier. There are eight planes and the situation in the Baltic Sea, in fact, the ships that are here are holding more like the North Sea. But perhaps you are expressing your opinion on what has been the movement over the period that has passed since the report was drawn up? I understand from the final part of your report that this movement has not been fast enough. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U164	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Oudekki Loone Centre Party. 5 + 3 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U165	Ladies and gentlemen, This report, which we are discussing, clearly responds to the concerns and questions of many Estonian people about national defence. I am pleased to say that when we discussed the conclusions and recommendations of this report, we did not have to vote once. We argued, sometimes very hot. This one point, which was also asked about here and which concerns NATO's presence in the Baltic Sea, we discussed for at least an hour. But we didn't vote. We discussed and reached a consensus. It is a good policy that, I think, is Estonian, European and keeps us very clearly in the European value area. The second part of Europe's value space is that we also have a lot of disagreements. In a democratic society, it is so normal and right. One of the things in which I, for example, think differently than many others in this Chamber is the same question of war with Russia. Look, I don't think for a second that anything like this could happen in the near future. I know a lot of people don't think so in this hall. I know that some of our fellow citizens outside this Chamber do not think so either, despite the fact that most of our citizens, as revealed in a recent study, consider terrorism, trafficking in human beings and ISIS to be the main security threat. But it cannot be denied that the war with Russia is a fear of many people, and in some it has even gone so far that they consider it hopeless to avoid this war. Since the events of 2008, in Georgia, after Crimea and Donbass, this fear has been strengthened for obvious reasons. Black scenarios are already being painted, according to which Russia will attack, will be in Tallinn in 24 hours and everything will be bad. To date, medical science has found quite a number of ways to treat depression and do so very successfully. But political science has not been able to resist the same and say how to cure pessimism. It seems that it is very difficult to talk about peace while in Donbass, Nagorno-Karabakh, Syria, Libya, Sahel countries, Yemen, Afghanistan, Somalia or anywhere with dice. Similarly, it is terribly difficult to be an optimist when we have the worst economic crisis since 1929. But the Centre Party has always maintained optimism because we know that if we do tax reform and choose an expansionary monetary policy, we will overcome the economic crisis. Similarly, we know that if we have skilled and courageous diplomacy, we can avoid military crises. August 23rd, 1989. Do you remember that day? About a quarter of the people of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania stood hand in hand. Two million people. Why did we do that then? Is it because of the creation of a sanitary cordon and the holding of Russians in a cage, in order to set up gun areas in the direction of St Petersburg, in order that tens of thousands of Estonian people would not have the right to elect a parliament in order to retaliate for 1940, or in order for US soldiers to be able to drink horses in Fontanka? No! We did it because we wanted to be free. We wanted to make our own decisions at home. We wanted to be free Estonians. We wanted prosperity, we wanted justice. I remember that. I also wanted prosperity and justice, even though I was relatively young at the time. I believed then, as I believe now, in the future of my country. I care about the future of Estonia and consider it the most important thing in this Parliament to ensure the well-being of all people living here and the opportunity to live in peace. So we have to put an end to this madness and the fear that the war will come to our door tomorrow. That possibility must be ruled out. Estonia must never become a barbed wire that divides east and west. We must be a flourishing bridge between East and West. Therefore, today we must act as a sensible adult nation and with confidence. I am very pleased that we in the Committee on National Defence have also taken this step towards rationality and, by consensus, agreed that we will support NATO dialogue with Russia, a dialogue based on justice and international law. Weapons in Europe must remain silent. To do this, you have to sit down and talk, listen, and be heard. Solutions must be found that can be accepted by all parties and that are beneficial to everyone. This childish zero-sum game-thinking must be abandoned in international politics. If we start to say that there is no need for dialogue and why you are talking about it at all, then we are no longer Europeans. Then we will no longer be decent Estonians, because the Estonian tradition is that we are arguing, but we will also talk and arrive at the result. Politics is not a profession, in my opinion. I'm in politics, I'm in this Parliament and I'm on this board because I feel obliged and I feel the need to make our society better and fairer. I wouldn't want to take on any such responsibility that we're going to incite war madness. I hope no one in this hall wants to take it on. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the things that separate some of us from each other, either here or outside this hall, are pacifistic optimism and militant pessimism. The future will show what remains, war or peace, optimism or pessimism. But those who are in favour of peace are on the verge of success today. You see, those people who do not want peace at heart today do not want a world that takes each other's interests into a lasting world of fair and just principles and agreements, have decided in advance that they are losers, they are down, and they have to use some strange power. We who want peace, we who, like the National Defence Committee, are prepared to argue and sit at the negotiating table, simply have to wait. By quoting the Italian poet D'Annunzio, who has said that fate is turning to us with an iron fortress, I too will end with an iron fortress. Wars and crises belong to the past, to the future of peace and prosperity. The Centre Party has certainly chosen to belong to the future, and I hope that all of you will also choose to belong to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U166	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Johannes Kert Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U167	NATO must be present at the right time, the plans must be sufficiently detailed and with real capabilities and practiced. NATO's military footprint must be sufficient to change the military estimate of a possible aggressor. Finally. While during the Cold War nuclear extinction contained certain mysteries, ignorance of which apocalypse is triggered by any limited military advance, it may make sense today, when discussing conventional departure, to open some maps and to describe the countersteps in more detail. The promise to respond to a local hybrid operation in Russia with nuclear winter and a global nuclear holocaust can be much less effective than a very clear and understandable plan to provide a painful and accurate conventional response that neutralizes the opponent's hopeful success. So, not only is the footprint important, but also plans, exercises and, above all, political consensus and solidarity between all the allies. The good news is that our fear - inspiring adversary is intimidating. The second good news is that the alliance is on the right track and we can expect the right messages from the forthcoming NATO summit with optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U168	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen... The report by the National Defence Committee 'NATO deterrence in the Baltic Sea region: state of play and perspectives' is the first and quite thorough strategic analysis of the situation and visible perspective of the Baltic Sea region at the level of the Riigikogu. The report is topical, it takes into account the NATO Summit in Warsaw at the beginning of July and makes recommendations to the members of our government who represent us there. The Reform Party considers it important to emphasise the consensus reached in the preparation of the report in the Committee on National Defence. The Reform Party has also addressed national defence as one of its priorities. In our allies' national defence committees and in discussions with our colleagues there, we also presented the positions set out in the report and tried to compare our positions with those of our colleagues. I must admit that it was a surprise to me that some in Parliament were almost identical to us. I would like to highlight in particular the opinion of my Swedish colleagues on the security situation. One of the issues addressed in the report is the allocation of 2% of GDP to defence expenditure. I would argue that this does not just mean contributing to the reconstruction of national defence here on the ground and maintaining the structure of national defence, but is a very important message for achieving and maintaining NATO's political unity. Thanks to this rather serious contribution, Estonia's reputation in NATO is good. A small country doesn't have much to bet on. The one that Estonia has contributed to is keeping to heart. It has been seen and set an example for others. In the last two decades, let's say this, the end of the first Cold War, there was some kind of defence-political confusion in the capitals of Western Europe, which will also result in a reduction in defence spending and thereby defence capabilities. Russia's behaviour, disregard of international standards and agreements, suggests that Russia and possible developments in Russia have been misjudged. Examples are Georgia, Ukraine and other regions. NATO is fundamentally changing its strategic behaviour due to lessons learned in Georgia, Ukraine, as well as Syria. There is intensive search for solutions to discourage Russia's imperialist ambitions. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U170	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U171	We are currently debating which troops and how much to place in Eastern Europe. The fact that they are placed here is no longer the subject of discussion. We've also been talking here about whether the battalion is enough or not enough, and we need some more ground units. I would argue that the question of NATO's comprehensive solution to the Baltic Sea region, one might even say, from the NATO fleet in the Baltic Sea, which would be able to neutralise Russia's aggressive action, is perhaps of key importance. At the same time, it is important that we also pay attention to other regions. The previous speakers stopped contributing to the security of southern Europe, but I would point out the Black Sea region and the possible deployment of NATO troops in Romania and Bulgaria, the contribution to the Black Sea fleet. It creates the capacity to distract Russia from our region and, if necessary, to burden Russia's resources in order to prevent the conflict. At the same time, there is a need to continue to improve primary self-defence. Let us ask ourselves whether we have done all we can, whether we have failed to do anything. Perhaps we could have done more if we had better arrangements. I hope that today's report will be followed up on important defence issues at the level of the Riigikogu, including the development of the state's primary self-defence capability. I hope that this will be part of our national defence political routine and culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U172	Thank you. Henn Põllaas, please, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U173	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the National Defence Committee for producing a very meaningful and important analysis. I mean, we here don't make a choice, war or peace. I believe there are no people among us who would like to make such a choice. We have long made these choices, and peace is our only position and choice. This choice is not made by our allies, nor by NATO. But unfortunately, they say you can't choose a neighbor. We have a neighbor who's made these choices all over history. Probably the choice of peace or war will be made in the future to the east. We know that Russia has, in all respects, moved away from the standards of conduct of a normal democratic and peaceful state, has abandoned all international conventions and treaties, and has attacked its neighbouring countries. Russia is trying to achieve hegemony in the world, the status of a superpower, and it imagines that it has a special mission. He's made a choice, and we have to be ready for it. They say if you want peace, you must prepare for war. That's God's truth, because if you're not wearing thorns, then you're just a catch for the big ones. This also applies to a small country that does not have thorns, which does not have its own defence. Since our location is what it is, we must prepare for war, whether we want it or not, but that does not mean that we want war. A good colleague asked a very important question: have we done everything we can to ensure that we are as thorny as possible, that our defence ability is as good as possible, given our resources? There really are a lot of shortcomings, a lot of misses, a lot of recklessness that can be pointed out. But at the same time, Russia's behaviour has been a wake-up call for us and, more importantly, for our allies in the European Union and NATO. Thoughts and actions have gained a new direction and momentum, which is only positive. The question is how we will be able to contribute as much as possible in the future and how much we can get our allies to contribute as much as possible to our security, which in fact means the security of the whole of Europe and NATO. How to remove these bottlenecks, overcome them, overcome the Russian missile shield over the Baltics? How Can I Cope With Problems? How can NATO troops move here quickly if there is a crisis situation? How can NATO troops be mobilised? How to speed up the decision-making process so that all this machinery starts moving, that it is oiled enough, not like today. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U174	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U175	We must also look eastwards, because Russia, whatever it is, has contributed very much to its defence forces. They have solved the problem of rapid response and rapid transport of large forces from one place to another. This is a challenge for NATO. I look very positively at the future of NATO and our allied relations in this respect, because we have set out 2% of the GDP that we have committed to. Obviously, the Warsaw Summit will be a turning point, and more and more countries will fulfil this commitment. So we don't make a choice. Our choice is peace, and it is NATO's choice. For the sake of strengthening peace, we all are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U176	Thank you. Sven Mikser, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Many wise words have already been said today, and I will not try to repeat everything. A previous speaker spoke of the desire to be a flourishing bridge. What I'm saying is that we're all here for the sun's faith, but living on the shores of the Baltic Sea, we're still gonna do the smart thing if we take an umbrella with us when we go out. I don't think those who call going out with an umbrella to fuel the rain really really understand the nature of deterrence. After all, emissions are, in fact, a concept that can prevent military conflict. This means maintaining peace by giving the potential aggressor absolutely unambiguous understanding that any attack will be followed by an immediate, inevitable and overwhelming response and that the damage to the sanctioned aggressor is greater than any expected benefit. During the Cold War, nuclear release was primarily discussed, a concept known as mutually established dislocation, or mutually assured destruction. Fortunately, today we can also talk about conventional deterrence. The aim of dumping is not to win such a large-scale military conflict as it can avoid war. It is therefore understandable that both the military footprint in the region and the plans that are being made to win the war are necessary, as are the plans that exist, are also being made and practiced, somewhat different from this footprint and the plans that help prevent the war. Figuratively speaking, one battalion in Estonia is not enough to defeat our great Eastern neighbour in military terms, certainly not, but it is a step in the right direction to change the military estimate of a potential opponent if he is to use his military force against us. An opponent, who is not entirely irrational, who takes into account both the expected benefits and the feared damage when planning his or her activities can be discarded. We know today that the greatest risk of conflict in our region is when a potential aggressor makes a tragic miscalculation, erroneously assuming that due to the indecision or dissent of the allies, the military advance may either be left unanswered or at least the benefits may be significantly greater than the inconveniences caused by the countermeasures. We firmly believe in NATO's unity today. We believe that if necessary, they will come to our aid, but our ideal scenario will certainly not be released. Our ideal scenario, for which we are building a deterrent, is to avoid war. Yes, Russia has a remarkable conventional military superiority in our region, and there is also the advantage of time and space. Russia is already present in this region, in the immediate vicinity of our borders, with considerable forces. NATO has relatively little capacity in the region. The Russian decision-making process is exceptionally centralised, i.e. that decisions taken can be immediately enforced. NATO's decision-making process is based on the creation of a consensus between sovereign states. This will inevitably take a little more time. There has already been talk about Russia's concept of A2/AD, or Anti-Access/Area Denial, and certainly also nuclear policy, Russia's concept of 'deescalation' through escalation, or the concept of a primary substrategic nuclear strike. All of this creates the prerequisites for this tragic miscalculation, the mistaken feeling that a quick advance can lead to success. In order for the deterrence to work, these advantages must be neutralized. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U178	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As Chairman of the Committee on National Defence, I am very pleased to take part in this debate that we have had here today. If my memory does not deceive me, it is the first time since regaining independence in 1991, when the National Defence Commission has brought a very important issue to this Chamber to discuss with us all. It is a pleasure that we have done so by presenting this report today. Most importantly, as demonstrated by today's debate, there is still a very clear consensus in the Chamber on very important issues of strategic importance for national defence. How could it be different? If we want unity from our allies, we stress that NATO's unity is extremely important, then, of course, the strength of our own position is also a prerequisite in this great picture of our own unity. I think today's debate also contributed to strengthening this unity. For the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the issue of national defence has been one of the key political priorities over the past 25 years. At different times and in various ways, our politicians have been involved in the creation and development of national defence. These central issues are still important in our defence debate today when we are talking about strengthening our independent defence capabilities, based on a reserve army whose very important component is military service. On the other hand, the same independent defence capacity in its development must be guaranteed with sufficient resources. After all, these issues were resolved years ago when Mart Laar was the Minister of Defence. Similarly, it is a very important component that talks about the need and deterrence of the allies' presence precisely in that direction, as Sven mentioned earlier. After all, the aim of the emissions is to create peace and stability for investors who wish to invest in Estonia. It is also very important that the steps that we are taking today, also in anticipation of the decisions of the NATO Summit, are intended, on the one hand, to safeguard the security of our country and to create long-term stability, but, on the other hand, to ensure economic development and to maintain and grow our international competitiveness. Without the deterrent steps that we are planning with our allies, this area would also be clearly under attack. Once again, I would like to thank all those who took part in the drafting of this report. I would like to thank the advisers of the National Defence Committee, Aivar Engel, Liv Turk and Ingrid Muuli, who participated in the preparation, writing and preparation of this report. I would also like to thank all my colleagues and groups for this very substantive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U180	Thank you. There's no more calls. I thank all the rapporteurs for their meaningful presentations and thank you, colleagues, for your active participation, both those who asked and those who negotiated. This item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U181	We're going to the next item. The sixth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Construction Code and the Planning Act, which was initiated by the Economic Commission. The rapporteur is Urve Palo, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U182	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed sending this draft to second reading twice: for the first time on 31 May and for the second time on 2 June. On 31 May, the Commission was invited to its meeting by the Deputy Secretary-General for Energy and Construction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and by a representative of the Technical Surveillance Authority. There was also an amendment to the draft proposal from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Government's opinion, which included a proposal that we should not postpone the deadline in the field of architectural design and that the requirement for professional certificates in this field should enter into force on 1 July. a. We discussed this proposal seriously and decided, however, that it would be reasonable to postpone the requirement for a professional certificate for a period of time, but not for a year and a half, as in the case of other professions, but for a period of six months. The reason is that, as the Association of Estonian Architects has said, this association has 392 members, but the certificate of competency required from 1 July. a, there are 126, i.e. only a third. That is why we did not think it was right to cancel the postponement and decided, however, to give six months of extra time so that those architects who do not have a certificate of competency and wish to receive it could obtain it within six months. Why did we make such an exception that in other professions we postponed this requirement for a year and a half, while in architects for six months? Because many architects still have a certificate of competency, the percentage of those who hold a certificate of competency is somewhat higher, it exists in about a third. For other professions, this percentage is lower. At the meeting on 2 June, we decided to postpone until the end of this year, 31 December 2016, the entry into force of the professional certificate requirement in the field of architectural design. This requirement shall apply to representatives of other professions on 31 December 2017. It was decided to send the draft to the plenary session by 7 June, but, as you will notice, today is 8 June. The Riigikogu Board asked that the debate on this draft be postponed to 8 June, as the agenda for 7 June was very tense. So we are talking about this bill today. It was also proposed, by consensus, that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, that the draft be sent to the third reading by 9 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U183	Thank you, dear waitress. You have at least one question. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U184	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Do you think that the certificates of competency and the certificates issued by several associations really have the objective of providing better education for those who acquire the invitation? Can't our universities give architects enough education? Secondly, is it really the subject of 2016 that in the field of architectural design, professional certificates must be issued in Estonia, if, for example, in Denmark, where there is an extremely high level of attention to architecture, this is not done? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U185	Thank you. Whether the requirement for certificates of competency and the system of invitations in Estonia at all are time-appropriate and justified in this way is not directly the subject of this draft. However, it is a matter of the construction code and we discussed this in the Commission. Many members of the Commission had reservations about whether the whole issue of certificates of competency should not be reviewed: whether an invitation should be sought at all, whether it should be applied for in this way and who should apply for it. The Committee on Economic Affairs asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs to take the lead here, together with the Ministry of Education, and to propose changes to the system. The representatives of the Ministry said that they would be ready to come to us with this topic next fall. I really hope the Ministry of the Economy is really working on this. It is true that, in this light, it might have been justified if architects, too, had shifted that deadline for a year and a half rather than six months. However, as a result of long discussions, we decided that this was a political compromise. However, since architects have done better and have more certificates of competency in proportion to the others, there will be no one-and-a-half-year postponement in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U186	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U187	Yes, indeed, there was such a debate in the Commission. I'm asking your opinion. Do you think there's any way we could try to motivate the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to come up with this statement earlier than next fall? Then architects who are otherwise good, but maybe not really in the architects' union, should not apply for such a tsunami certificate. I think it's just like a legacy from 25 years ago when we were part of another alliance. Why don't you take it and fix it? Perhaps we can come up with proposals by the end of this year. Otherwise, we have a situation where we are putting the law into effect from 1 January, but on 30 October, for example, we will come up with the initiative that these invitations will no longer be needed, because they are the legacy of the Soviet era.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U188	Thanks to the questioner! I would like it very much if the Ministry of Economic Affairs was able to carry out analyses and, in cooperation with the Government and the Ministry, proposals much earlier this autumn. Personally, I'd like that very much. We must, together, figure out how to motivate them whether we should invite the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure to a meeting of the Commission and ask him to take this matter forward more quickly, or send a letter about it. Let's discuss this together.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U189	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U190	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the Commission, we clearly understood that the reason for the postponement is that many people have not reached a certificate of competency, although the deadline was fixed. But I didn't really understand whether any circumstances had changed or whether they would change in that year and a half. Can't we be in the same situation in a year and a half that we still have not issued enough certificates of competency and we have to extend that deadline again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U191	That's a good question. On the one hand, when the principles of the system of invitations are reviewed and amended, it is hoped that perhaps it will not soon be necessary to apply for these certificates in the way that the law currently provides. But if they are not reviewed and the new law is not passed, then people will have to comply with the current law. I do not think that the Riigikogu should, however, have any substantive reason to postpone this deadline for the second time. You have to follow the law. We hope that, in the meantime, we will be able to make appropriate changes to the 21st century, but the Ministry of Education and Economic Affairs will have to cooperate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U192	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U193	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am asking the same question that was put by my colleague, Kalle Palling, but from a different angle. Do you think that the design field and the construction specialty are those where you need to confirm your qualifications later and carry out certain procedures so that people who order a project from the design office can have confidence that this project is competent, and that there will no longer be cases such as that of Maxima Shopping Centre in Latvia when people were injured? This center was designed by a total of six designers there, but the house collapsed. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U194	I am not competent to assess what the system of invitations should be and whether it should apply in Estonia at all. I don't have any professional training for that. But I think that this issue deserves to be reviewed by suitably prepared people from both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It is important to look at what is taught in universities and whether there is still a need to prove your professional skills after graduation and, if so, in which case, or maybe you should continue in the same way as before. In any case, we should take a fresh look at this issue. Of course, it is very important that the people who work are competent. How is this competence demonstrated? I don't know how to answer that, but the fact is, if the law is in force, you have to do it. That is why the answer to the first question is once again: if this issue is looked at freshly, but nothing is changed, then it will be as it is, but if something is changed, hopefully not in the spirit that people should be less competent, but rather in the spirit of less bureaucracy. Either the law will be changed or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U195	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. There is one amendment to the draft and we will review it. The amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 238. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U196	The seventh item is the second reading of the Bill 231 on Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Government of the Republic. To give a presentation, please, the Chair of the National Defence Commission, Marko Mihkelson.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U197	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 May 2016. The first reading of the draft was completed on 18 May. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 27 May at 15 p.m. for amendments. In point 9 of the text of the second reading of the bill, a linguistic amendment was made and underlined. The initiator of the draft act supports this amendment. A few words about the draft under discussion. The draft is very important to the Defence Forces, as the amendments set out therein will eliminate the significant shortfall in the capabilities of the Defence Forces. The Bill allows the Defence Forces to increase the role of human source intelligence and thus improve the performance of intelligence tasks. It can therefore be concluded that the draft gives the Defence Forces the right and the opportunity to collect and process more effectively the information needed to protect Estonia's military defence. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 19 May, 31 May and 6 June before submitting it to second reading. The National Defence Committee considered the possibility of the Defence Forces Intelligence being supervised by the National Defence Commission. The main argument was that security checks were carried out on members of the National Defence Commission. However, at the meeting of the Commission on 31 May, it was decided that this amendment would not be tabled. Mr Hanso, Minister for Defence, who attended the meeting of the Committee on National Defence on 19 May, also supported the non-imposition of the amendment as representative of the initiator of the draft. The majority of the National Defence Committee held a meeting on 31 May (3 votes in favour and 2 abstentions) that the inspection of national security and intelligence authorities should be within the competence of one of the committees, which is a special committee for the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu. At its meeting on 31 May, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose to the Constitutional Committee as a sectoral committee to consider initiating the amendment of § 19 (4) of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, so that, in addition to the members of the National Defence Committee, the security audit should also be carried out by members of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu. Letter with this proposal was sent to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on 1 June. At its meeting on 31 May, the National Defence Committee appointed a rapporteur for the draft here. At its meeting on 6 June, the Commission unanimously approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. At its meeting on 31 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft. At the same time, the Committee on National Defence unanimously decided that, when the second reading of the draft was completed, the third reading of the draft would be on 15 June. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? It is. Good waitress, please come back! Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I heard you say that now it's legal. So far, there was no law that would regulate military scouts. Does that mean that until there was a law, there was no intelligence? Reconnaissance, which is legalised on the Estonian side, but takes place outside Estonia in some x-country, is still contrary to the laws of that country. Is it even possible to bring intelligence into line with all laws? Is intelligence in any way regulated by law in other countries, and is it always and everywhere compatible with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U200	Thank you, good questioner! I did not fully understand this question, but I am trying to explain a little bit about the meaning of this draft and its amendments and the way in which such activities are monitored in a democratic country. Until now, according to the law, the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre was authorised to perform the relevant operations in the area where the Defence Forces units were located in an international operation environment or participated in international operations. Understandably, in recent years, the security environment, which we discussed very thoroughly in the debate just before, has made it necessary to develop these capabilities, particularly in the pre-warning context, which specifically concerns intelligence capacity and awareness of the dangers that the sovereignty, territorial integrity and security of our country may face. The changes to the draft will allow the intelligence centre to perform the tasks assigned to it better than hitherto. As Chairman of the National Defence Commission, I can assure you that in recent years both the National Defence Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have developed very good practice, that we will receive regular intelligence reviews from the intelligence centre and other intelligence authorities, so that we can have as precise information as possible about threats that could affect or endanger Estonia's security in one way or another. This bill also extends the role of the Riigikogu, which is very important. In your question, you referred, halfway by asking whether such activities were legalised in another country. Of course, it is appropriate for the rule of law that the activities and supervision of both security authorities and intelligence authorities are the responsibility of Parliament in a parliamentary state. The special committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu will certainly carry out its work in the future to monitor this area in a very thorough manner, as it has done so far in the case of other security and intelligence agencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U201	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U202	Good manager! Good waitress! As I understand it, our military scouts may continue to work as barbers or pizza couriers without being made aware that they are military scouts. What about now, what are they doing now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U203	Thank you. This is not the venue for this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U204	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to the draft 231 have been tabled. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U205	Let's move on to item eight. The second reading of the Bill 157 of the Maintenance Copy initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deputy Chairman of the Cultural Commission Aadu Musta!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U206	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the conservation copy is a draft law which the Commission discussed with great enthusiasm at many meetings already before the first reading and also after the first reading and the amendments received. This is the result of the very long-term work of a certain working group. For years, efforts have been made to improve the conservation copy law and, in fact, the preservation copy problem is now also harmonised with other organisational aspects of library work. The amendments received were submitted by the Commission itself and by the members of the Commission. The vast majority of them were editorial in nature and helped to make a rather good draft even better. A certain dispute arose over one of the amendments. The Library of Tallinn University of Technology, however, wished to maintain some of the principles of the old arrangement, which won the emotional support of several members of the committee. However, after analysing the text of the bill and having heard the opinion of Ülle Talihärm, the representative of the Ministry of Culture, we have come to the conclusion with great hesitation that the proposed amendment does not harmonize with the general logic of the law. This amendment did not receive enough votes in favour so that it could be voted in this Chamber. The final decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Everyone thought it was a law that greatly improves the state of our written national memory and that the second reading should be stopped. It can also be said that this is a draft, during which a number of good ideas, suggestions and ideas were gathered for future work, but we are not discussing them at the moment, these are intellectual luggage for the next job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U207	Thank you, good waitress. There are questions. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U208	Thank you. Good waitress! How will this law apply to the digital originals in the future? I mean, storage. Will digital originals be stored abroad, for example? Some countries keep their original copies in digital files, for example, on Norwegian servers, in case of a global disaster. What about our digital deposits?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U209	We have these roles that are creatively and rationally distributed. The national library is the main burden of complying with this law. The National Library and the National Archives have separate insurance funds that are not defined by this law. They are usually located on servers that are not located in the territory of our country. At the same time, there was an argument as to whether it was even fair to collect all these digital copies of books and so on. Negotiations with publishers produced a very positive result. It turns out that in many cases publishers themselves do not yet have a full copy of the book, it has been destroyed or damaged. So this thing has not only a collection, but also, if necessary, a deposit back to the owner or the charm of giving it to the owner. This was assessed as very positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U210	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U211	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I would ask you, however, to explain in more detail why this amendment instead of four copies did not harmonise with this new law, including one to the Library of Tallinn University of Technology and, if necessary, to other libraries. In the view of the bystander, the current situation is being aggravated. How can the idea of the new law be to reduce the preservation and preservation of Estonian culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U212	Thank you. Why did I do that? Very right, I didn't do it because I didn't understand it, so it's thought of what it means to keep it. I understand quite well what it means to retain a single print publication and what conditions it must be. However, this fifth copy would be divided between Tallinn University of Technology, the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, the Estonian Academy of Arts, the Estonian University of Life Sciences, the Estonian Children's Literature Centre and the Estonian Theatre and Music Museum. They were also recipients of the so-called "preservation copy." All these are libraries, with the exception of the library of the Academy of Music and Theatre, where there are no clear conditions for maintaining the archive collection, are, however, very well aware of what it means to have an archive collection. They have not so much used this storage copy as a rented copy, but as a copy by which they decide whether or not to purchase additional rental copies. The museum of theatre and music has also had an interest here, because all the invitations have gone there so far. The invitations are then included in the printed editions that are currently made up of compulsory copies. So, looking at them and knowing their contents quite well, I dare say that this is not only the concern of the Library of Tallinn University of Technology, but it is also the concern of all other libraries. Can they do it differently? Yeah, of course they can handle it differently. I guess they're gonna get that money from the budget, and they're gonna buy these prints. That is not what this is about, in my opinion. In my opinion, this is the same issue that was very nicely said by the woodmen at the timber conference today: if we are creating a new value, we are really creating it by the law of this conservation copy, we are bringing in a new approach, we are creating a new and meaningful procedure for preserving cultural heritage, then we must not make the situation worse. We should have the wisdom to take all the good from the old one and go on with it. Most of all, my proposal has been opposed to the Ministry's librarian and the National Library for reasons that are completely incomprehensible to me. I don't know how to explain it. I cannot take seriously the statement of the National Library that 35000 euros would be needed from their budget to pass on the same copy to the Library of Tallinn University of Technology, which would then distribute it among the sectoral libraries. I don't understand it. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I propose that if we were to adopt a very good and positive law otherwise, we would once again wonder if the Riigikogu would not be precisely the place where the requirement of the fifth conservation copy could be included in this law. Thank you. On behalf of the members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I will also hand over the proposal to interrupt the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U213	All right, good guys! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 157 amendments to the draft. The first amendment has been received from the lead committee and has been fully taken into account. The second amendment has been tabled by Ms Aru, the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. However, a proposal has come from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which reads as follows: The Group of the Free Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft 157. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Free Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft 157. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 9) and 58 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U214	The main complaints that the number of conservation copies would be increased or reduced were based on other grounds. First of all, you have to figure out what a storage copy is. Most libraries, who wanted them to be able to get one so-called free copy of the storage, smoothly and unintentionally explained that they needed a book that... But then it turned out they needed a book that could be used. The storage copy shall have a second meaning: the storage copy shall not be used; it shall not be a use copy. That's one. Secondly, I also reviewed the minutes of all these discussions, where the libraries themselves had discussed this issue. Indeed, there is a somewhat unaccustomed, forceful transition for my generation to a digital library. These libraries, even the library of the Technical University, received more so-called authorised jobs, where digital materials can be used (in digital form, not on paper, as I would like). One further argument which was raised against it was the actual practice. The representative of the Ministry, Ülle Talihärm, pointed out specific statistics and showed that those who require additional rights to receive a copy of the preservation provided two reasons. First, they have a storage facility. That's a big argument! But the other thing is that they've used 40% of the right to a storage copy so far. However, the purpose of the conservation copy is that our national written memory can be used in full and without exception, including in such a way that if, for example, a book is assigned to destruction by a judgment, the storage copy must be preserved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U215	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U216	Good manager! Good waitress! I still don't get it. If the number of conservation copies is reduced, how can better preservation be ensured? Something could happen in one place or another. If the places where the copies are stored are more than there are more copies, then the situation should be better. But what I'm more interested in is what you said was that there was a lot of intellectual baggage gathering for the future. What is intellectual baggage in the context of a conservation copy for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U217	Indeed, I mentioned that it gathered outside the context of the preservation copy, in other words, within the framework of the work that marked out how the catalogue of books, indexing and all other things, what is the division of labour in the meaning of the national library, etc. A large number of ideas were developed to avoid unnecessary duplication. Well, quite simply, once one of the centers has done all the indexing-cataloging work and developed the bar codes, the next library doesn't have to do it anymore. Right now, some books have six parallel records, all almost true. That was the capital for the further organization of the library work. Some of this information can be transferred to other regulations, the state does not have to prescribe it by law, because the rules change quite quickly in the library and not everyone requires a national, Riigikogu level injunction.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U218	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U219	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Aadu! How much will it cost to implement this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U220	We were talking about this in the Commission, and there is definitely a figure here. I'm not gonna say I'm gonna answer you in writing. If I sit behind you, I'm sure I'll find this place and show you the number. But I'm probably obliged to give you an overall assessment. This is because the savings achieved by implementing this law will be higher than the cost of implementing this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U221	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U222	Mr President! Good people's representatives! The old name of the conservation copy was the law of the compulsory copy. The law of the Sundomite was one for the cultural story and, in the opinion of all researchers and students, a very good and grateful law since its very first option was adopted in 1920. The idea of the conservation copy was then actually laid down for recording the Estonian cultural story. The big and general idea of the conservation copy law, a purely conceptual change, is, in fact, what Estonian libraries have been waiting for and, I dare say, memory institutions in general, precisely in this context, that we need some clear law to know how to preserve and preserve the cultural value of the cultural property that is born digitally. It has been discussed gradually since 1996, it has been designed and is now under way. The overall concept is very welcome. It is also very welcome that account has been taken of what we all know is that a print file is being created before a print publication and that it is always more cost-effective and appropriate to keep and preserve it than that we get a print publication in physical form and then libraries start digitising it in order to make it available in digital form. However, the number of copies stored in Estonia's history has never been as small as the new law now provides. Once, 24 copies were stored in the pre-war Republic of Estonia, then 18, then 12. During the Soviet era, the number of copies stored was particularly high. According to the law on the compulsory copy still in force, eight copies are retained. It is now proposed to reduce this figure by four. Four is a very nice number, but in a small cultural space such as Estonia, we need to think about whether something else will be changed because of this, which will get better, which will get worse. I was the one who proposed adding the fifth copy, so that there would not be four copies, but five. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U223	Of course! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U224	Let's move on to item nine. The second reading of the draft law on family benefits initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask Helmen Hunt, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U225	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to give an overview of how the draft law on family benefits was prepared for the second reading 217 and of the four discussions that took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. To refresh my memory, I will present a little introduction to the bill itself. The main objective of the draft is to codify the specific part of the family benefits of the Social Code under three special laws. The additional objective of the draft is to harmonise social legislation with the draft Family Benefits Act in relation to the General Part of the Social Code Act. The draft is based on the concept of the special section of families approved by the Committee on Codification in 2010, which set out the main issues to be regulated and the problems encountered in practice. The draft brings together in one law the provisions of the State Family Benefits Act, the Parental Benefits Act and the Maintenance Aid Act. Benefits related to the birth and upbringing of a child are hereinafter referred to as family benefits, as well as the outdated provisions of the current legal order. The draft also lays down new principles for the payment of maintenance aid aimed at improving the livelihood of children living with one parent if one of the parents fails to fulfil maintenance obligations. According to the Government's decision, maintenance aid per child is fixed at up to EUR 100. The introduction of new principles for the payment of child support is an agreed change in the government action programme to alleviate the poverty of single-parent children. At all, the draft amends 19 other laws. The changes are also linked to the development of the new information system of the Social Insurance Board, SKAIS2, which increases the efficiency of public service provision. It will be more convenient for people to use services in the future. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 April 2016. The first reading took place in this very hall on 4 May and the first reading was completed. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 18 May. Eight amendments were tabled by the deadline: the Group of the Estonian Centre Party submitted six proposals and the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, presented two proposals. By letter dated 18 May, the representative of the initiator of the draft act submitted five further amendments for consideration to the Commission. The Commission itself asked the Ministry of Social Affairs to formulate proposals to amend the Family Benefits Act and the Parental Benefits Act so that the problems raised by the Chancellor of Justice on 29 April 2016 can be resolved as soon as possible. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu asked for consideration to be given to including proposals in its letter (so-called transfer of parliamentary pensions to the Social Insurance Board). The Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators also sent its opinion on the draft. The Commission met with the representatives of the Chamber before the first reading of the draft. After completion of the first reading of the draft, the Committee on Social Affairs met four times to discuss the draft and prepare the second reading: 30 and 31 May and 6 and 7 June. The discussions included legal advisers of the Legal and Human Resources Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kersti Berendsen-Koržets and Jaanus Põldmaa, Head of the Social Security Department, Katre Pall, and Mare Jõeorg, Head of the same department, and Joanna Karu, Adviser to the Children's and Families' Department. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu was represented by Deputy Director Aaro Mõttus and Head of Human Resources Department Marika Lepikult. In particular, I would like to thank and congratulate the staff of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the officials of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, who helped the members of the committee to write their thoughts and suggestions into the draft, offered the wording options and provided the requested additional information. Thank you so much! Now an overview of the Commission's work between first and second reading, which I very much apologise for, ladies and gentlemen, is going to be quite long. A meeting of the Social Affairs Committee took place on 30 May. The Commission examined the proposals submitted and also heard the authors. The Deputy Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu presented to the Commission the amendment of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to transfer the appointment and payment of parliamentary pensions to the Social Insurance Board. So far, the task of calculating, determining and paying out parliamentary pensions has been the task of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. According to the amendment, the payment of parliamentary pensions would generally take place through the Social Insurance Board as of 1 January 2018. Liina Kersna asked how many recipients of parliamentary pensions there are, and what is the cost to the state of all this. Today there are 167 such beneficiaries of old-age pension and 18 people receive survivor's pension. Three people have been suspended. Jüri Jaanson's question as to how many future members of Parliament's pension are going to be added was answered that 67 old-age pensioners by 2039, but the number of survivors cannot be said to be among those receiving the survivor's pension. Monika Haukanõmme's question of which budget is currently paid for parliamentary pensions was answered by the Riigikogu Chancellery's budget. Viktor Vassilyev's question about the amount of the parliamentary pension was answered that the retirement pension of the members of the last Supreme Council, members of the VII and VIII Riigikogu is 75% of the salary of a member of the Riigikogu and 40% of the salary of a member of the Riigikogu since the IX Riigikogu. The amount of pension is recalculated once a year as of 1 April when the salary of the members of the Riigikogu changes. The proposals presented by the Centre Party were further examined. If you will allow me, I will also present them to you now, because these proposals were not voted on at this committee meeting on 30 May, but were only introduced. The proposal to add § 161 "Children's allowance and child care allowance rates' to the draft text was intended to reconnect the child care allowance rate with the parental allowance of the family of seven or more children. Such a change would be necessary in order to make it easier to review and, if necessary, increase the grants each year. With regard to Amendment 3, the authors have added an explanation that the child care rate in 2016 will be EUR 76.70 and the change will be relinked to the rate of the child care fee and in turn the amount of the allowance will be increased. The third amendment proposed by the Centre Party concerned § 38 (1), the maximum amount of parental benefit. At present, the minimum amount of parental benefit is 390 euros and the maximum rate is 2727,36 euros. The proposers explained: 'The aim of the amendment is to reduce the differences in state support for high-paid and low-paid parents in the form of parental benefit, thereby increasing universal child care pay. ' The Central Party Group also wished to amend § 50 (1), (3) and (4). The decision taken in the previous Riigikogu at the beginning of 2015 provided for the payment of maintenance aid at the minimum maintenance rate, which is half the minimum wage under the Family Act, i.e. 215 euros per month in 2016. According to the proposal, the amount of maintenance aid would have been set at the minimum maintenance level, which currently amounts to up to EUR 100. Paragraph 50 (2) of the draft law deals with the length of the enforcement procedure. The Centre Party had a proposal that it could be three months, the draft currently provides for a four-month enforcement procedure. The last amendment was to Paragraph 50 (5) concerning the period for calculating maintenance debts. The amendment shall base the reference period on the calendar month beginning on the first date of the calendar month and ending with the last date of the calendar month. This period shall begin on the 15th and end on the 14th of the following month. These were the amendments proposed by the Centre Party. The proposals presented by Monika Haukanõmme at this meeting of the Commission were § 43 "Recalculation of parental benefit in the event of a change of calendar year or subsequent application' and § 50 (5). The latter proposal concerned the maintenance period, whether it could start on the first day of the calendar month and end on the last day of the month, or whether it could be as it was in the draft, from the 15th to the 14th of the following month. These amendments were not voted on 30 May, but were introduced. All these proposals, which included either linguistic corrections or substantive changes, were voted on and all were taken into account in a consensual and complete manner by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Questions were raised about the maximum amount of parental benefit. Marika Tuus-Laul asked a question about this. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that both the rate and ceiling had changed. In principle, the lowest compensation will increase with the increase in the minimum wage and the upper limit will rise with the increase in the average wage. Liina Kersna's question about the financial impact of the amendments by Mr Haukanõmme was answered that this was about EUR 2 million. I raised one question in the Commission. This concerned the working hours of the special welfare guardians. We turned to the Ministry of Social Affairs on a joint proposal from the Commission to get the position of the Ministry on the need for an amendment by the next Commission meeting on 31 May. On May 31st, Tuesday, the draft law on family benefits continued to be prepared for a second reading. Since a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs had arrived on the subject of the special care service at issue on 30 May, the representatives of the Ministry also provided explanations. By consensus, the Commission decided to amend § 104 (3) of the Social Welfare Act and to amend the wording as follows: 'If a 24-hour special care service is provided to a person placed in a welfare institution by a court order, the 24-hour care service provider shall ensure a 24-hour presence of at least one operating supervisor for 20 persons receiving the service and, in addition to the needs of the persons, the presence of at least one operating supervisor outside the night time. " This provision of the Family Benefits Act, paragraph 78 (2), enters into force in general terms, i.e. from 1 January 2017. The Deputy Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu noted that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Social Affairs reached an agreement on the issue of transferring the payment of parliamentary pensions from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to the Social Insurance Board. The text now states that Parliament's pensions are paid from the state budget. I'm just saying this to make sure it's pointed out exactly. There were also questions that if a retired member of the Riigikogu turns out to be re-elected and is stopped paying him a pension for a member of the Riigikogu, then now that the Social Insurance Board is taking up this obligation, the person will be informed. The representative of the Ministry replied that the implementation of the new information system of the Social Insurance Board (SKAIS2) would lead to proactive information and that pensioners would be informed in addition to beneficiaries of family benefits. Voting on the proposals also took place. I have already introduced the proposals put forward by the Centre Party to you. The proposal to add § 161 of the draft text was rejected, 2 in favour and 6 against, with 2 abstentions. The proposal to amend § 18 (1) was rejected, 2 in favour and 6 against, with 2 abstentions. The proposal to amend § 38 (1) (the upper limit of parental benefit and its allocation): it was decided not to take into account, 4 in favour and 6 against. Monika Haukanõmme's proposal on the conversion of parental benefit in the event of a change in the calendar year, i.e. § 43: the decision was not taken into account, 5 in favour and 6 against. Amendment to paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of § 50, tabled by the Centre Party, concerning the payment of maintenance aid during enforcement proceedings: it was decided not to take into account, 5 in favour and 6 against. The proposal on § 50 (2) was rejected, 3 in favour and 6 against, with 2 abstentions. The Centre Party's proposal on § 50 (5) concerning the period to be taken into account: it was decided not to take into account, 4 in favour and 7 against. Monika Haukanõmme's proposal for calculating and converting the amount of maintenance aid during the enforcement proceedings: it was decided not to take into account, in favour of 4 and against 7. Paragraph 74 of the Bill on the suspension and termination of the disabled child benefit and the parental allowance of the disabled child and the allowance for the disabled person under the age of 18 was also supplemented. The Social Affairs Committee also made decisions, which were as follows: It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 8 June (consensually), that the second reading be closed (consensually), and that when the second reading is completed, the draft be sent to the third reading by 15 June and then put to the final vote. On 6 June the weekly plan was approved and the chairman of the committee proposed that the debate on the draft law on family benefits be included on the agenda of the meeting of 7 June, i.e. Tuesday. The reason why this was done was that in the meantime a position was also reached with regard to the estimated period. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that on 2 June a meeting was held with the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators and a meeting was held on which the amount of maintenance aid and the period of calculation were discussed. As a result of the negotiations, it was agreed that the reference period shall be based on a calendar month beginning on the first day of the calendar month and ending on the last day of the calendar month. Therefore, the proposal of both the Centre Party and Monika Haukanõmme was taken into account in essence, which I very much welcome, because the Commission has indeed tried to find a compromise in solving the problems. On 7 June, a meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs was held again, where the debate on the conversion of parental benefit was continued and decisions on amendments were taken. These amendments actually take part in the proposal made by Ms Haukanõmme. When the draft came from the Ministry of Social Affairs for the first reading, it had been introduced that parents who receive parental benefit during the New Year's Eve would not be converted. The Committee on Social Affairs has unanimously decided that the procedure in force before this proposal will be restored, i.e. the current procedure. Therefore, part of the proposal by Ms Haukanõmme has also been taken into account. The Commission decided by consensus to approve the draft documents at second reading. I would also like to thank the Bureau for the fact that, when the Commission asked the Bureau on 6 June to extend the deadline for submitting documents, we were met. Otherwise, we should have delivered the documents on Monday, now we handed them over on Tuesday. Believe me, the bill got much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U226	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U227	Thank you, honourable rapporteur, for a very thorough review of what took place in the committee session. You mentioned in your presentation that the issue of pensions for members of the Riigikogu was also discussed at committee meetings. Would you please be so good as to give this hall and those people who watch us on a computer screen an accurate overview of the time when the pension of a member of the Riigikogu will no longer be paid and the compositions of which they have worked and the years in which the elected members of the Riigikogu are entitled to receive that pension. Are there still members of the Riigikogu who could have this right in the form you mentioned it? Talk about it just to be clear. I have been in parliament for nine years, but I don't remember the time when a member of the Riigikogu would have paid his pension, although every year this topic comes up somewhere on a page. I would be very grateful for a thorough review.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U228	Thank you very much for this question. That's what I mentioned in my report. If I had started to read all this out loud, I would probably not have been able to reflect the whole debate in the Commission within the prescribed time. But thank you very much for the opportunity to give an overview of this board for the verbatim report, who is actually affected by the calculation of this pension. The right to receive this pension is for members of the XIIth Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia and members of the VII, VIII and IX Riigikogu. To make the explanation even more precise, I say the periods: the composition of the XII Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia, 29.03.1990.29.09.1992; the VII Riigikogu, 30.09.1992.10.03.1995; the VIII Riigikogu, 11.03.1995.13.03.1999; the IX Riigikogu, 14.03.1999 to 21.03.2003. The Commission asked how many people are receiving such a pension. The answer was that those who are paid for it today were 162 (I'll tell you in my head). But I'll give you the exact answer. The beneficiaries of the survivor's pension were... As you can see, there were so many things going on in the Commission that I am now a little stuck with the answer, but I can certainly find that answer. I don't know, Kalle Palling, when have you been a member of the Riigikogu? If you were not a member of the Riigikogu during these periods, this does not concern you. This issue of pensions certainly does not concern the current members of the Riigikogu, because they do not have any special pension, be it mentioned here. Okay. And now the numbers. As of today, 167 people are paid old-age pensions and 18 survivors' pensions, and three pensions have been suspended, as these people are currently members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U229	Thank you. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U230	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Did you also analyse whether this bill follows the principle of equal treatment? In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we dealt with the fact that the state does not want to come to the aid of self-employed fathers and compensate for their paternity leave. There are other contractual relationships in which the State does not compensate. Was there such a debate in the Commission? This topic really does seem sharp. What solutions do you think there could be? The Ministry's position was that they would be ready to come up with a new reform in two years' time to review the family benefits. But it's kind of a very long time. The argument that self-employed self-employed is, in my view, unreasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U231	Thank you. This issue did not arise in the Commission, but I admit that this is a very serious problem, and I think that the discussions on this issue are very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U232	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U233	Good manager! Good waitress! Maybe I don't understand this thing well, but I read here that the purpose of the law is to support the raising of children and the types of family benefits are family benefits, parental benefits and child support. But then suddenly I find here that the amendment of the pension law for members of the Riigikogu, the amendment of the Act on the person repressed by the occupation regimes and the amendment of the State Death Allowance Act have been welded. Are these people of solid age involved in raising their grandchildren or children? Where's the connection? I don't understand what these three things have to do with raising children.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U234	Thank you. I understand your question very well. As I pointed out at first reading and said today to refresh your memory, 19 other laws are being amended by this law. For the Stenogram, I will read out the laws that are amended by this draft law, which has been harmonised and improved by codification: the Defence Service Act, the Pensions Act, the Law on bailiffs, the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations, the Tax Administration Act, the Victim Assistance Act, the Act on persons repressed by occupation regimes, the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, the Act on the Amendment of the Law on National Family Benefits and other laws relating thereto, the State Pension Insurance Act, the State Death Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act, the Social Tax Act, the Sport Tax Act, the Income Tax Act, the Law on Enforcement Procedure, the Law on Employment Contracts, the Law on Health and Safety, and the Law on Labour Market Services and Benefits. As I said at the beginning, this is a very large draft, which has already started in 2010 in the Committee on Codification, which contains, in particular, the law on state family benefits, parental benefits and child support, which is also compatible within the meaning of this law. The topic of the pension of a member of the Riigikogu was added to the Riigikogu, as pensions are also one of the topics of this Act, and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu proposed that provisions be included in the Family Benefits Act regarding the pension previously paid to members of these Riigikogu formations by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. I think that's how it got clearer and better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U235	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U236	Honourable waitress! I would just like to thank you for this thorough explanation, which gave us information that, in 2003, perhaps more than 13 years ago, the pension of a member of the Riigikogu was stopped. At the moment, only three people are concerned, which is, given the contribution of these elderly people, really the least we can do for them after they leave this Riigikogu, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U237	I would like to make it clear that the pension ratio of the people in these formations was mentioned as a percentage. Indeed, some of the people who were here during these periods are still a member of the Riigikogu. It follows whether the pension has been suspended or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U238	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U239	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll take it from here. Normally, everything is stated in the title and the title is long. Shouldn't we change the title of this bill 217? At the moment, only the Family Benefits Act is mentioned in the title, and then it is said that the draft deals with supporting children's upbringing, nothing else. Perhaps the title should be worded to include family benefits, pension for a member of the Riigikogu, support for a repressed person, funeral allowance and other subjects? It would be more fair if it weren't limited to the law on family benefits. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U240	Thank you for your question. I don't think so. A member of the Riigikogu is also a family member and the repressed is also a family member. The Family Benefits Act concerns all these people. One person is a family too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U241	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U242	Last year, the Riigikogu, by a majority, decided that the support fund would have to pay out the minimum maintenance rate, and now the Centre Party has made the same amendment. Why did the Commission not find support for what was wanted a year ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U243	Thank you for your question. We received a very detailed overview from the Minister at first reading of the draft, which highlighted the size of the support fund and the amount of the maintenance allowance in the various countries. One hundred euros, as stated in this bill, is what the Estonian state is currently able to pay, given everything else, the support of a family rich in children and other social policy decisions that come, including the support of an elderly person living alone. This amount is meant for every child, not for the family. At that time, the bill simply stated that it had to be worked out, but it was not said that for every child, but said that half, or 50%, of the minimum wage. This was the proposal that the Government of the Republic now came up with. The Committee on Social Affairs voted on this, voted responsibly, also looking at the state budget. Perhaps the financial opportunities will improve. Let's see how the maintenance fund works and how the debtors receive money. Today, more than 14 million euros are owed to children in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U244	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U245	Thank you. My question continues with the question of my colleague, Kalle Palling. We currently have a couple of older people in the Riigikogu than the three who are entitled to a pension for a member of the Riigikogu. Is that not unfair, based on the principle of equal treatment? I am thinking of those older colleagues who are not going to receive a pension for a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U246	Thank you for your question. This list of formations that I have submitted does not mean that we need to look at the age composition of the Riigikogu at the moment. This was a list of the formations for which a special pension for a member of the Riigikogu applies, which has ceased to apply since 22 March 2003. There is no contradiction here. The reason why this topic was discussed was that the special pension of a member of the Riigikogu appointed on the basis of the previous Act was still paid by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu from its own resources. The payment of these pensions through the Social Insurance Board is undoubtedly more reasonable, and the information system SKAIS2 also affects them equally with others. So the discussion was not about whether to change the special pension system of a member of the Riigikogu, it was about where this payment should take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U247	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U248	Thank you. I'm going to supplement my question. My question was this: do you think it's fair? I fully understand your reasoning and it made sense, but I am simply asking whether it is fair, based on the principle of equal treatment, if the older members of the Riigikogu are not going to receive a pension for a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U249	I find this is my personal position; the committee did not discuss this topic , so that a member of the Riigikogu and no one else should receive a special pension, but should receive a pension that has been calculated according to the work done. Special pensions are not, in my opinion, justified. I am pleased that this decision was taken once and that special pensions were abolished.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U250	Good waitress, thank you! No more questions, see, no more questions. Now I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Dmitri Dmitriyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U251	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Helmen for a very thorough report. Unfortunately, however, I have to mention that only one of the amendments tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group has been taken into account in substance, which concerns the period to be taken as the basis for calculating the amount of maintenance aid during the enforcement procedure. This change has been proposed by both the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators and our colleague from the Free Party, Monika Haukamm. In order to achieve the result, we had to break the peaks with ministerial officials at several successive meetings of the Commission, but at the last moment we reached an agreement on this issue. Now, however, I would like to talk in essence about some amendments that were not supported by the Commission, but with which the Centre Party Group would have liked to improve both the points relating to child support and family allowances. We wanted to reconnect the amount of child benefit with the allowance for a single parent's child and child care allowance and the amount of child care allowance with the allowance for the parent of a family of seven or more children. Such a change would be necessary in order to make it easier to review and, if necessary, increase the grants each year. The faction of the Estonian Centre Party wished to reconnect the child care allowance to the rate of child benefit and in turn to increase the amount of the allowance. If we look at the current situation, we will see that the child care rate in 2016 is EUR 76.7. However, the original purpose of the child care allowance was to partially compensate for the costs of childcare or to provide a substitute income to an unemployed parent. This reward has now become so small because of the increase in the cost of living that it no longer serves its purpose. Number two, maintenance aid. At the beginning of 2015, the Riigikogu adopted a decision according to which the government had to set up a maintenance fund and implement it as from 1 January 2016. I specifically checked the verbatim. On 27 January 2015, Margus Tsahkna explained how the same national maintenance fund should work: 'On the one hand, the fund will provide the child with at least a minimum monthly maintenance allowance. On the other hand, the state takes this claim into its own hands and, by applying all means of leverage and coercion, demands that the parent evades the payment of a living allowance. ' The Central Party Group is proposing an amendment on the amount of maintenance aid so that it can comply with this decision and pay maintenance aid on the basis of the minimum maintenance allowance. As regards the amounts for 2016, this would be EUR 215, while the currently pending draft has EUR 100 instead of EUR 215. There are over 10,000 children in Estonia who do not receive monthly support from their parents who live apart from them. For these children, the help of the state is essential and to a greater extent than the bill on our table provides for it. In 2015, when the Riigikogu adopted this decision, the Riigikogu gave hope to those children, as well as their parents, who have had to raise the child alone for years, that their economic situation would improve and that they could also count on the minimum monthly subsistence allowance. It would be justified if this expectation and hope were now fulfilled. Therefore, in voting on the amendments, I would certainly ask that, in addition to the Commission's opinion, account be taken of the reasoning of the Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U252	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U253	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are finishing the second reading of the draft law on family benefits, which is part of the process of codifying the social code. We have approved the Social Welfare Act as the General Part of the Social Code Act and the First Special Part Act. The draft law on family benefits before us today is the second special law in the codification process, which brings together three existing legal regulations: family benefits, parental benefits and child support, which include three social security schemes, in the interests of simplification and harmonisation. Why am I talking about this? Codification agreed that the aim of this activity is to revise and update the existing legal order, to organise and harmonise terminology and to improve effective and very good administrative practice at the level of the law. Thus, at that time, quite a long time ago, it was also decided that there would be a 'technical reorganization' rather than a new social policy. Today, however, we are doing social policy, knowingly and openly, in those parts of the coalition agreement. We know two parts of them: family allowances and the creation of a maintenance scheme. Why am I here today at the Riigikogu Board? I am concerned about the fact that the bill wanted to make social policy in a few other places, too, in what is known as secret and hilly, probably in the hope that if we do not talk about it in public, then maybe it will work and no one will notice that we are making someone worse in the process of codification. Now you think I, as a member of the opposition, simply criticise everything. In fact, the purpose of my speech is to give praise. I will focus on two points of the draft. The first concerns the recalculation of parental benefit at the change in the calendar year, which was also pointed out by the main rapporteur, Helmen Kütt. This concerns, in particular, parents who have earned a minimum salary and whose amount of parental benefit is linked to it. This rate will be EUR 430 in 2016 and EUR 470 per month next year. The current law has created the situation that if the minimum wage rises, the parent receiving the minimum wage will also receive a new parental benefit at an increased rate. This is the only exception to the calculation of the compensation granted. Such an approach can be considered reasonable in every way because it is families that are the most vulnerable and need special treatment in the country in order to cope with life. These families need encouragement to have a child because they are already in a difficult financial situation and the birth of a child should not cause failure. The purpose of such an exception is to encourage parents to work before the child is born and to give a clear family policy message that the state values "low-paid families." However, the draft 217 wanted to eliminate this exception, which would make the situation of low-paid parents worse. We drew attention to this when we proposed to continue to recalculate both the minimum wage for beneficiaries and those who have not yet reached work, for example, students who receive parental benefit at the minimum benefit. I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Aivar Kokka, and the rapporteur responsible for the draft, Helmen Huntt, who, after voting off my proposal in the committee, returned to the subject on his own initiative. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U254	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U255	As a compromise, we have found a solution that yesterday resulted in us sticking to the current situation. According to the 2015 figures, this correct decision concerns 2693 people receiving parental benefit at the minimum wage. I consider the compromise reached to be a great victory. The iron concrete partition between the opposition and the coalition fell, and the opposition's proposal was partially supported. The second change I want to make relates to the support of a single parent child. The right to a single parent child allowance is currently granted to a child whose marital status records in the birth certificate or population register do not contain a record of the father or are based on the mother's statement. However, in the draft, children who have been granted this entry according to their mother have been deprived of support. Since the entry into force of the Family Act in 2010, such an entry can no longer be made on the basis of the mother's statement. Thus, the number of children receiving support from a single parent is decreasing every year. There is a legitimate expectation that, in those cases where there has been a legal basis for making this entry on the basis of the mother's statement, children will receive support until they reach the age of adulthood. We are talking about a grant of 19 euros and 18 cents. I would like to thank the good officials of the Social Affairs Committee for noticing this bottleneck, for whose eyes nothing goes unnoticed. Finally. With every acceptable law, we create and shape the environment in which we live. Social policy is not a technical and unambiguous term, but it is through which we formulate the objectives, actions and consequences of the state's power in the social field. Our social policy activities create prosperity, although the perceptions of whose well-being is exactly and what the path to prosperity is, can be very different. But one thing we have to agree on: without an important reason, no one must be made worse, especially not 'half-secret'. The focus of social policy is not only on the welfare state that Parliament has set its goal and for which the government is acting, but on the welfare society, what people do, feel and think on issues relating to the general well-being. Thank you for listening and thinking along.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U256	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. By 32 and against 46 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment is from the lead committee. The fifth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U257	I would like to ask for the fifth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U258	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu and 45 against. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is partly taken into account, Amendment 7 should be considered. The seventh amendment is from the lead committee and also the eighth amendment from the lead committee. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U259	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U260	Thank you. We follow the Home and Working Procedures Act, there is silence in the Chamber during the vote. I shall put to the vote the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu and 45 against. The proposal was not supported. The tenth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U261	I would like to ask for the tenth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U262	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 28 votes to 45 with 4 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 11 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the position of the commission is to take account of the substance, it is added that see Amendment 13. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is to consider the substance. Next, proposals No 13.24 are presented by the lead committee and the position is to be taken fully into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 217. The second reading is closed and the ninth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U263	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the draft 217 amendments. 24 amendments have been received. The first is from the lead committee. The second is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U264	I ask for the second amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U265	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 31 votes to 46 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U266	I would like to ask for the third amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U267	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. The second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu for today's birthday child, member of the Riigikogu and vice-chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, Uno Kaskpeiti! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U268	Thank you very much. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 April and the first reading took place on 18 May. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 27 May. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading of the draft at its meeting on 31 May, where representatives of the Ministry of Justice also participated. At its meeting on 31 May, the Commission decided to initiate an amendment to the draft. The content of the proposal is to amend the entry into force clause, § 2 of the draft and to provide that the amendment will enter into force on the day following the publication of the Act in the Official Journal of the State. At first, the deadline for the entry into force of the amendment was set at 3 July 2016. However, this deadline may not be realistic; it is reasonable to provide for the earliest possible time for the amendment to take effect. The Committee on Legal Affairs supported the proposal to amend the entry into force provision (by 7, with 1 abstention, no one opposed). It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 8 June, i.e. today, that the second reading be closed (both decisions were consensual) and that when the second reading is closed, the draft be sent to the third reading by 15 June and put to the final vote (consensually). That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U269	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We will begin the examination of the 220 amendments to the draft. One amendment has been received from the lead committee. We've been through it. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the 10th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U270	Let's move on to item 11. The second reading of the Act amending the Identity Documents Act, the Credit Institutions Act and the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U271	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading before you is the draft law amending bill No 232, the Identity Documents Act, the Credit Institutions Act and the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act. The draft, launched by the Government of the Republic on 2 May 2016, facilitates becoming an e-resident, makes e-services more user-friendly for them and offers both Estonian residents and e-residents the opportunity to open a bank account without entering the office of a financial institution in the Republic of Estonia. Changes are essential prerequisites for promoting the e-residency project and increasing the user base. The people of Estonia will also be given the opportunity to obtain financial services through modern technology. No amendments were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments. At the request of the Commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs expressed its opinion on the amendments to the Act on Identity Documents contained in the draft act, which falls within the scope of that law. The Committee on Monetary Affairs asked for this and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also answered us, so we are grateful to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On the basis of the opinion, clarification has been included in the draft, Amendment 3, point 3.1, concerning the transfer of tasks relating to the application and service of an identity document by an administrative contract. The amendment makes it clear in the law that an administrative contract cannot transfer to anyone the task of issuing identity documents because it is a function of the State. During the procedure, the Committee on Monetary Affairs received letters and proposals to complete the draft from four umbrella organisations. The Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, the Estonian Insurance Society, the Estonian Banking Association and the NGO FinanceEstonia submitted their proposals to the Monetary Commission. We thank all the representative organisations for their commitment to the substance. I will also come straight to what proposals the Commission took into account. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft twice, on 2 and 6 June, and, following a review of the opinions received, made three amendments to the draft, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior. All the amendments, be they preconceived, were taken by consensus within the Commission. The first amendment delegates the decision to issue a diplomatic passport to the Foreign Minister in certain cases. While decision-making is currently taking place at the level of the Government of the Republic, it is absolutely practical to bring decision-making to the level of the Minister. This proposal was proposed to the Commission by the initiator, namely the proposal came from the Ministry of the Interior. The second amendment, which itself consists of five points, was due to the need to specify the subject matter and scope of the regulation of the law's powers. This is, rather, a technical and regulatory change, which, among other things, provides a minimum standard of procedures to be followed when identifying a person and taking due diligence measures are carried out solely by means of information technology and the person does not have to go to the office of a financial institution. From the letters and suggestions sent to us by the umbrella organisations, the greatest attention was given to the question of whether if a person wants to open an account in a bank then he is an e-resident or an Estonian citizen, the procedure must in any case include an online interview. If we allow e-residents by this law, as well as Estonian citizens, to open a bank account in Internet access via either Skype or any other program by which a person contacts a credit institution, is that sufficient to enable the credit institution to identify that person and also to identify whether he or she has good intentions when opening an account? I can highlight the four principles that we followed in the Commission when formulating the law. First of all, in both cases, it is an online interview or a machine-type detection system, it is a big step forward with modern means of opening a bank account. Secondly, the new solution must be equivalent to the identification of the identity currently required in face-to-face and the taking of due diligence measures. Banks are known to have a requirement or principle to know their client. The bank must be convinced that the person who opens the bank account does so in the best faith and really wants to do so. This is a very important principle for the credibility of banks, which banks will have to follow in the future. Thirdly, the additional risks of money laundering and terrorist financing must be mitigated. Fourthly, there must be no deterioration in the credibility of any financial institution here, nor of the financial market as a whole, nor in the level of risk. As a result, the Commission consensually considered it appropriate to provide for the possibility of opening an account by means of information technology as one of the stages of conducting an interview in real time as a mandatory procedural rule. If an e-resident opens a bank account, then, yes, the identification may initially be a form survey or machine recognition, but in one procedure this real-time interview should still be done. This can also be combined with other modern personal identification methods, which will be clarified in the future by the Finance Minister's regulation. This power of attorney has also been introduced into the text of the law. In order to ensure the rapid deployment of modern technologies and the assessment of the risks described above, the Commission imposed on the Government, namely the Ministry of Finance, an obligation to carry out an ex-post analysis of the findings. By 31 December 2017, the Ministry of Finance will have to provide the Riigikogu Finance Committee with an assessment of how these procedures have started to operate, whether there are any misuses or whether there is a need for clarification. I believe that this requirement of analysis is important in the law in order to make sure that we do not change the credibility of Estonian banking in any way. Thirdly, the draft 11 clarifies the wording and the technical nature. For each amendment, a more detailed explanation is available in the table of the amendments. The consensual proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is to conclude the second reading of the draft. When the second reading is completed today, it is planned that the third reading will take place next week on Wednesday. Thank you for your attention. Can I make a call?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U272	Yeah, sure, let's call it up, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U273	I would like to ask for this draft to be supported next week at third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U274	Don't leave yet! You may have questions. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. The call was clear and understandable. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. Three amendments to draft 232 have been received, all from the lead committee: the first, the second and the third amendments. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is that the second reading of draft 232 must be completed. The second reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U275	Let's move on to item 12. The second reading of draft Act 165 on atmospheric protection initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation by Mati Raidma, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U276	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law on atmospheric air protection on 11 January 2016. Draft 165 has been drawn up in the framework of the codification of environmental law. Atmospheric air protection standards will be reorganized and restructured at times and permit handling and reporting will be harmonised. The implementation and control of related local and international requirements will be simplified compared to the previous ones. The draft law has taken into account existing practice, as well as the need to bring it into line with a number of directives. If the bill enters into force as a law, it replaces the current law on ambient air protection. The first reading of the draft act took place on 27 January and the deadline for the submission of amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 10 February. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Committee on the Environment finalised 53 amendments to the draft. The draft has been dealt with three times between the first reading and the second reading: on 15 February and 17 and 30 May at the meetings of the Commission. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment have participated in all these meetings. Representatives of the interest groups who explained their views also attended the meeting of the Commission on 15 February. At the meeting of the Commission on 30 May, the discussions started at its meeting on 17 May, during which the members of the Commission were briefed on possible proposals for amending the draft. In addition, a letter from the Estonian Water Association was presented at the meeting of the Commission on 30 May. The Union considers that no satisfactory solution has been found in the draft. The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment explained that there was a solution. The Ministry's proposal is to include in the implementing provisions that the assessment of the presence of fragrance under the regulation to be established pursuant to § 68 of the draft is not carried out in the back of the sewer building. As already mentioned, a total of 53 amendments had been submitted by the Commission. The draft was probably a little rough when he arrived, but in a busy atmosphere, these changes were made with the initiators of the draft, as the aim was to clarify the law. In most of these changes are of a technical nature and are made with the aim of clarifying the law. Their aim is to improve the structuring of the draft and the definition of terms, to organise references, to ensure that the content is consistent with the title, etc. Now I'm talking about procedural decisions. The Commission proposed to send a draft for second reading 165 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 8 June and to propose to stop the second reading. When the second reading is closed, we have a proposal to send the draft for the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 15 June and then put the draft to the final vote. All of this took place in a deep consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U277	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Waitress, thank you! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We will begin the examination of the draft 165 amendments. I'm asking for your help here so I can be operational. 53 amendments have been received, all from the commission: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52 and 53. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. Second reading of Draft 165 has been completed and the 12th item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U278	Let's move on to item 13. The second reading of § 17 of the Water Act, which was initiated by the Environmental Commission, begins. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Environment Committee Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U279	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act on Supplementation to § 17 of the Water Act was initiated by the Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu s. 21 April 2016 following the decision of the Riigikogu of 21 January 2016 to support the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. According to § 152 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Chairman of the Riigikogu instructed the Environment Committee to initiate the relevant draft law. The first reading of the draft act took place on 18 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 a.m. on 20 May. No amendments to the draft were tabled. Between the first and second reading, the draft was discussed at another meeting of the Commission, where representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Estonian Veskivaramu, Jägala Energy OÜ, the Estonian Water Association and the Estonian University of Life Sciences participated and expressed their views. Following the discussion at the meeting, the members of the Commission agreed that the purpose of the draft was to give the Environment Agency discretion and that the Commission could not adopt a position with a more overriding interest. The Commission's aim is to establish a fair, transparent and understandable basis for the draft, so that the Environmental Board has the right to consider different constitutional values. In addition, the Commission reiterates that the draft allows for a relaxation of the obligation to establish access to fish for reasons other than heritage protection reasons. In the practice of applying § 17 (4) of the Water Act, interests have so far emerged against the preservation of cultural heritage as well as business activities. Socio-economic interests, the need to protect biodiversity, as well as other unsubstantiated interests arising from ownership and business are not excluded. On 30 May 2016, the following procedural decisions were taken by consensus: to propose that the draft 226 be placed on the Riigikogu agenda for the second reading today (consensually), to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, to propose that the draft be sent to the Riigikogu plenary for the third reading by 15 June 2016 and put to the final vote. All of this, I repeat, was decided by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U280	Good waitress, thank you! Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft were received. The position of the commission is that the second reading of draft 226 must be completed. The second reading is closed and the 13th item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U281	Let's move on to item 14. The first reading of the eIdentification and Trust Services Act 237 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the Riigikogu, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The government has submitted a draft law on e-identification and trust services for e-transactions for processing. The aim of the draft is to establish a national regulation for the implementation of the European eIDAS Regulation, which is directly applicable. The aim of this regulation is to increase the confidence of European citizens in electronic transactions. The creation of a common basis will make electronic communication secure for citizens, businesses and public authorities in the European Union and will increase the efficiency of public and private online services, e-business and e-commerce in the European Union. The infrastructure with which we in Estonia are used to delivering, eID and digital signature will hopefully become normal across Europe in the future. The eIDAS Regulation contributes to the promotion of the Digital Single Market and facilitates the use of online cross-border services. The Regulation provides that, from 1 July 2016, public sector bodies in the Member States of the European Union will also recognise digital signatures across borders, considering such signatures to be equivalent to national digital signatures. From 2018 it must be possible to use Estonian ID-cards for public e-services in other EU Member States and vice versa. The consistent use of digital signatures and seals and their consistency with the changed pan-European regulation is important for Estonia. In order to implement the trust service, the draft establishes supervisory arrangements. The tasks of the supervisory authority shall be carried out by the Technical Supervisory Authority (TJA). These include procedures for the registration of service providers' trusted lists. The list of service providers is maintained by TJA. There are also national requirements for service providers, including a minimum level of compulsory insurance. In Estonia, in order to ensure compensation for damage, the trust service provider must enter into an appropriate liability insurance contract with an annual amount of insurance of at least EUR 1 million for each individual case and at least EUR 1 million for different cases. As regards the procedures for the suspension and revocation of certificates of trust services and the state fees, the State fee for the examination of the application for the first authorisation of the trust service provider shall be EUR 1030, EUR 770 for the examination of the application for a repeated authorisation. The draft also ensures legal consistency between digital signatures and digital seals issued under the Digital Signature Act and digital signatures and digital seals issued under the eIDAS Regulation that is directly applicable. The implementation of the eIDAS Regulation does not lead to major changes in the use of electronic identity and trust services within Estonia. Documents issued under the Identity Documents Act remain equally valid in our e-services ecosystem. There is a need for pan-European mutual recognition to create technical opportunities developed by the European Commission through development projects supported by financial instruments. The legal framework for trust services set out in the eIDAS Regulation is similar to that applied in Estonia. Even before the eIDAS Regulation, Estonian law had regulated a digital stamp, which is a new service in the European context. The adoption of the law does not entail significant costs, but ensures an extremely important legal clarity in the transition to new regulation. Businesses and ministries and agencies in the field were involved in the drafting of the draft. The eIDAS Regulation is directly applicable and the European regulation will enter into force in part as early as 1 July. The draft law regulates only those aspects where a Member State has the right of discretion. However, it is important that the law enters into force as soon as possible, as we want to be one of the fastest implementing bodies in Estonia in this area as well. I would like to support the decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs and conclude the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U283	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U284	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The draft law does not have an impact analysis and therefore the risks that may arise when this law is implemented have not been considered. Can you explain that a little bit? It has been said that the European Commission has carried out an impact analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U285	Thank you. As can be seen from page 20 of the explanatory memorandum, point 6 'The effects of the Law' is indeed written, as you said, that the draft has not been accompanied by an impact assessment analysis, because it is a law implementing European Union legislation. The evaluation has been carried out by the European Commission and it contains a reference to where this impact assessment is available online. At the bottom of the page, this link exists. Then we have described the effects that we, say, could briefly describe in part.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U286	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, Member of the Economic Commission for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U287	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The first reading of the draft law 237 on e-identification and trust services for e-transactions took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs on Monday, 30 May. Laura Kask, Adviser to the State Information Systems Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Mait Heidelberg, Adviser to the Ministry, were invited to attend. Mikhail Korb, Erki Savisaar, Kalle Palling, Ken-Marti Vaher and Maris Lauri attended the meeting. Jaanus Marrandi and Urve Palo were absent. The advisers of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications invited the Commission to the meeting provided an overview of the objectives and content of the draft law. The aim of the draft is to establish national regulation in relation to the European eIDAS Regulation directly applicable. The Regulation will enter into force on 1 July 2016 and the draft will establish a legal framework for its implementation. The Regulation aims to build trust in electronic transactions in the internal market and to create a general legal framework for mutual recognition of digital signatures across Europe from 1 June 2016. From September 2018, the Estonian ID card should be able to use e-services from other European Union countries and vice versa. Regulation is mandatory for the public sector, and the private sector can come with it on a voluntary basis. The reason why a new law has been created alongside the Digital Signature Act is that the eIDAS Regulation creates a broader base, more trust services such as electronic signature and electronic stamp. Also, the current Digital Signature Act does not regulate cross-border authentication. According to the Ministry's decision, the Digital Signature Act will expire after the adoption of Bill 237 as a law. The members of the Commission asked questions and received exhaustive answers. It was generally acknowledged that this is a very good bill, which makes the everyday practice used in Estonia European in e-Identification and digital signing. It also proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today (this decision was consensual), that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 12 noon on 22 June (this decision was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U288	There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Representatives of the political groups, please! It is possible to participate in the negotiations. There's no call. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 237 amendments at 12 noon on 22 June. The first reading is closed and the 14th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U289	The first reading of the draft law amending the Civil Service Act (president of the Council of the European Union) initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U290	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This draft is due to an ambitious task that we will soon have to fulfil. This is the presidency of the Estonian Council of the European Union. We are doing this Presidency well, and it has been taken as a starting point. Our public service is certainly the main burden here. The starting point is that we do not have the goal of employing a large number of new officials for the Presidency, but the main burden must lie with today's officials, whose workload is therefore clearly increasing. It is estimated that 350 officials will be those who will be recruited during the Presidency. In total, the Presidency should include some 1300 officials, 300 people with support functions and 1000 people with substantive functions. Experience in other countries says that it is reasonable that the Presidency should not take as a starting point that a state apparatus should simply be expanded, but that it is reasonable that the work of a state apparatus should be as flexible as possible. We have to take into account that officials have to work more at this time, and we have to employ officials on a fixed-term basis as flexibly as possible. This moment of flexibility must be borne in mind. The Civil Service Act is structured on the basis of very sound and even rigid principles in order to be as transparent as possible and to establish clear rules. In order to achieve flexibility during the Presidency without calling into question the general principles of the public service, the Government of the Republic has proposed to the Parliament perhaps an unconventional solution in Estonian legislation, i.e. a self-detonating or self-breaking law. This means that when the Presidency is over at the end of 2018, this law will no longer have legal force. Those shears, which the Government of the Republic humbly asks Parliament to discuss, treat and approve them with goodwill, and, if necessary, make them harsh and fair, are the following: Firstly, we propose that the general limitation on the working time of the public service should not apply to those workers who are involved in the Presidency. The assumption is that their workload will inevitably be higher during this short cycle. The condition is, of course, that it must not harm the health of an official or impair safety at work. You have to keep that in mind. In order to balance this additional burden, which is clearly incurred by officials, it is foreseen that these officials are entitled to variable remuneration. At present, the variable salary limit is 20% of the basic salary; no more should be paid. In most institutions, variable wages are also paid without exceeding this limit. Since the workload of some people during the Presidency may indeed double, not figuratively, but literally, it is foreseen that the variable salary limit will not apply to those officials who are attached to the Presidency. The head of the administration may pay them more for this work. The money, which will be used for possible additional staff costs, is foreseen in the country's budget strategy. Secondly, if the workload has increased significantly due to the tasks of the Presidency, the head of the administration will have the right to grant these officials additional leave later. Latvia chose the way in which it divided the officials involved in the Presidency into three groups. Those who were very closely involved in this work and did a very good job received a number of days that had been defined by law. Others who did less of this work were assigned a second degree as well as a specific number of days. The government discussed it, but we left it open in mechanical stages, because it definitely depends on a lot of things and varies. It is reasonable that the directors of an authority retain flexibility, but a committee coordinating a general guide on national authorities is working out. Thirdly, as far as recruitment is concerned, a "targeted appointment" is also possible for officials recruited on a fixed-term basis, either solely for the tasks of the Presidency or specifically for any additional tasks. So, as a general rule, it is not necessary to organise a competition for the recruitment of officials associated with the Presidency. Experience in other countries shows that flexibility must be created in this situation. As I said, the costs of a possible variable salary are foreseen in the country's budget strategy. These new opportunities, i.e. compensating for the expected higher workload with variable wages and the possibility of granting additional leave, plus no competitive recruitment, are presented in such a way that the institutions themselves determine which employees are exactly involved in the Presidency. Predictably, as I said, the number of these persons is at most 1300. In this respect, the authorities shall also make certain entries in the national staff register. It's all clearly fixed in advance, it can't become a floating phenomenon. That was my review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U291	Minister, thank you. There are some questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U292	Thank you. Minister, you said that more could be paid to officials. 20%, of course, is exactly 20%. What do you mean, Minister of Justice, you can pay more?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U293	In some countries in the past, the secretary of state also told the government that they began to write down additional hours of work for people mechanically. In Denmark, it seems that there was an example of a particular person whose working hours were substantially tripled compared to his previous nominal working hours. This'more' means that this term is furnished by the head of the institution. The premium could be 25%, but it could be 50%. If a person has been given double assignments for the Presidency, not figuratively, but literally, I imagine that double compensation will also be the case. Surely it would be more reasonable if we did not simply take on a large number of people in public service, but, above all, tried to deal with officials who are already in office. The assumption is that the volume of work will increase exponentially. According to the general principles of labour law, as well as reasonable and necessary compensation is needed for people. This cannot be an indeterminate amount; this is where, of course, the ceiling comes in, for example, in a common sense, a man cannot pay 100,000 per cent of the basic salary. Like I said, these calculations are done. While we are talking about the level of human resources costs associated with the Presidency, both because of the recruitment of new people and the payment of additional money to existing officials, the country's budgetary strategy envisages additional wage costs of EUR 12.7 million in 2017 and EUR 10.5 million in 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U294	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U295	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, good minister! It's very true what you're saying. However, in the table of comments, I read that many commentators have pointed out that officials who may not be directly involved in the Presidency may and will probably increase the workload. So how do you get 'em? Is it also intended to compensate for their extra work, or are they not affected at all? We need 350 new officials, probably some of the current officials are applying for temporary posts, but the burden on others will increase. What about them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U296	Thank you. The circle of persons to whom the flexibility criteria apply shall be such that during this period the main focus of their activities shall be on the Presidency. Above all, this activity will, of course, focus on this half-year, but it is clear that the preparatory work and the taking-over of things from the previous President-in-Office will start quietly from this autumn, and the summing-up, i.e. handing things over to the next President-in-Office, will continue to take place in the second half of 2018. Speaking about the general government at large, people who are not centrally involved in this subject, as I said, are expected to have a total of 1300 people, who are also good and who have any additional tasks in smaller volumes, then of course the heads of institutions have a general possibility of rewarding, which is due to the logic of the law in force: they can receive a bonus and also a variable salary of up to 20%. Clearly, the line has to be drawn. We do not want to question all the principles of public service that have been established during the Presidency. The general public service is functioning. We create time-limited flexibility, and the whole thing is falling apart from the end of 2018, and life goes back to normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U297	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U298	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As a desirable time of entry into force, you are indicated on 1 July 2016. You yourself have been talking here about good lawmaking, that you need to think and have a discussion, but now you seem to be in a hurry. Why is this July 1st, 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U299	What to deny sin here was not a party political discussion, but a very fruitful debate between the authorities lasted for several months. The first option was to make these provisions permanent or not. My clear point was that we do not make them permanent, we do not distance ourselves from the general philosophy of the public service competition and the pay limits. But this discussion really took its time. The second problem was how to accurately decorate all of this and how to do it. I recognise that the original text of the law included, for example, the specific limits of additional holidays. There was also a discussion in the government, and in the end it remained so that it would remain a good practice. As I pointed out when this debate was in Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it was my wish that it would be appropriate to deal with this draft without stretching. But I also stressed that it would be inappropriate to call for this to be done quickly if Parliament wanted to take its time for consideration. At the current rate, acceptance will obviously remain in the autumn. I hope this bill will be processed in the autumn. There is no point in enforcing this backwards. It is then necessary to set either a general date of entry into force or a specific date when Parliament is expected to discuss it in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U300	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U301	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm just asking for self-esteem. It is mentioned here that one way to employ staff more flexibly during the Presidency is to appoint officials for service without a call for proposals. Can you explain that a little bit? Can anyone come from the labour market if they have some competence and become that official, or is that only when they are recruited from existing officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U302	The focus of uncontested recruitment is that a specific fixed-term post, which will be attached to the Presidency, can be taken without a competition. These needs are expected to arise quickly. No matter how carefully we make this plan this year, there is still quite a moment of dynamics in the European Union. He's the best candidate, then an academic background, a lawyer or an official. There are no additional restrictions on employers looking for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U303	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U304	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I have two specific questions. We are talking about officials who, in addition to their existing work, have to do additional work. From your first response to Krista Aru, I realized that there is still no separate fund to pay them the so-called prize, but the money is within the existing budget of the Ministry. Is that right? Secondly, are they also given the opportunity to receive additional days of leave or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U305	Thank you. The point of this law is that for this group of persons who are centrally attached to the Presidency, whose main load is indeed the Presidency, we assume that there is nothing conditional or perhaps after going, that their workload will literally double or 50%. It is reasonable to compensate for this because these persons are required by law to comply with additional obligations. How can the work of those who contribute, as the good questioner said, be compensated for less because they are not central to the task? One predictable remuneration fund is foreseen, which is a central government fund. I am not exactly saying whether a bonus fund is foreseen in the cost accounting that the Committee of Presidency officials has done for the people you have in mind. I am happy to try to clarify the structure with which the financial forecast has been drawn up in the course of further proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U306	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U307	Will the Ministry of Justice's workload increase significantly?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U308	I think that the workload of all civil servants, including officials with a political mandate, will, of course, increase, including those of Members of Parliament. It is not the workload that depends on the level of ambition. The starting point for Estonia is that we want to take the last one from the Presidency, in a positive way, and therefore the workload at which it can get away must increase. But it is clear that neither the Estonian agenda comes from the 'emptiness', but it is still the current policy of the European Union, the management and coordination of which we take on the various areas of legislative work. From this point of view, it does not make sense to say that this burden will not increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U309	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U310	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I will also try to answer the question of holiday that was not answered before. I also have an additional question. I get the impression from your answers that you assume a lot. Where's the fortress? Who has a fortress? Who's gonna guarantee it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U311	My assumptions are based on certainty and my confidence is based on the relevant objective evidence that I have demonstrated to Parliament. This concerns the fact that this law speaks about the circle of individual persons and makes the existing law more flexible. Other persons with a lower workload are subject to the current law in full.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U312	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Mart Nuti, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U313	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law at its regular meeting of 30 May. In addition to the members of the Commission, Mr Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Monika Tappo, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, had been invited to the debate. The Minister of Justice gave a comprehensive overview of the reasons for submitting the draft and explained, as he did now, to the members of the Riigikogu its details. Following the Minister's speeches, the members of the Commission asked questions as well as their comments. I'll bring out the basics. Mr Laanet, Chairman of the Commission, said that a certain number of people would be recruited for a certain period of time, and asked whether it would not be easier to do so by a contract of command and whether the law would apply for two years in substance. The Minister explained that the law will apply from the moment it is adopted, will enter into force in general and will be in force until the end of 2018 when the Estonian Presidency ends. The provisions on working time restrictions will apply from summer 2017. If necessary, people will also be employed under a contract of employment. The general logic is, however, that since these persons exercise public authority in accordance with the logic of the Civil Service Act during the Presidency, it is also reasonable to apply the restrictions laid down for them in the public service. That would be too much of a distinction if we said that a certain number of officials employed for a limited period of time are not subject to the Civil Service Act, even though these persons are de facto engaged in public service. Member of the Commission Mikhail Stalnukhin asked the Minister to explain the period in question when he asked for the draft to be dealt with as soon as possible. The Minister presented his position to the Commission, but the chairman of the committee, Kalle Laanet, explained the Commission's possibilities for speeding up the procedure. He explained that the first reading of the draft could take place in plenary at the earliest next week, i.e. this working week, as the Commission had a meeting last week, and that the second reading of the draft could then take place in the Commission the next week. Therefore, it is not possible to enforce this law at this session, in accordance with Parliament's rules and practices. Hence also the answer to 1 July s. There is no way this law can enter into force, even though it would have been the government's wish. Member of the Commission Andre Sepp noted that the draft explanatory memorandum contained staff costs of EUR 1 in detail. He asked for an explanation of the basis for their calculation and for a comparison of, for example, the annual salary fund of the Ministry of Justice. The Minister replied that 300 additional people would be employed in the public sector on a fixed-term basis, on the basis of which labour costs were calculated. These figures are presented with a certain degree of looseness and conditionality, but set out the order of magnitude. According to the Minister, this represents less than 1% of the general government wage fund. Commission member Peeter Ernits said that the table of comments in the annex to the draft explanatory memorandum states that the Civil Service Act makes special distinctions for officials taking part in the Presidency of the European Union, but there are no criteria for deciding which officials are involved in the Presidency activities and to what extent the official should contribute to the application of the differences to him. The Minister replied in this respect that the central authorities must decide on this circle of persons. The management accounts programme shall indicate the officials and staff involved in the Presidency's activities, together with specific references as to whether they will take part as the leader of the working group or as an expert. According to comparative practice, the number of people who face the main burden of carrying out Presidency-related tasks is around 1300. Following the debate, the chairman of the committee, Kalle Laanet, proposed that the draft be sent to first reading by 8 June, so that today, the first reading should be closed, that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 22 June at 13 p.m., and that Mart Nutt be appointed rapporteur. All members of the Commission who were present at the Commission meeting at that time voted unanimously in favour of these proposals. For the sake of the stenogram, I will also read them out, because we have now gone to this practice that the results of the vote will be personalised. Kalle Laane, Mart Nutt, Anneli Ott, Andres Anvelt, Jaak Madison, Siim Kiisler, Jüri Adams, Martin Kukk and Andre Sepp voted in favour. The other members of the Commission were not present at the meeting. There were no respondents, no abstentions. The following decisions were therefore taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 22 June at 13 p.m., and to appoint Mart Nutt as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U314	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? It is. However, unfortunately, only two questions can be asked during this item's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U315	I'm really sad about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U316	I would give the floor, but unfortunately, the law of the house and the rules of procedure does not allow it. Any other thoughts? Mart Nutt, honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you! There are no more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U317	That's too bad. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-08_U318	Now, representatives of the political groups, please, you can participate in the negotiations if you have such a desire. There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 240 should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 240 amendments. 1 p.m. on June 22, 2005 The first reading is closed and the 15th item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 7.15 p.m.
