ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! The excitement is understandable. Nevertheless, we will begin the sitting of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U2	Due to the suspension of the mandate of Urve Palo, a member of the Riigikogu, due to his appointment as a member of the Government of the Republic, Liisa Oviir becomes a member of the Riigikogu today. Due to the resignation of Vladimir Arhipov, Marko Šorin is now a member of the Riigikogu. In order for us to be able to work, we must first listen to their oath of office. Please, Liisa Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U4	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U5	Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U6	All right, now you can hand over the drafts and inquiries. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U7	Good afternoon, everyone. On behalf of the party of the Reform Party, I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, the content of which is that the special committee on the supervision of security authorities must be appointed as a new member in Arto Aas instead of Peep Aru. The second draft decision concerns the Special Committee on State Budget Control and is replaced by Jürgen Ligi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U8	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of eight members of the Free Party Group, I have the honour to present an inquiry to the Minister of Health and Labour, Ossinovski, regarding the postponement of treatment due to the lack of money from the Health Insurance Fund. At the end of the summer, as you all remember, we had a very sharp focus on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, as it turned out that 33 million minus had arisen in the first half of the year. However, it has now become clear how the budget is being balanced. Because of the money shortage, hospitals are forced to postpone patients' treatment, even to the new year. As a result, the burden of emergency medical care increases and the risk of patients' health deterioration increases sharply. All major clinics have reported that queues extend and reach hundreds of people, if not thousands of people. The Estonian Association of Cardiologists pointed out very strongly a few days ago that the Estonian Health Insurance Fund cut the medical allowance for heart patients by a total of three million euros in 2016. We are therefore experiencing a situation where there is no longer much solidarity in healthcare, because the proportion of free treatment is decreasing and the proportion of paid care is increasing at a very rapid rate. This means that those who have the money will receive more or less immediately a pay-per-view, who do not have, wait months and suffer. In any case, the situation is very worrying. We will put six questions on this subject to the Minister for Health and Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U10	I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry, and we will deal with them in accordance with the rules laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act. I have a message for you too. Indeed, today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in the Chamber of the Group on Support for the Digitalisation of Enterprises, convened by Anne Sulling. Now, please, let's do the presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U11	91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-24_U12	Ladies and gentlemen, We will go to today's agenda, in which we have an item on the agenda, the third reading of the draft law amending the Gambling Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 260. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 260, and we are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Gambling Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 260. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there was no one against, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 10.09 a.m.
