ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, good day and a beautiful working week for you! First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give Minister of Culture Indrek Saar an inquiry into the budget of the Russian Theatre. Through our colleague, Viktoria Ladynskaya, we learned last week that the Russian Theatre was alive for years because of the Russian high government official who donated large sums of money each year. The Russian Theatre has for many years been supported by the oligarch and the current Deputy Mayor of Moscow, Maksim Liksutov. This support was also expected last year and therefore the amount was included in the Russian Theatre's budget before the money actually existed. Today, the theatre's budget is less than EUR 100000. In order to correct the errors, the theatre is likely forced to lay off the actors as well. Since the Russian Theatre is the only full professional Russian-speaking theatre in Estonia, it will be very difficult for actors who receive the notice of dismissal, if not impossible, to find work in their field of study in Estonia. In essence, due to accounting error and miscalculation, the only success of our Russian theatre and part of the work of the actors are at stake. In this regard, we have quite a number of questions. How many years in a row were the donations made to the Russian Theatre's budget taken into account, and how was it formalised? Was the Ministry of Culture aware of such behaviour? How were these donations in the budget formalized? And how does a former member of the Council and the current Minister of Culture ethically assess such a course of action and the acceptance of such large donations into the budget of the state foundation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U3	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U4	Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! The long-term procedure of the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school has left...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U5	Excuse me, Mailis Reps, just a minute! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U6	... from the previous Riigikogu to pick up some of the topics on which we consistently sought solutions. And one of these topics is the support services of the Riigikogu. In this respect, I propose that we discuss this in the Committee on Culture and, on behalf of the Central Party Group, I also propose a draft law amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school. Indeed, a short time ago, we agreed that support services could be financed, for example, by the Teachers' Pay Fund, if resources were left over. Three years ago, the Minister for Education and Research decided that such funding for the provision of support services from the payroll was not in line with the objective of teachers' pay increase. Thus, it has been banned from providing support services no longer eligible for funding from the Teachers' Pay Fund. The efforts to bring this issue back to the table have not been successful. For this reason, we now have an alternative offer to discuss that the labour costs of support specialists can be supported separately. The amount, to what extent, can, of course, be decided in the course of the Riigikogu budget procedure as well as by the Minister of Education and Research. In this respect, I would remind you that we have 76% of 23,500 children with special educational needs in ordinary schools and they definitely need support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U7	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U8	Mr. Chairman! I managed to get signatures from eight members of the Free Party. This is an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, and this is about Estonia's foreign policy. In our opinion, foreign policy often gets too little attention in the Riigikogu, also in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. We have been bothering the Prime Minister in the past with questions about this, but time flies and things change. I think that the issue of cutting the embassy network, as well as the differences in Estonia as to whether or not to stand as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, and the issues relating to the forthcoming Presidency of the European Union are things that need more attention. There are four questions that we hope to address in the near future. We would certainly like us to be able to deal with these problems with the Prime Minister even before the summer break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U9	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U10	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates four draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. First, the draft law amending the Civil Service Act (Estonia's Presidency of the Council of the European Union). In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the Act on the External Action Service. Thirdly, the draft Act ratifying the Agreement on Investment Promotion and Mutual Protection between the Republic of Estonia and Georgia and the Protocol amending it. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljurand. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Water Act. In the Riigikogu, Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. And fifthly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the international military operation Inherent Resolve'. Hannes Hanso, Minister of Defence, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U11	Honourable Riigikogu! I read a total of six drafts and two questions, and with everyone we carry on with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! There are 88 members of the Riigikogu, missing 13. Clarification of the agenda. The Bureau is very grateful that the questioners and the Minister of Finance have found a solution to the problem of poor transport connections and agreed among themselves that inquiries 202, 206, 212 and 215 will come to the meeting on 30 May and will remain off the agenda of this week. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has proposed that the 12th item of the agenda of this working week be deleted from the agenda of the Tuesday, 17 May session, i.e. the "Goodness Development Plan 2016 I have no further proposals on the agenda. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Free Party Group has one suggestion, and this is to exclude the second item from the agenda on Tuesday, i.e. the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Status of Member of the Riigikogu and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Constitutional Committee. I remember last week the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was not prepared to deal with this. Now we believe that bringing such a crucial issue here, if, for reasons beyond our control, the sitting is likely to stretch over the hours of the night, is premature and this point could be excluded from the agenda of this week.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U13	Martin Kukk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U14	Thank you. The Reform Party Group disagrees with the Free Party proposal and thinks that the Riigikogu should work on its own work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U15	Thank you. If anyone protests about changing the agenda, we will not change the agenda. With the knowledge that four requests for information and the 12th item on the agenda of the Tuesday session, entitled "The Good Development Plan 2016"2023', I will put this working week's agenda to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, 15 against, no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U16	We will begin with an inquiry by Viktor Vassilyev, Märt Sults, Marika Tuus-Laul, Dmitri Dmitriev, Mailis Reps, Anneli Ott, Jaanus Karilaid, Erki Savisaar, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Eesmaa, Andrei Novikov, Oudekki Loone, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu, Heimar Lenk, Kadri Samson, Peeter Ernits, Mikhail Korb and Siret Kotka. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U17	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Our inquiry was already submitted on 4 April and it concerns a statement by health professionals, who reached the public on 25 March, regarding the conclusion of the negotiations on a collective agreement. And the negotiations ended because they did not end with anything - health workers turned to the national conciliator. It has been almost a month and a half since the question was made, so the Minister has had time to collect data. And since the whole ministry has been helping him, he certainly has a lot of interesting answers. But the problem is still up so far, because I think our health care system has been working for years in an industrial situation. We remember that there was a health care workers' strike, and so far the issues relating to collective agreements have not been resolved. Yes, the paycheck was put on a little bit, but the issues of collective agreements such as working and rest periods, night work, compensation for work on holidays and overtime, on-call time and further training are unresolved, all of which require funding. I understand that all of this requires financial resources, but that is what the state is for to find the necessary resources. After all, health professionals are negotiating with the Hospitals Association, which is not like a real country representative. So that the state can intervene more vigorously in these processes, both in the negotiations and in the decision-making process and in their execution. Either way, the questions are still up. In any case, the order of medical assistance is unbearably long. Of course, all of this depends on financial resources, but the questions still have to be answered. There are four questions here, but there will certainly be further questions in the Chamber. But even more questions than have been written down here are certainly all Estonian residents, because health care is something that can very painfully touch any Estonian population, even without warning. And if there is still a waiting list for a specialist for several months, you can't rely on the patient to suffer in any way for these three months. You can also blame patients for putting themselves in line, but they won't show up afterwards, but you have to understand why a person puts himself in line and doesn't come to the reception. There are two reasons for this: either he was cured in the meantime or vice versa. These questions, which concern public health care, should not leave anyone indifferent. All the more so, as I have already said, each and every one of us may be affected by this matter, whether a member of the Riigikogu, a minister or a president, anyone may need medical attention. And I've also heard from a few high-ranking statesmen that he's very pleased with his family doctor that his family doctor is coming out at just two o'clock in the morning. But that Aunt Maal doesn't come out at 2:00 in the morning! On the contrary, Aunt Maal often does not get to the doctor at all because the system is being pulled together. We are now in the process of tightening medical care even in rural areas. So how these things go and what it ends for the people of Estonia, whether they are still healthy today or sick tomorrow, we are all interested not only in the people who are sitting in this Chamber now, but also in the viewers who are watching the broadcast, and in the good people who read the verbatims of our Riigikogu. They're read with a lot of interest. We will then expect answers from the Minister, which I am sure the good staff of the Ministry have written to him, to the four questions we have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U18	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U19	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, there is no doubt that health care is an extremely important area for the people of Estonia as well, which is why I thank you for the opportunity to speak on this subject here today. I will answer the four questions you have asked. The first question: 'What have you done, as Minister responsible for the field and Chairman of the Health Insurance Board, for the success of the collective agreement negotiations? Why have you not participated in formal collective bargaining? 'The Ministry of Social Affairs is not a party to a collective agreement pursuant to the law. The Ministry of Social Affairs is not the employer of health workers and, in general, employees talk to employers about work organisation and pay. In the area of health, this is being done beautifully successfully. Of course, the representatives of the Ministry have participated in all the rounds of negotiations and, together with the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, provided the necessary input to the calculations and everything needed to ensure the effectiveness of the negotiations. As a minister, I am undoubtedly interested in ensuring that there is a peace of work in the health sector. On the other hand, I agree with the need for additional resources, both for wider healthcare and for the payroll fund for health professionals. I hope that this time too, an agreement will be reached that is acceptable to all parties. As of today, negotiations are continuing with the national conciliator, which has also been the case in previous cases. Of course, it would be preferable for the parties to be able to agree without the mediator, but there is nothing entirely extraordinary here. A wider general discussion will take place at the National Conciliator on 31 May 2016. And I know that the national conciliator has spoken separately to both employers and trade unions during April. The second question: 'What are the proposals made by the Ministry and the Health Insurance Fund to raise the salaries of health workers in the coming years? ' First of all, a little background here. Health workers' salaries are mostly paid through the Health Insurance Fund and financed slightly differently, but generally as a part of the service provision. Therefore, since the Health Insurance Fund's wallet is one, as Viktor Vassilyev, a member of the Health Insurance Fund's Supervisory Board, knows very well, it is, of course, possible to make choices within this pot, and the Health Insurance Fund's Board, together with the Management Board, has made these choices. However, we must realise that if we allocate money to a single cost line each year, preferably with the funds added to the health insurance fund, such as an increase in the salaries of health care workers, then the available resources will be less available to other priority areas, which the honourable inquisitor has also talked about here, be they queues with doctors, compensation for medicines or some other costs. Perhaps it is important to mention here that, if in 2014, the doctor's minimum wage was EUR 8 per hour, this year it will be EUR 10 per hour, the nurses had 4.50, now it is 5.50, the care workers had 2.60, this year 3.30. Perhaps, given this hourly wage in cents, the increase is not so great, but if we take it as a percentage, in the last two years, the minimum salaries of health care workers have increased by more than 10% in both years. Now the real picture of health workers' salaries. According to the National Institute for Health Development, last year the average monthly salary of health care workers, including the extra fees, was EUR 2250 for doctors, EUR 1140 for nurses and EUR 674 for carers. Health professionals have been gratefully trying to put wage negotiations in the context of an international comparison. This is definitely positive. The international context here means the medical pay ratio to the national average salary. According to the calculation by the Health Insurance Fund this year, in 2016, the ratio between the average salary of specialised doctors and the average salary of the country is 2.4. This number has been found through OECD data accounting and the proportion of 2.4 is similar to many other countries. In Denmark it is 2.5, in Finland 2.6, in the United Kingdom 2.4, in Spain 2.4, in Italy 2.5. According to the Health Insurance Fund, the ratio between the average salary of nurses and the average salary of the country this year is 1.1, i.e. the same as the average for OECD countries. Thus, if you look at the wealth of the Estonian state and society purely, the salaries of our health care workers are in international comparison, you can say, at the average level. Of course, we have to take into account that Estonia has an extraordinary position in competition with its northern neighbours for these good workers. The wage level offered by the northern neighbours as a ratio to their average salary is similar to ours. The difference in absolute numbers is, of course, very large. This is also the reason why I think it will be important in the coming years for the salaries of health professionals to rise and to rise faster than the average wage, in order for there to be a convergence with the wages of Finnish health workers. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund has taken into account the increase in the wages of health care workers at the average level of Estonia in the coming years. Health care workers, of course, have wanted a higher wage increase. In the coming months, we will try to find common ground on this issue. The third question: 'How do you think the proposals made by health workers in the negotiations on working and rest periods, night work, compensation for work on holidays and overtime, on-call time, rest and further training should be taken into account? ' The price model of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund takes into account that the wage component of health care services must give the employer the necessary flexibility so that not all health care professionals can only receive a minimum wage, but can be differentiated in terms of people's wages, including due to their additional tasks or working time differences. For this purpose, the wage coefficient is applied in price calculations to doctors 1.3, nurses 1.2 and carers 1.1. In the course of the collective agreement negotiations, as you said, these questions are indeed on the table. And I think it would make sense for employers and employees to get on one page on these issues. It has to be said that the same situation has often not been described in so many aspects of this issue. The situation has been described in the same way in the hospitals' view, by healthcare professionals in a different way. I have heard of cases where hospitals really force (this may not be the right word) or make healthcare workers ignore the established working and rest rule. I have also heard that many health professionals themselves have decided to work in several places at once. This is understandable from the point of view of increasing incomes, but when a person stops night watch and goes to the next morning to do a full day's work, that certainly does not make sense from the point of view of quality and patient safety. I think that on these issues, employers and employees should really map the situation unambiguously and clearly and look for solutions to ensure the interests of workers, the interests of hospitals and the interests of patients. As regards the fact that employees, or medical workers, are in some way pressured to work beyond the working and rest standards laid down in the Employment Contracts Act, in the Republic of Estonia there are institutions where people can turn to ensure that their rights are protected. Question 4: 'How do you intend to ensure adequate funding for healthcare, given both the increase in the salaries of health professionals and the availability of medical care? ' It is true, as I have said before, that in the coming years, the Health Insurance Fund will reach a structural disadvantage with its funding. This means that in the next five years, the time will come when today's model of financing the health insurance fund will no longer be sustainable. Once again, we know that, both this year and several other years, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund has been negative in the current year, i.e. the costs have been covered by reserves. One minute these reserves run out. The situation is understandable in this sense and has been predictable for a long time. As the working age population in Estonia is reduced, the population is ageing, the health insurance system based on labour tax alone is not sustainable. We have seen this in other countries as well. In Lithuania, for example, the system has been reformed precisely in such a way that the income base of the sickness fund or health insurance has been broadened and contributions from other budget revenues have been made to the health insurance system. Estonia must do the same. The Government of the Republic has decided that the sustainability of the health care system needs to be ensured and that the financing system needs to be changed. As a result of this task, the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance, the Health Insurance Fund, the Hospitals' Association and the World Health Organisation, has analysed the situation and possible solutions in the last six months. This analysis is ready and awaits the debate in the government office, which will take place in the near future, and as a result, the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning the necessary legislative changes in order to change the system of financing health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U20	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In fact, this fourth question by the respondents is probably the most important, because all these minor issues above depend on how the sustainability of healthcare funding is ensured, which, especially in a situation where a reduction in the share of social tax health insurance is also planned, seems incomprehensible to us. Why don't you give me a little more enlightenment? I understand that a government office plan or some sort of proposal is coming up, but as your minister, I'm sure you know what the content of this proposal is. There has been a working group on health funding, which you referred to when I understood correctly, with the participation of the WHO and the various ministries. Who exactly is it made up of, and what are these proposals, which would solve the issue of healthcare financing in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U22	I am happy to forward the list of members of this working group to you in writing. I don't know the names of all the people at the moment, but the organizations are like I mentioned. Firstly, with regard to the reduction of social tax from next year, I will once again talk about it so that there is no misrepresentation that it will cause the health insurance budget to suffer. The law states that the share of social security contributions will be reduced from 13% to 12%, but at the same time these amounts will be compensated so that the health insurance budget will not suffer from it. Whether a 1% reduction in social tax is right or wrong or a political choice is another subject for debate. As of today, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will increase in the coming years, as social tax receipts will also increase. By 2020, social tax revenue is expected to increase by EUR 600 million, of which nearly a third is reported to go to the health insurance fund. At the same time, the same pressure on salaries and the increase in the cost of healthcare (new services, new medicines, etc.), of course changing the age structure of patients, certainly means that the system still needs to be reformed. During the analysis of the financing of health care, we not only focused on the narrow question of how to compensate for the structural deficit in the health insurance fund due to the decline in the working age population, but also looked at health insurance issues more broadly. This analysis, I'm going to say by memory, is about 50 pages long and I cannot present it here as a whole today. However, there are a number of important issues relating to health insurance in this context, which naturally also affect the budget, including, for example, the extent of health insurance. We know that we have about 90000 people who do not have annual health insurance at one point or another, which is definitely a problem for the health care system. We have discussed the topic of our own participation, which has already been discussed in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and we have done calculations. Our patients' own participation rate is approaching 25%, which is our so-called ceiling and means that our own participation should rather be reduced in the coming years. In this context, the first proposal will soon reach the Riigikogu. This concerns the introduction of dental benefits for adults, which reduces the participation of patients. Secondly, there is the subject of drug compensation, which will be further analysed. And the last issue, which is directly financial, indeed concerns the expansion of the revenue base. Two options have been discussed. One is the linking of certain harmful consumption taxes to health insurance. Simply put, for example, part of tobacco excise duty and alcohol excise duty would not be paid into the state budget, but directly into health insurance. That would in itself be correct in terms of the logic of the system, in my view, as in principle excise duties on alcohol and tobacco should be viewed as an additional insurance cover. Perhaps people who consume products that are harmful to health will later need more healthcare and it makes sense that they will pay more for health insurance than other people. This is one topic that has been discussed. But it does not provide a sufficiently systemic solution, including a number of risks involved. For example, the collection of excise duties on alcohol or tobacco is linked to other factors, not to public health. For example, if alcohol consumption falls during the economic crisis, as people's income decreases, as happened in 2009, less money will automatically be received by the sickness fund. That's one side of it. The other side is that if, for example, the share of tobacco or alcohol in the secret market were to increase during a period of time, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund would automatically be reduced, which is certainly a problem in itself. This has also been the case with another and, say, more meaningful or more substantive solution. Two alternative proposals have been made here, one by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the other by the Ministry of Finance, whose content is largely similar in financial terms, but the logic is slightly different. The Ministry of Finance has made calculations and offered such a scheme that every year, starting from the year in which decisions are taken, one complex formula from other government revenue would compensate the sickness fund for the structural loss of income resulting from the decline in the working age population. I can't explain it any easier. This is, frankly, a very clever financial calculation, but on the other hand, I have the question of why should it be so complicated, which is why I have proposed a different solution, and I have said it openly. I think that the state could pay social tax for persons treated as insured, i.e. older people, pensioners and children as well. And if the state paid for it, the question of the sustainability of the funding of the health insurance fund would have been resolved in itself. People are currently moving from the group of pensioners of the working age population to the group of pensioners, and if the state paid social tax for them too, this issue would in principle have been resolved in the longer term. But today, as I said, the choice between these two models has not been made, because it has not yet been discussed by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U23	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U24	Thank you. Minister Ossinovski! In your report, where you answered written questions, you also mentioned that if the Health Insurance Fund receives additional funds, they will be added to a specific line, such as an increase in wages. This means that the available funds will be reduced in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Did you mean that these available resources will be reduced as the percentage of social tax decreases? Would you be more specific about how this money goes to a certain line, such as a raise? Is that a half-per cent state budget, or in a year's time, is that a percentage compensation? Is it no longer up to the Health Insurance Fund itself to decide where more money is needed, for example, to reduce the number of treatments, but the state budget sets out what it can be used for?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U25	Thank you. I expressed myself imprecisely. The reduction in social tax has no impact on the health insurance budget. The impact is zero because it is compensated for the same amount to the health insurance fund. This compensation, as well as the rest of the money received by the sickness fund, is "free', which can be decided either way, it does not receive any particular line. What I meant to say is that the current one billion (a little more in the future) of the Health Insurance Fund means a single wallet. As we know, the provision of healthcare consists of several parts, and if we decide to prioritise one area in terms of expenditure growth in the coming years, it is possible to do so. It is possible to channel additional resources from the increase in social tax receipts into the salaries of health care workers. This can be done, and in the last two years it has actually been done. The result of previous collective bargaining, the collective agreement that is in force today, set the salaries of health care workers to increase by more than 10% in both years. And it's just to say, it's eaten up all the free resources that the Health Insurance Fund has built up. As a result, there has not been the necessary free money to adequately expand other services, for example in order to buy special medical care treatment cases. And this is certainly one of the points of principle choice, because if we prioritise one area, such as the salaries of health professionals, there will be fewer available resources to reduce, for example, the order of treatment. It's possible to decide one way or the other, I was just trying to put it in context. Naturally, as both Minister for Health and Labour and Chairman of the Health Insurance Board, I support an increase in the pay of health workers. I think this is necessary to ensure that professional medical staff in Estonia in the long term, taking into account also the competition that Finland offers us. But we just have to understand that if we prioritize it or divert all additional free resources there, it limits our chances of solving the problem of, for example, the order of treatment, extending drug compensations, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U26	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U27	Thank you. Mr. Minister! It is clear that more money is needed to increase access to health care, reduce queues, etc. Yes, of course, the low salaries of doctors leaving, the low salaries of nurses and carers leaving, which is an even bigger issue. But you have also raised two proposals here that you intend to make to this group and to the government. One is the return of money from excise duties on alcohol and tobacco to health care, and the other is that the state pays social tax for the treatment of older people and children. These same proposals have actually been made several times by the Social Democrats in 2007 and 2008, if I remember correctly, but they have never worked. How do you intend to explain these things in the government now so that all of this should be done? In essence, it is equivalent to raising money from one pocket to another. I'm afraid you're not just going through with these proposals. We, too, have made the same proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U28	Thank you. Once again, the Health Insurance Fund will manage its budget in the coming years. The more funds we need from the collection of social tax, the more we can expand services, shorten treatment queues, etc. In view of the different scenarios, there are different forecasts for the Health Insurance Fund in 2020 or 2022, for some scenarios in 2023, the structural deficit. This means that from then on, the current revenue base will no longer be able to cope, just not. Therefore, it is no longer really a question of any kind of political choice of a system that needs to be changed. Of course, it can be said that the debate on this amendment has been going on for ten years now. The fact that the fund of the Health Insurance Fund is going into a structural deficit by the end of this decade was long known, for we have seen our demographic situation for a long time. The truth is that these decisions could have been made earlier. Of course you could have. However, during this parliamentary term, it is necessary to adopt these decisions in any case in order to ensure the sustainability of healthcare funding in the longer term. And I think we can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U29	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U30	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Minister Tsahkna said here weeks ago that pension insurance is not sustainable in Estonia. Now you have brought us the following news that healthcare funding is also unsustainable. I will then ask how sustainable it is if you reduce social tax and the five budgets somewhere in the 80 to 100 million euros a year. You may say that it will be levelled at the expense of other public funds, but I am not entirely convinced that it will still be sustainable. It is a question of political choices. Why did you not prefer to reduce your unemployment insurance tax, which has enough money to cover more than half a billion euros, and have undertaken a reduction in your social security tax? It's a political question, and you're a member of the cabinet. Why did you make that decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U31	As I said, this issue does not directly concern the financing of health care, given that this same amount is offset by other revenue from the state budget. When we talk about other revenue from the state budget, it does not matter whether we are taking this money out of unemployment insurance, health insurance or elsewhere, because in the big picture of this picture, what the state budget law says about the structural position of the general government, it is all the same money pot. For example, in this same analysis of the sustainability of healthcare funding, it has been discussed for many years to withdraw temporary incapacity benefit from the health insurance fund as a cost line and to move it to the unemployment fund. This can be done, and this is one of the proposals that the government will definitely discuss, but it is essentially a transfer of money from one pocket to another. We're gonna take these expenses away from the Health Insurance Fund and transfer them to the Unemployment Insurance Fund. The unemployment fund certainly has more reserves, but in the balance picture of the government sector, the budgetary impact of this step is close to zero, i.e. not close to zero, but zero. That's the money from one pocket to another. So, if the financial volume is the same, it doesn't change anything in the big picture, in the financial plan, either to lower one or the other tax or taxes imposed on the labour force. In the same way, the transfer of temporary incapacity benefits from the sickness fund to the unemployment fund does not mean that this cannot be done. This government has had the political will to lower taxes on labour. He could have decided to reduce social security contributions as well as unemployment insurance. The reduction of social tax, I say frankly, was not my priority or my party's priority, but it is still the case in coalition governments that there is agreement and search for a common section between political parties on various issues. It is important to me here that, as a result, the health insurance budget does not suffer. So there's no fear of health care getting any worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U32	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U33	Good manager! Good minister! As I understand it, the Health Insurance Fund is on the edge of this financing model, and the nurses' salary will not reach the 2015 level next year. But my question concerns those 90,000 or 100,000 people who do not have health insurance. If they had it, would the Health Insurance Fund be in the abyss by now? Do we have to avoid this, i.e. it's better if these 100,000 people don't get health insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U34	Thank you. First of all, let us not create excessive emotions - the budget of the sickness fund is not at the edge of the abyss. We're just going to look a little longer than a year ahead and see that in about five years, we're going to go into a structural minus. And now is the time to make these decisions so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where we did not make decisions at the right time and have problems financing health care. So in the coming years, the Health Insurance Fund's budget will grow along with the rise in the income of social tax and it will be able to cope with its work. It is rather a question of which priorities to pay attention to with this additional money. Whether it is employees' salaries, which is certainly an important issue, or whether it is, for example, reducing queues, which is certainly an important issue for people. So this is where the right balance has to be found. Now, as far as people without health insurance are concerned, there are different types of people in this group. A large number of them are young men, for example, who, as a rule, are quite healthy and have not taken health insurance for themselves, this is not the right word, i.e. have not met these conditions in order to receive health insurance. Why it's like that requires a little more analysis. We ourselves believe that a certain number of them work abroad, which means they have health insurance, but it belongs to another country. Maybe for our statistics, they are without health insurance, but they are actually insured in Finland, for example. Another group of people are those who most likely work 'black', i.e. without a contract of employment. Because they're healthy now, they think they don't need health insurance, and they don't see the need to see a doctor. In the short term, it is believed that work can also work without paying taxes, get more income and give up this benefit. This is certainly a matter for further consideration, including with the tax administration. From the point of view of the health system, however, we do have tens of thousands of Estonian people who are not well-insured. The real logic of our system, the logic of universal solidarity compulsory insurance, requires that in fact all residents of Estonia should be insured for medical treatment. And as a country, I think we should move in this direction, perhaps really trying to give people health insurance. This is extraordinarily reasonable in terms of the health system, for example, because when a person is uninsured, he or she does not receive scheduled, normal health care, nor does he or she go to a family doctor for examination. And if she has a very serious health problem and she's going to the emergency department, we'll give her the inevitable help. Unavoidable help is often much more expensive than solving human health concerns at an earlier stage. There are also very many people in this group who work in Estonia but do not work here permanently. We have a whole bunch of people who have jobs that are jumpy for a few months, then they don't work, then they work again, and in these cases, there really are gaps in health insurance. I think it might be worth solving. And the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance, is analyzing the possibilities of bringing these people with a jumpy employment to a better "health insurance" picture, because here too, the health system creates a ridiculous situation. One month a person is insured, goes to a doctor and gets one part of his health care, but if he goes to a doctor again next month, he will no longer have health insurance. He'll have to wait for another time. In terms of medicine, of course, such a system is bad. The reason why we have so far limited it in this way is, in fact, tax receipts, i.e. that health insurance is clearly one of the motivations for increasing official employment. This is why very many people, however, are officially paid and also pay taxes. They receive other social benefits, including pensions, and are guaranteed health insurance. If we guarantee health insurance even if a person does not pay taxes, then the legitimate fear of the Ministry of Finance is that there will be an increase in informal employment. And with it, people's social guarantees will actually be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U35	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In answer to the second question of the question of raising the pay of health workers in the coming years, you said that this depends in many respects on the advantages of channelling money. And you also pointed out that this depends on the priority being given to these salaries or treatment queues or something else. If we have an increase of some 600 million by 2020, I am particularly interested in what these priorities we have. Which sectors are preferred: are these salaries or treatment queues, are they dental care or own participation? What are these priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U37	I think I made myself a little inaccurate again. What I was trying to say is that the health fund's wallet is one, and if we transfer money or free resources to one of those possible cost lines, there will be fewer on the other lines. However, we do know that the same collective agreement between health workers is negotiated by employers and employees, and the state does not participate. We really call on social partners to make responsible agreements on this issue. It is precisely because, of course, it is possible to put all the additional money available in the salaries of health care workers, but this means that we will have less for other cost lines and ultimately it will affect the functioning of the health care system as a whole. In fact, both health care professionals and hospitals understand that. Secondly, once again, in recent years, basically all the available resources have gone into the salaries of health workers. The current collective agreement is a very worker-friendly wage increase of over 10% in both years, which is far above the average in Estonia. When it comes to people working in health care, some of them say that this collective agreement is actually too much. A lot of hospitals have trouble filling it up. We know that the Health Insurance Fund has also had to actually draw up other lines in its budget in order to comply with this collective agreement. So the last collective agreement is one where all the available resources have basically become salaries for health workers. If health professionals and the Hospitals Association should agree once again on such a collective agreement, it should be taken into account that the available resources will, for example, be reduced by reducing queues, adding new health services to the list, for medicines and other things. That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U38	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U39	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! The fact that Bismarck's imaginary solidarity insurance system does not work under the conditions of liberal market medicine is not news to anyone. And before you make any changes in the system that you allow here, something could be done under the circumstances. And my question concerns the percentage of GDP that goes to healthcare. In recent years it has been 5.9¢6%. 6.2% were promised this year, but when the state budget was presented, it turned out that this percentage was 5.2 so that 1% was missing. If this is explained by the fact that GDP simply rose and the percentage fell, then in reality, some funds were created. Why were they not targeted at health care?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U40	Dear Ignorant! I have answered that question before in this Chamber. As a member of the Board of Health Insurance and as a member of the Riigikogu, including a long-term member of the Social Affairs Committee, you know very well that the overall share of health expenditure in GDP, which is 6%, consists of two parts: the state's contribution to health care and the participation of patients. That's about 6% of the total. Now this percentage, which was in the state budget, is clearly the percentage of GDP that the state places in public money for health care. It's really less than 6%, so I don't know, but you're saying it's 5.2%, probably 5.2%. So all the additional resources arising from the collection of social tax will be allocated to the health insurance fund according to the law. There is no way, and no one has planned to put it anywhere else. You used the term 'liberal market medicine'. This is not really the case in Estonia, as you know very well. However, the state is very clearly responsible for the health system as a whole, which concerns the availability of specialist medical care. While we basically have hospitals functioning as private legal entities, we are well aware that the state has actually prioritised hospitals in the development plan for the hospital network, which are legally imprecise, but in essence can be called public hospitals. Perhaps health care institutions with responsibility for providing health care in Estonia have been given preferential treatment because it is stipulated that they must ensure that this solidarity system works.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U41	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In answering the questions, you mentioned that, in order to balance the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, for example, the state could pay extra to the Health Insurance Fund for pensioners and children. You have certainly analysed how much budgetary resources this would require. Can you tell me what size numbers we're talking about here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U43	We've still been analyzing. In the first phase, the fundamental question is that the system needs to be changed. In any case, it would also be worth revising this system in a purely revenue-neutral or budgetary way, in order to ensure that funding is stable in the future, it would not become unsustainable. I would prefer to put the billion euros we have at the current level of funds, not in the way we do today, that we have 13% of the social tax. I would not only collect this amount from the taxes of the working people, but also from the elderly and children. This is likely to mean that the percentage of employees' health insurance should be reduced and paid together to the health insurance fund for all of them. The question of how to build up the income model of the sickness fund in terms of the logic of the system should be looked at separately from the question of how much more healthcare money is needed. This is my message. This year, hopefully in the coming weeks, we will be discussing the sustainability of health funding at government level. We are discussing, in particular, not how many million euros would be needed for health care, but how to create a financing system that would ensure the sustainability of the Health Insurance Fund for the longer term. In parallel, there is, of course, a need to discuss how to get more healthcare money. It has been agreed that the state will increase the amount of EUR 12 million in dental care compensation from next year. If we look at the need for uncovered treatment, for example, that we have taken the lead in strengthening the primary level in order to make the family doctor centres stronger, then the first round of application for European Union funds has now ended. The one where we have received 60 million euros of applications. It is clear that if we strengthen the family medical centres in essence, we extend their teams, this will also mean the need for additional resources and this issue should be addressed separately. We do, of course, have certain estimates, but as far as the money figures are concerned, I must, unfortunately, wait for the discussion of the Government of the Republic on this subject first, so as not to make unscathed promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U44	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U45	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In your speech here, you said that the average salary for nurses today is 1100 euros. Please specify whether it includes night shifts and overtime! How has such a sum been received?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U46	Indeed, this EUR 1140 for nurses and EUR 2250 for doctors has an average monthly salary with all the extra fees. And it's probably going to be the difference that health professionals have pointed out in their numbers. So, with all the extra charges, the salaries of nursing staff were above the average in Estonia last year, 1.1 or 110% of the Estonian average. This is, as I said, a good result in international comparison. However, we do know that the shortage of nurses is one of the most important problems in the health care system. The Hospitals' Association has brought this out, and I in itself support the need for more bottom-up assistance for nurses' wages so that we have more nurses in our health care. And in this context, I certainly hope that the social partners will also succeed in concluding such agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U47	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U48	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When we talk about wage levels and people who work in health care, we also have to talk about this, and Vassilyev has already talked about the state policy of financing the health insurance fund. We have 6% of GDP. I remember 12% in France and so on. I think every time, what is the point of signing this collective agreement if we know exactly that there is no money. We see nervousness, we see tears, we see all kinds of moments in signing it. The inescapability is that we are essentially cutting the money we give to hospitals and their employees. Perhaps we do not need this agreement, but we are doing the free market in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U49	Thank you. I think we still need this contract. I am very much in favour of collective negotiations in general. I think it will help employers and employees to get to one page better and it is worth keeping. In general, the practice shows that agreements are also reached. And once the agreements have been reached, it is usually possible to ensure that these agreements are complied with. Indeed, we have had cases where, for example, some hospitals have failed to comply with the requirements of the collective agreement. Yeah, it's happened. But in general, the Health Insurance Fund has worked hard to ensure that the terms of the collective agreement really are met, and so have hospitals. As far as this percentage of GDP is concerned, I have been talking about this in this Chamber sometime, i.e. what should be Estonia's goal, how much of GDP we should spend on health care. My percentage goals, I say frankly, don't shine, because they often hide the actual content back there. While in some countries, for example, 12% of our 6% is spent on health systems, there are huge differences here and it is difficult to compare. But this difference can, for example, mask the horrific inefficiency of the system, that money is wasted in vain, and that can be the case. So just to say that if we spent more on health care, we would automatically have better health care, we cannot because the practice in other countries does not always confirm this. You can spend more and get the same bad service. There are quite a number of such examples. The Estonian system has been extremely effective. This has come at a certain price: we really have a problem with the fact that we have an uncovered need for treatment. Somewhere around 7% of people who have not been able to get health care have not received it. Our system also has a lot of pros. This is solidarity, which means that regardless of income, a person receives health care services equally with others from the health insurance budget. Thus, if we take uncovered medical needs according to income groups, then the access to health care in Estonia is very similar to that of the richest and poorest. We really have this problem that we have queues, but there are queues everywhere, but in some areas they are, yes, unacceptablely long, but the solidarity system is guaranteed. Let us compare this with Latvia, for example. They have reached the point in their system that, in the case of the richest, there is an uncovered need for treatment of 5%, but in the case of the poorest, about a third are uncovered, i.e. the scissors are very large. This is one of the most important achievements of our system, the foundations, and it is certainly worth preserving, not dismantling. Lately, there are also some signals that, as the money is scarce, we are moving the entire health care system to the principles of private medicine. This would certainly result in more prosperous people receiving better health care, poorer people not having any other performance here. Now I say that with this 6% too, having looked inside this system, it is possible to do things more effectively. For the EUR 1 billion that we are spending, it is also possible to provide people with better healthcare than we are offering today. So you could say that we have 6%, and we are spending too little, compared to other countries, that we just need more money, but we do not just need more money. More money is also needed, but at the same time within the system we need to look at what can be done more effectively. One thing that can certainly be done more effectively is prevention. A very large part of the costs incurred by the health insurance fund to cure illness would actually be preventable. They are usually not preventable within the medical system, but more generally, in terms of public health, this prevention can be done. Whether it is alcohol damage, which results in direct costs of approximately EUR 30 million per year (1000 alcohol deaths, plus a number of alcohol-related diseases), or tobacco, HIV, drugs or overweight. Very many things really affect how many people we need in the first place. We would bring this figure down significantly if we could improve our public health figures. They are not very good in Estonia with alcohol is bad, tobacco is quite bad, drugs are very bad, HIV is exceptionally bad. The excess is growing at a rapid pace, along with the growth in society's prosperity. These are topics where it would actually be possible to make this number significantly better. The other side is that the patient must receive the necessary healthcare at the right time and on the right level. The people of Estonia have a very specialized doctor's faith. That means that with every little thing, everyone wants to go to a specialist right away. In fact, family medicine has been developed in Estonia for a long time. We have many fine family doctors who can solve most of people's health problems without having to go to a specialist. That is why we are working on developing health centres, i.e. strengthening the family doctor level, the general medical care level. It is precisely so that people receive most of the health care services from these same health centres and should not go to a specialist. That would definitely shorten the order. The third half is already completely technical, but it would contribute to an increase in the quality of health care. It's the same lines in technical terms. Last year the number of people in line for a specialist in Estonia increased by 9%. We don't think we got 9% sicker in one year, do we? No, you didn't! But they signed up for more doctors. This system definitely needs to be changed. And we are working to launch a national digital registration office where a person can really choose which hospital and when he can get to a doctor, and he can sign up for it once. We have cases where people register several times, several places at the same time with a doctor. As a result, those who actually need a service are waiting for those who have registered in several places. And one of the reasons why people don't show up is because they've already gotten their services in another hospital, but they won't cancel their appointments. It seems to be a small technical matter, but it actually has a significant impact on how better healthcare can be provided. So it is also possible to manage more efficiently and better within today's system. On the other hand, there is, of course, a need for additional resources for health care.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U50	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have this question: do you not think that a change in the financing model of the health care system you have proposed must be made to the tax system of Estonia as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U52	No, you're not. However, it is worth changing which taxes are due. I'm sure that's what I think, unlike the Ministry of Finance. The ministries of finance are beautifully the same in every country. They never support the fact that a tax is directly linked to a cost, that revenue is linked to a cost. Let's all get in that big state budget pot run by the Ministry of Finance, and then we can decide where to put it. I believe that health insurance needs a solid income base, fixed by law, which is not being touched in one direction or another each year according to political decisions or pressure, but which is stable over the years and can be forecasted and built up in a health care system. That means we have to agree. If we have agreed so far that a certain percentage of social tax will go into health insurance, then now we have to agree on a new model of how much and what kind of taxes the health insurance budget will be. So there is no need to ensure the sustainability of health insurance for the entire tax system. Whether this is necessary for other reasons is once again a separate question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U53	Thank you to Mr Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, for your thorough and substantive answers. I'm opening negotiations. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U54	Mr. Chairman! I would like to thank the Minister. It's been a while since I've heard such honest answers from this remote. The other thing is, do people like these answers, for example, in the order of a specialist doctor for months? They might want to hear something that's okay, goes over, gets well, but now they say you're not going to get away with it, you're going to have a seizure before you die. Yeah, unfortunately, it's just the way it is. In answer to the questions, the Minister said in answer to the first question, what he, as Minister, has done to improve the health situation in order to improve the health care situation and participate in the negotiations, quite honestly, that this is the case: he is not a negotiating party and what he can still do. You can't kick open the door, you can't rush in! Although the Minister should still have some mechanisms to influence processes, that is why he is the Minister. And I wouldn't dare say that this isn't an extraordinary thing when it comes to a national conciliator. This means that the situation is still not beautiful, it is a constant quarrel. Well, this can't be a normal situation. The second question was again answered by the Minister that the Health Insurance Fund is responsible for everything and that wages are one of the components of health care costs, there are other costs. Of course, something needs to be changed at the health insurance fund, because the current system is not working well. That was quite rightly stated by the Minister. But I would say that at the same time as some new models are being developed, a new financing system, something should be done with the system that is currently in force, because something can still be done. Health care is not funded exclusively by the Health Insurance Fund; some services come directly from the state budget. The cost structure of the Health Insurance Fund also includes costs that could be raised elsewhere, even if they were paid for sick days, even the cost of boxes for sick homes. Something could still be done more so that the cost of boxes in sick homes is still subject to taxes. So there's a way to find some kind of reserves. As always, the focus of the talk was that health workers are greedy, demanding wages and wages. In this case, they don't charge wages. They demand that their working conditions be adjusted. And today doctors and nurses are not fleeing Estonia because of the salary number alone. Those who escaped for their wages have already escaped. Whoever's left here, they'd like to work. But it doesn't match the ethics of a health care professional if the doctor can't perform scheduled operations at the end of the block. That's the point. And if you can't find the money to pay for further training. After all, this is essential for medical staff, and without regular training, people cannot be treated; it is simply not possible. Yes, we have received a number of answers and ideas here: we could tax harmful consumption, the state could pay social tax on those who have already paid their taxes, like pensioners. They've already paid their taxes, but then we'll pay double, except it comes from other payers. Once again, we are talking about paying taxes, as is the case in our country in recent times. And that's the way we asked, but did we get smarter? I am not sure that funding for healthcare will be sufficient. Well, we didn't get that answer. They said the health insurance fund wasn't on the edge of the abyss yet, but he's going there and there's either a long or a short way to go, it'll be clear when he starts to fall. Will our medical attention be better? We didn't get a yes to that. But there are doubts that it will become even worse. Well, there's always hope. There's another facility across the street where hope is given. It belongs to another organization, it's a church. But unfortunately, there wasn't much hope for us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U55	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U56	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, first of all, for your meaningful and constructive answers. Indeed, as you said, compliance with the current collective agreement for health professionals is already beyond the reach of some health care establishments. That is the difficult task that has led to the fact that some hospitals no longer have full - time doctors. The conclusion of the new agreement therefore needs to be seen in a broader picture, i.e. as a question that is still and only linked to the model of financing health care and its sustainability. The root causes of the industrial dispute are largely twofold. Insufficient funding for health care is the first cause of a labour dispute, which also makes it difficult to conclude a new collective agreement. If the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is what it is now, it will not be possible to raise salaries without being pulled together elsewhere. This means that if we do not find additional funding, the order for treatment will continue to decrease. And that is what we all feel as an increase in the order of treatment, which in turn leads to a deterioration in the availability of treatment and, in the long term, to a deterioration in public health, which again increases the need for healthcare. We're actually in a relatively closed and closed circle. Another reason has been the question of the undistributed profits of the health insurance fund, which are then kept in order to maintain the balance of the state budget. In Estonia, health insurance tax payers are about the same as non-payers. This means that our health insurance income base is not sustainable with 13% of the social tax. Taking into account our demographic situation, 6,000 fewer people of working age per year and an increase in the number of dependants from 1.6 to 2.4 by 2040, it is obvious that health care needs to be found and additional funding is urgently needed. We have repeatedly questioned and tried to understand why the government wants to reduce the share of social security contributions from 13% to 12%. All the more so because employers have not really praised this very much because they do not feel a very significant change here. Yes, the Minister has repeatedly told us that do not worry, it does not change the balance of health insurance, it does not suffer from this change, because it is compensated for by other revenue from the state budget, but it is still the equivalent of several tens of million taxes per year that will not be collected into the state budget. And yet we are also critical of how much we contribute from GDP to our health care. The Minister has said that he doesn't really care much about these numbers, but I think it still shows something if this number is 5.9, and for example, the average of 28 countries in the European Union is 8.7. I still need a little more funding here. We must recognise and agree with the Minister that there are a great many tools to influence the sustainability of healthcare funding and that they are multi-level, some of them short-term, some of them achievable in the long term. Whether it is improving public health, raising the birth rate, increasing employment, improving the efficiency of the health system, increasing the financing of healthcare through tax base diversification, increasing the contribution of the state budget and local authorities, or also changing their ownership. However, an increase in the cost of health care is justified only if the additional resource produces human health and satisfaction. An increase in costs in itself cannot be an objective if it does not provide us with better access to healthcare, better health and meeting the expectations of the population. If we don't have enough money, share it any way you want, there won't be any more. We therefore continue to look forward to the analysis of the Government of the Republic and the proposals to diversify funding, which will certainly help to resolve the problem of work in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U57	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to participate in any more negotiations, and the same is true of the Minister. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U58	And now, ladies and gentlemen, a free microphone. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U59	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! I didn't have time to tell everything I wanted to tell the respected Minister of Health and Labour. People who watch a television broadcast or later read a verbatim would like to hear that talk. I don't have much to say to the Minister that the Minister himself doesn't know. However, I wanted to tell him that he had honest answers to today's inquiry, not every minister gives such answers. So, in my opinion, such a minister would have a place in the new coalition if the government changed and the Reform Party was pushed out of power. Anyway, I think that's the kind of offer he can get if the situation changes. However, you can talk about health care in Estonia, its situation and its funding for a very long time, but not about ordinary people, let's say, a patient from every resident of Estonia can become a patient, so it can happen that the percentages, some financing models, etc. are not particularly interesting. He's interested in a very simple thing: getting rid of the pain. But how do you get rid of the pain when the queues are long and just can't get to the doctor? The queues are long not only because the wages of doctors are low, but not because all necessary health services are provided in Estonia. There are operations that are carried out elsewhere, but there are no operations in Estonia. There are services that are provided elsewhere, but are not provided in Estonia. For example, in Estonian pharmacies, the names of medicines on sale are six times less than in Finland. We simply cannot maintain a full healthcare system. Why do we have doctors and nurses working in multiple places? Not because of greed, but because patients need help, and so they run from place to place. Why do we have a pay-per-view at night with a doctor who doesn't see the sick during the day? But because the Health Insurance Fund doesn't have enough money. He often sits and spins his thumbs, the doctor's in his office, the patient's in the hallway, but they can't get together, the door's in between. The Health Insurance Fund won't let you open the door. Well, then you're supposed to have an evening reception. There's nothing you can do about it. It's an emergency solution that a patient has to pay from his own pocket. Why do people put themselves in line for a number of doctors, just as young children are placed in a number of kindergartens? But that's precisely because there's a line. That's why they do it! If it's a deficiency, you're gonna try and get it out of here or out of here and out of fear, they're gonna put themselves in line with a bunch of doctors. If it wasn't for the queue, they wouldn't register in many places. The Minister said that bad hospitals force their employees to work in several places. The hospital doesn't force them to do it, it's the patients. And once again, we come to see that you see people are sick, people want to come to the doctor, people are burdening the health care system, they are burdening the country, they are the burden of a very interesting logic for this country. It shouldn't be like that! It is said here that the social system is not sustainable. The Minister said that the health system is not sustainable. What, then, is sustainable in our country? Is such a country sustainable? The country still starts with people, because if people don't have health, they don't pay taxes, they don't support the country, and then we have nothing. Is this the kind of Estonia we wanted? We still wanted a country where people live well and happily, where they get health care if they need it, and where they are not blamed for not being able to pay you for dental care, because if we allocate this money, then you bastards will all come and fix your teeth and you'll beat that money. With that attitude, we won't get far. And I am quite sure that not man exists as a useful substrate for the state, but that the state must still be human. This is the country we wanted, it makes sense to live and work for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U60	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U61	Mr President of the sitting! The Monday agendas have been so long for a long time that the last time I was able to wait for a free microphone was two months ago. But today's flight failure gives me a chance to get on with my subject. There is a second reading in the queue, which is a substantive work on the draft of the Riigikogu after the first reading has ended. And when the first reading was completed, he had to give two positive answers. It is that this proposed and proposed law is needed and that the proposed draft is suitable for a new law. The second reading begins with the submission of amendments. There are ten working days for this in the current Rules of Procedure. I think this is one of the most positive decisions in our many shortcomings in the Rules of Procedure. The ten working days rule is well known and, at the same time, it is flexible so that in some cases it could be shorter or in some cases longer. Who are the ones submitting the amendments? Formally, every member of the Riigikogu, every committee of the Riigikogu and every political group of the Riigikogu have the right to submit amendments. Now that we are looking at how this amendment is being tabled, in fact, the amendments come from a variety of other sources. The author of the draft is the most important of these. As a rule, in the case of government drafts, the Ministry in which it is drawn up comes with a large number of its amendments. Other public authorities often come with them. In addition, various social organisations come with their opinions. If these proposals are taken into account by the Commission, they will be drawn up as if they were drawn up by the Commission. This little lie is, in my opinion, completely acceptable. What is lacking is certainly that, by now, this practice or the necessary line of work has almost disappeared, so that committees propose amendments to the pending drafts of other committees, if there is a part of the draft that concerns the area of work of this committee. In the current composition of the Riigikogu, we have had some examples where a letter from another Riigikogu committee really comes. But I imagine that, if there is any interaction, it will be somehow that an advisor from one Commission will call another committee and ask if there is anything in the draft or if there are any comments. Our main problem with processing the amendments is that Article 106 of our Rules of Procedure states that if the amendment does not receive at least two votes in favour of the commission, it cannot be put to the vote in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. There's a lot of things here now. On the one hand, this is a typical handshake for saving time, but on the other hand, two different parliamentary models have been confused here. There are quite a few parliaments in the world where individual proposals are almost never voted in full, only a few fundamental decisions will be voted on or, at the end of the act, the adoption of the law. And there are other parliaments, which are like us, where practically all the amendments up to the last detail can be put to the vote in plenary. The most beautiful part of second reading is that I think it is now the only place where Riigikogu members have been given the opportunity to make speeches. Only recently, during the debate on administrative reform, we heard a very beautiful and lasting range of speeches. The only problem with these speeches was that they should have taken place at first reading, because their idea was largely how the draft should be different. According to my previous experience in the Riigikogu, speeches at second reading were essentially such that why this amendment, which I or we tabled, is better and why we should vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-16_U62	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! Monday's session is adjourned. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.40 p.m.
