ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the 4th plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U2	Due to the suspension of the mandate of the member of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, due to his appointment as a member of the Government of the Republic and the resignation of Alar Nääme, he took up his duties. a On December 11, Toomas Paur was a member of the Riigikogu. Let's hear his oath. Please, Thomas Paur!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! Tarmo Tamm has been appointed Minister of Rural Affairs by decision of the President of the Republic No 32 of 9 December. Now let's hear the oath of Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U6	And now that there are 101 of us again, we can hand over drafts and inquiries. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, That beer and vodka are useful if you use them in a rational way, Anton Hansen Tammsaare will tell us through his characters. The problem in our society is excessive alcohol consumption and alcoholism. That is probably why Minister of Labour and Health Ossinovski has committed himself to banning alcohol advertising. At the same time, the root causes of alcoholism as a vice have not been clear to the end, and the impact of alcohol advertising on excessive alcohol consumption has not yet been confirmed by studies. So far, it has not been established that advertising directs anyone to drink alcohol. On the contrary, the reality so far, the income of this and of alcohol duty in previous years, have shown that alcohol consumption in our society is generally decreasing. Thus, 20 members of the Reform Party have seven questions for Minister Ossinovski, to which we would like good answers, about the planned increase in the excise duty on lean alcohol from the left coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U8	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U9	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good manager! Knowledge of the national language is undoubtedly very important, especially for young schoolchildren who are entering into life. So far, we have had a clear consensual effort in the country so that all young people can learn enough Estonian when they finish school. But unfortunately, the new coalition has come up with some very confusing explanations. Although some questions were asked by the Prime Minister in Question Time last week, the answers remained vague. Therefore, on behalf of the members of the Riigikogu, we present an inquiry into Estonian-language education in Russian-language schools. There are six questions. We want to find out why the aim is to change the language policy, which is its real purpose, why double messages are being sent to different audiences, etc. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U10	Who's the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U11	The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U12	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U13	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Thirteen members of the Reform Party Group have an inquiry to Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. This is about following good legislative practice in recent times in this Chamber. Since the legislative process must be predictable and open in accordance with point 6 of the 'Provisions of Justice Policy until 2018', we ask what the Minister of Justice thinks about it, whether everything that has taken place corresponds to that point. We have three questions for him and we're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U14	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U15	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law amending the Natural Gas Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when the bill is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U16	I have adopted one bill and three inquiries. We will continue to work with them in accordance with the rules laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 95 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session, 6 is missing. Honourable Riigikogu! Before we go to the adoption of the agenda, we have another issue to resolve. Namely, today the Riigikogu Board received three requests to extend the time for making available the documents on which the debate was based, i.e. until 6 p.m. tomorrow, due to the continuation of the second reading. The Bureau was unanimous on two drafts: 344, a proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and 299, a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs. However, the Bureau did not agree on extending the notification of the 302 amendments to the draft law. Two members of the Management Board of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal of the Monetary Commission and one was against. Since the Management Board of the Riigikogu did not reach a consensus on this issue, I hereby put the matter to an off- agenda vote in the Riigikogu plenary session on the basis of § 16 (4) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and the right of the member of the Management Board, to be honest with you. Honourable Riigikogu! Who is in favour of shortening the time taken to make the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws 302 available to the members of the Riigikogu and to make the documents available by 18:00 on 13 December? Please take a stand and vote. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 39 against, no abstentions. The time taken to make available the documents underlying the debate on the continuation of the second reading of the Bill 302 has been extended. Now we have the agenda approval. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu has proposed to add a new item to the agenda of this working week's Wednesday session, namely the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Anti-Corruption Committee' by the Estonian Central Party Group to the draft 348 at first reading. I agree with the proposal that the debate on draft 348 be added to the 12th item of the Wednesday sitting. Does anyone have a protest against this proposal? Honourable Riigikogu! It goes so far that, if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to add to the agenda, you have the right to protest here. I ask if these names on this table mean protest against this proposal. Andres Herkel? No, it doesn't. Valdo Randpere? It doesn't. Okay, so we have adopted the proposal. Now other issues that are procedural and related to the agenda. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U17	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question on the agenda. There tends to be more confusion here than usual. This same bill 302 is the tenth item on the Wednesday agenda. I understood the chairman of the committee in this way, during the procedure of this draft last week and later in the committee, that in the case of such extensive tax changes, Minister Sven Sester will come before the Riigikogu with this bill on the continuation of second reading. Is it a typographical error or a misconception that his name is missing from the 10th item on Wednesday?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U18	Thank you. This is not because the Minister of Finance Sven Sester has not yet informed the Riigikogu of his arrival. I'm sure we'd all be happy to listen to him. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I question Wednesday item 8, bill 299. In short, it is also possible to apply for legal aid in the Republic of Estonia in Russian. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this last week and sent it to this hall for a second reading this week. Today, however, it was suddenly put back on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs for this week. Tomorrow we will discuss it with Reinsalu at lunch, not even at an official committee meeting, because that was not what we had planned. I feel like there's some sort of cow trade going on, but I don't know if we have to be part of it. The Commission has not received any new information on this; it is likely that some amendments will come between two meals tomorrow at lunch. I do not know whether the plenary of the Riigikogu should discuss such a fully-fledged draft. It's becoming a tradition. Last week was exactly the same with the cluster bill, now there is another draft that the Commission has not been able to examine. I think it's a lie. I'm embarrassed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U20	Well, that's what we found out. But what is your suggestion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U21	My first suggestion is to give me a microphone. Now that you have given it to me, I have another suggestion that we take this draft out of the weekly agenda, because it is completely crude, immature or whatever we express.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U22	Got it. Honourable Riigikogu! A member of the Riigikogu, Valdo Randpere, proposed to remove from the Wednesday agenda a draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 299. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U23	Thank you. In the opinion of the Social Democratic Party Group, there is nothing crude about this bill. We cannot agree with this proposal in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U24	Got it. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U25	Thank you, good Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu! I am a little concerned, because the 299 is concerned not only with the eighth item on Wednesday, but also with the second item on Thursday if the third reading is to be made. How can a work be done in the Riigikogu at all, if today, when a draft is put on the committee's agenda, which will be discussed tomorrow, even the chairman of the committee will not be able to answer the question of what kind of proposal is going to be reversed? Why hasn't any documents been prepared? How will the political groups be able to formulate and discuss proposals tomorrow at 2 p.m., when the deadline for tabling amendments is tomorrow until 6 p.m., as we previously voted on? This is not a reasonable period of processing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U26	The proposal to extend this deadline came from the Commission itself, so I hope that the Commission will be able to discuss it. If not, then the reading of Bill 299 will be cancelled on Wednesday. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the Bureau prematurely extended the deadline for the submission of material. The Free Party Group also considers that this draft should be removed from the agenda this week, i.e. the eighth item on Wednesday and the second item on Thursday, where the third reading is planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U28	Valdo Randpere's proposal was for Wednesday, I get it. Honourable Riigikogu! The Free Party Group and Andres Herkel have proposed to remove from the agenda both Wednesday and Thursday the draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U29	Thank you. There will be interesting proposals here, but the Group of the Social Democratic Party cannot agree with them in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U30	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, the debate continues as it did last week. I propose that we remove the 10th item on Wednesday, draft 302. There are many reasons, as was the case last week. One of them is that only today at 3:30 p.m. will the Commission begin its first meeting with the organisations that are expressing their views on this draft. Before the material is even made available on time, it would be funny for us to start discussing these things here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U32	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U33	I just want to be more specific. If there seemed to be some contradiction between Mr Herkel and me in the opposition, it is completely missing, especially if you look at the agenda, because on Thursday it is said that the same 299 third reading will come when the second one is closed. If there is no second reading, the third cannot happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U34	Okay, let's take this into account. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have discussed in a rather long and thorough manner before that it is not appropriate to do two readings in one week. What is the urgent reason that we should do two readings, or second and third readings, in the case of this draft one week?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U36	The Board of the Riigikogu has asked this question and received such an answer: the urgent reason is that the law must be passed before the state budget is adopted. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U37	Thank you. I'm trying to keep track. My colleague, Kristen Michal, proposed that 302 be removed from the Wednesday agenda. You don't agree with that. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U38	Got it. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U39	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Unlike the socialist community, however, we appreciate democratic principles and reasonable time to prepare for the third reading. We are therefore very united in the opposition, together with the Reform Party and the Free Party, and we really ask that the points mentioned above be removed from this week's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U40	Thank you. This proposal, too, has already been rejected earlier. Honourable Riigikogu! After all, everything is clear. Some try to adopt the state budget and before the laws, others try to express their differences of opinion. It's all understandable. It is the responsibility of the board to take account of the wishes of both parties. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U41	In fact, I find it semantically incomprehensible how it is possible to decide in advance that this law needs to be passed before the state budget, if we do not even know what the substance of this law is. If this cow trade now goes unhappy, i.e. it will not be necessary to accept a request for legal aid in the Russian language, it will not entail any additional costs. Consequently, neither does it have any connection to the state budget. How can anyone be sure that this has anything to do with the state budget before the bill gets here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U42	Well, I can't agree with you here in procedural terms. The first reading of the bill has already been done, it is a second reading. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U43	Thank you, Mr Eiki, Mr President. I do not agree with the comment that some here want to adopt the state budget and others like something else. On the contrary, I think that the removal of this particular draft from the agenda and the abandonment of specific, highly questionable tax increases will contribute to the adoption of the state budget. Why am I saying this? Because there is a law in force in Estonia that says that all tax increases, as well as other tax changes that have a major impact on people's lives, must be adopted at least six months before they become effective. In this case, we are probably talking not even about six days, but about a few days before we enter into force. It's obviously against the law. I believe that it is understandable why the opposition very clearly protests against such a procedure. My procedural question is this: do there still exist good practices in the Riigikogu, according to which the drafts will be processed, or have we finally abandoned them? If we've given up, it's just good to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U44	There are still good practices in the Riigikogu. So far, none of them have been corrupted. They've behaved exactly as they have done so far. Drafts shall be placed on the agenda by decision of the Commission, no one else shall be able to state whether the draft is ready to be discussed in plenary. Whether or not the second reading is closed is a Commission decision. Whether or not to put the draft at third reading is a Commission decision. Nobody else but the committees can have information on this. A situation where the committees are making further changes to the drafts they have put on the agenda for the next working week earlier will arise in substance in each working week. The difference is one bill is bulky, the other one isn't. The law on the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu does not distinguish between drafts according to their size. The governing board of the Riigikogu can place them on the agenda only by decision of the committee. The plenary of the Riigikogu has the right to protest on the agenda. If anyone has the opposite proposal not to leave items on the agenda, the Bureau cannot withdraw them. In this case, you can show your views on the agenda as a whole. That was briefly all, I don't think there's any more procedural details. However, three members of the Riigikogu still want to ask a procedural question. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U45	Thank you, good Chairman. Last week you said something other than today. Today you said that no good practices have been broken. I would say that last week we violated the good practice confirmed by the Riigikogu Board itself. This good practice guide says that the commission decides to put the draft on the agenda for the second reading of the working week of the Riigikogu after examining all amendments and taking decisions on them. Last week, too, we were in a very specific situation where these decisions did not exist. Good practice was broken. Today we hear again that it is being violated. I do not think it is appropriate to state that good practices and practices are not violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U46	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U47	Thank you. Unfortunately, I too have to say that in any case, good practice is being violated. In addition, the law is violated because the deadline for notification of tax changes is stated in the law. But I have a procedural request for clarification. You said that it was only the Commission's decision that counts, the Commission will say when to put something on the agenda. But now, as an inexperienced board member, I am forced to ask exactly what we did today as a board. When the Commission asked us for more time to submit the materials to the House tomorrow evening after the end of the working day or at six o'clock, as the Bureau, we had the opportunity to refuse it and say that this is not in line with good practice. Unfortunately, that was not the case. I see that there is, in fact, a role for the board. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U48	In the case of Draft 344, the lead committee certainly had a compelling reason why it proposed that they bring the amendments here later. I am sure that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss them until this week. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U49	I mean, you didn't decide if there was good practice or bad practice. I just have a jealous personal question. You go to the board together. What are you doing in there? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U50	Personal questions I will answer personally to Igor Gräzini. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made this proposal today was because the new members of the Commission would have the opportunity to take up their work on their new committees as soon as possible and so that there would not be situations such as those that occurred in the Chamber last week or the same situation as was the case today. That is why this proposal has been proposed, and I believe that it serves the right purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U52	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a member of the government, I often heard such a statement that the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp of the government. Right now, I'm a little confused. It seems that the rubber stamp is not in the government's hands, but even a double rubber stamp is in this very house. Is it going to be like this when it comes to dealing with laws and bringing them into the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U54	Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Urmas Kruuse! If you are familiar with the Home and Working Procedures Act, you will not find a word like a rubber stamp. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the 11th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu, together with the added 12th item on Wednesday. Please take a stand and vote. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the agenda, 37 against and no abstentions. The working week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U55	Next is the inquiry submitted by Aivar Sõerdi, Keit Pentus-Rosimitus and Urve Tiidus, members of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the heirs, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U56	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. On 14 November, the request for information was triggered by the publication of the European Commission's autumn economic forecast on 9 November. This revealed that the European Commission estimates that Estonia is in a structural deficit of 0.2% of the gross domestic product in 2017 (0.2% of GDP). According to the report of the Ministry of Finance, which is also the basis for the current state budget of the Riigikogu for 2017, the budgetary position is 0.2% of GDP in surplus (+0.2% of GDP). The fiscal council at Eesti Pank, presenting its assessments of the structural balance of the next year's budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, also came to a different conclusion from the Ministry of Finance. The following questions are therefore addressed to the Minister. Firstly, what is the difference between the European Commission's and the Ministry of Finance's estimates of structural balance? Is the reason for the different methodology used in the assessment, the different assessment of one-off effects/baseline data and assumptions or anything else? We also ask that the current law obliges the state budget to be drawn up at least in structural balance, based on the forecast of the Ministry of Finance. Could different assessments by the European Commission and the Fiscal Council also lead to changes in the estimates made by the Ministry of Finance? Finally, if the Ministry of Finance agrees with the assessments made by the Budget Council and the European Commission, what state budget expenditure does the Minister recommend to reduce in order to improve the structural position of the state budget for next year during the Riigikogu procedure? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U57	Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I respond to an inquiry, which is numbered 280, about which the members of the Riigikogu have asked three questions. First, I'll read the question and then I'll answer it. The first question: 'What is the difference between the European Commission's and the Ministry of Finance's estimates of structural balance due to the different methodology used in the evaluation, the different assessment of one-off effects or the underlying data and assumptions or something else? ' There are three reasons behind the difference in the assessment of Estonia's structural position. First, the Ministry of Finance assessed the cyclical situation of the 2017 economy, i.e. the output gap, more negative. According to the Ministry of Finance, the output gap is 1% of potential GDP, but the European Commission estimates it to be slightly lower, at 0.4% of potential GDP. We use a common methodology, but our forecast as input provides a slightly larger negative output gap. Secondly, the European Commission does not take into account the one-off factors that we have included in the assessment of the structural position. These are one-off factors, such as second pillar payments and merger grants, in total, 0.4% of GDP. Third, the forecast for nominal budget deficits differs from 0.6% of GDP according to the 2017 state budget, but according to the Commission's forecast 0.4% of GDP. The small difference is mainly due to the difference in cost forecasts. The second question: 'The current law obliges the state budget to be drawn up at least in structural balance, on the basis of a forecast by the Ministry of Finance. Could the different assessments of the European Commission and the Fiscal Council also lead to changes in the assessments made by the Ministry of Finance? ' The estimates of the output gap by the European Commission and the Ministry of Finance have converged over time and a similar evaluation methodology is now being used. However, the estimates remain different, inter alia because forecasts are drawn up at different times. There is nothing unusual about the fact that the various institutions have a slightly different interpretation of the current state of our economy. Given the conflicting economic indicators, it is natural that, for example, low economic growth, coupled with modest price increases, indicates a lower level of GDP in potential, while lack of work and rapid wage growth indicate overheating of the economy. Estimates of Estonia's output gap for 2017 range from 1.6% of GDP according to OECD estimates up to 0.1% of GDP according to IMF estimates. Eesti Pank's estimate of the output gap of 0.3% of GDP is close to that of the European Commission, the Ministry of Finance's estimate of the output gap of 1.1% of GDP is in the middle of different estimates. The Ministry is renewing its assessment in the preparation of the new economic forecast for the spring, and we do not see any reason at this stage to change the assessment. Question 3: 'If the Ministry of Finance agrees with the assessments of the Fiscal Council and the European Commission, what state budget costs do you propose to reduce in order to improve the structural position of the state budget during the procedure of the Riigikogu? ' The draft state budget for 2017 has been prepared in accordance with the balance rule of the State Budget Act, i.e. at least in structural balance. Estonia's budgetary plan has also been approved by the European Commission. The assessment of Estonia's draft budgetary plan for 2017 published by the European Commission on 16 November 2016 concludes that it complies with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance does not see the need to improve the structural balance next year. The changes introduced by the new coalition agreement will also not change the budgetary position for the following year, the expenditure planned and the revenue reductions will be fully covered by additional revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U59	Minister, there are questions for you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As for your answer to three questions, until the last sentence, everything was understandable. In the last sentence, I would dare doubt. But I didn't want to ask about it, but I wanted to praise the government. Namely, today's news from your Facebook says you want to postpone the car tax. I'm sure it's the right thing to do. The car tax, as you even admit, was intended to be introduced without thought and disregarding all the ways involved. But, oh surprise, in the same way, you want to raise more social tax, set the tax rate, lose the most important part of the joint declarations, tax sweets, hops, banks and everything else, and do it in exactly the same way without thought and haste. Is there any hope that glory will hit you on other subjects, or is it just car-tax-centred?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U61	Thank you. I like to be constructive and commended. I think that this government union really deserves proper praise when looking at the measures that the new government union will take in the near future and for which it is really intended not only for the Estonian people, but also for how to increase Estonia's competitiveness. We note that decisions in the near future, not only for 2017 but also for 2018 and beyond, will pay attention to reducing labour taxes and not only to reducing the tax burden on people with low but also medium pay. I think that the situation of raising the amount of wages from which the state does not take any percentage of income tax to EUR 500 is remarkable. It is no longer a ten-euro movement, as we have done in the past. I really thank you for your efforts: the action that the Government Union has taken will finally solve a situation where, in the context of economic growth, we have not achieved what we would like, especially given that our wages have increased faster than the economy. So we are working to ensure that possible changes, which will have an impact in 2017, can be made in the near future. Indeed, as you yourself rightly mentioned, the changes that will have an impact from 2018 and beyond will be discussed with all parties in the same way as in the current procedure. Why, for example, are we pushing the future discussion of a specific car registration fee? Because there are still good proposals that will help to achieve the best result. If you have any good ideas that give us an indication, bring them to the table, don't be shy!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U62	Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When the forecast of the Ministry of Finance came at the end of September, it was promised that a structural balance would be ensured and that the tax burden would be on a declining trend. Now the government has changed and come up with a lot of new ideas. Please tell me, is the tax burden of a declining trend still valid? Do you really consider withdrawing soda, bank and similar taxes from this ugly bunch after car tax? Is this what you are planning, and what direction is our tax burden now starting to move towards all these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U64	Thank you. You know, good questioner, I'm a little sorry. I am sorry in the sense that, although there should be an opportunity and a willingness to really delve more into the drafts when you are in opposition, it seems to me, on your question, that you have still not read the draft at all. If you're talking about maybe it's possible to take out the coalition, how you said, soda and bank taxes, then I'm telling you, good questioner, they're not in this package. Honestly, they're not there! Read the bill! It really isn't! There's no way to take out anything that's not inside. So it's hard for me to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U65	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U66	Thank you. As far as the content is concerned, these taxes are already included in the cost table of your coalition agreement, so you should not underestimate it. In addition, all car tax options, as well as all their pros and cons, were known ten years ago. If you discovered it now, in the last week, are you really fit for your job? But my question would actually be this. Your poetic expression that you could get rid of is how things come to your table. Such use of words is a bureaucrat's breed. Where do these things come from when you discover within a few days that something has come from somewhere and there is already something in the Riigikogu? And then you come and send a letter that hops, I now got a hand in front of me, I got suggestions. How do these things work in your finances right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U67	Thank you. Every second sentence of yours, of course, meant labelling, in the sense that you've made some kind of assessment. But, of course, you have this right completely, no one can prevent you from putting your own label on one or the other. But if you ask me how the debate is going to take place, I'll say, a good questioner, that this is about dealing with different parties, all over the period. The leaders of a lot of organisations say that, to be quite honest, there were years when they didn't even go to the Ministry of Finance. I've talked about this before. It's not that important, but if you've already asked me about it, I'll tell you what's going on. I think that the entrepreneurs that should be spoken to are not 4% in Estonian society, but 90% of the tax revenue is brought into the state budget. That's the big difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U68	Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U69	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, The budget balance is a value in itself, and it has been tried to hold on to previous governments. There is no balancing rule in the Constitution, but it exists in the Budget Act. That is why I would like to ask what our budget for next year is in essence in its state. You gave a formal answer that one of the assessments says the same thing, and the other ones say it differently. But I want to know, and I think the Riigikogu also wants to know whether we are in a structural deficit with a budget, as the Budget Council says, who has made a statement on this on 29 September. According to them, it is possible that this and the next year's state budget will fall into a structural deficit, as the Ministry of Finance may have misjudged the cyclical state of the economy in its economic forecast. Since you value it the same way, but the European Commission and the Fiscal Council in a different way, I ask you this: where is the European Commission and the Fiscal Council wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U70	Thank you. Easy, easy, easy! I'll tell you the way things are. Indeed, according to the basic law of the state budget, the structural balance of the general government must be at least balanced according to the Ministry of Finance's economic forecast. The budget that came to the Riigikogu in the autumn is not only balanced, it is in a surplus of 0.2%. This position we have maintained throughout this whole process, and I understand that Parliament has also not made any such changes that could twist and twist this process. I mean, we are still meeting the goal that we have already set ourselves in the spring process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U71	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every minister of the Republic of Estonia who thinks of an Estonian citizen is certainly commendable and only possible. But it now seems that the most thought is given to the Latvian government, who is panicking for the opportunity to bypass the Estonian economy. This means that everything we have done for the balance and economic development of the state budget is ready to change course so that the Latvians are able to pass. How do you view such assurance in a balance between benefits and costs when there are some changes to the news every day? We'll take the car tax. They say it's gonna change or we're gonna take a look at it. Can you confirm today that it will disappear? Or is it a completely different source of income, and is nothing really going to change for the consumer?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U73	Thank you. On your question, quite rightly, there were quite a number of issues in the introduction. I'm trying to reflect them. As regards so-called potential trade, such as border trade with our neighbours Finland and Latvia, but also with other countries, such as Denmark and Germany, where there are different rates of excise duty, a number of factors are, of course, taken into account. There are three important components for alcohol. First, border trade. The second and most important thing is definitely what happens to the health of the public. Third, the secret market. All of them shall be taken into account when one or other change is made. If you look at the forecasts that are currently taken as a basis, they are rather conservative • Moving to the expected extent, and there is even reason to think about whether expectations can be set up upwards. Of course, all nuances are taken into account, they have been and will be done in the future. As I have said before, I believe that no political force, regardless of who is currently in government, should be involved in putting together forecasts. Let's keep it for professionals. If you have specific questions about one forecast or another, the forecasters are, of course, always prepared to show the assumptions on which they are based. It should certainly not be for politicians to influence one or another forecast in any direction, and I think it has never been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U74	Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U75	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. My question also concerns the budgetary balance. Last week, you announced to the public that a loan of EUR 400 million had been agreed. The loan has quite specific conditions, which could be the co-financing of European money for infrastructure investments. If we look at these conditions, it is quite clear that this is the co-financing of the Estonian state for Rail Baltic. My first question is: can you confirm that this money is primarily intended for Rail Baltic? Secondly, what will this amount do in the coming years with our budget and its balance? For example, how much is the annual cost of servicing our loan that we have to take into account? How much is our total loan going to grow?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U76	Thank you. I assure you, this loan is not intended to serve Rail Baltic. I understand that on 13 December, if I am not mistaken, this issue will also be here as an initiative by your party as an important national issue. This is a European Structural Fund co-financing project, similar to the 2007-2013 period, when Estonia introduced 550 million euros for co-financing. Currently, 600 million have been agreed, of which a EUR 200 million loan agreement has been signed in the past and 400 million have now been added. It is not Rail Baltic, it is Structural Fund projects. If you ask us what our share is, I say that we are now the country with the lowest loan burden in Europe, our loan is about 10% of GDP. About the same level in the near future. The next country should be Luxembourg, with a loan of 18%.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U77	Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U78	Thank you. Good minister! The opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was under discussion today in the Committee on Social Affairs. It was asked whether it would be reasonable to raise family allowances for a family of three children by 100 euros and for a family of seven children by 30 euros. The question remained, what are the sources of its lifting? A representative of the Ministry of Finance, who was present, was able to answer the question in such a way that if the Minister had signed the bill, he would therefore have a cover. Now, I'm going to question, in terms of accuracy, what's the cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U79	Thank you. I'd like to talk a little bit about content first, and then we'll get to the sources of cover. True, the government coalition has decided to forcefully increase support for a third child in the family. If you ask why to the third, this is where the Estonian state finds that the more we have third children in families, the more likely the number of our births exceeds the number of deaths. When we talk about expenditure and revenue, although there is a great deal of budget-based regulation in Estonia, i.e. there is not much opportunity to decide on the channelling of additional resources to one place or another, the money does not have indexing. In other words, it has not been decided that both or so much alcohol excise duty will go into family benefits or that so much income tax that the state will retain will go into the construction of roads. If you look at the overall picture, you will see the costs associated with one type of expenditure or another, the third child bonus measure for the current example. And the other way around, if you look at any additional revenue planned for 2017, the total amount will be exactly the same balance. This table is provided to all parties who have asked at all times. It was sent to the public as soon as the coalition agreement was negotiated. It sets out possible tax changes, as well as changes that are not directly related to taxes, but are either support measures or other measures. It can be said that agricultural payments will increase next year compared to previous years. No direct payments have been made for several years. The teachers' payroll fund, as we can see, will be allocated additional resources next year to meet the target of 120% of the Estonian average. So there are cost measures, and now you will also see additional revenue measures that will come in the coming years. The same discussion may be held on the possible increase in the excise duty on lean alcohol, etc. However, they are not linked, in the sense that it cannot be said that the increase in the excise duty on lean alcohol is directly linked to one or the other revenue measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U80	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U81	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! To get a clear answer from you, I'm going to ask you a multiple-choice question. What will happen to the tax burden in 2018, when the new government's amendments come into force? Does this a) rise, b) fall, or c) remain the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U82	Thank you. There are several different taxes, right? When we talk about labour taxes, their share will definitely fall. The focus on labour taxes will be so strong in the coming years that measures that increase the share of labour taxes will certainly be more than the decisions taken by the government to reduce labour taxes. But in addition, good questioner, I would like to point out that, in addition to tax policy decisions, tax collection will also affect the tax burden if we collect them better, then our tax burden will rise. One example is that one company's one-off dividend tax increased our tax burden by 0.5%. On the other hand, looking backwards, it can also be said that a poor collection of taxes could lower the tax burden, but that is certainly not our aim.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U83	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U84	Thank you! Mr. Sester! I must give you credit for the way in which you interfere with the European Commission's assessment of the budget presented by the previous government with what is being presented or shaped by the current government. In my opinion, these are two different things. But that's it. I would point out that a significant increase in the tax burden is expected as early as next year. Taxes are known to have both fiscal and behavioural effects. I assume that tax increases will have a pretty strong negative impact on economic processes and tax receipts will turn out to be worse than you have predicted. At the same time, you have foreseen expenses. What do you do when the deficit grows bigger than you planned? So you're resigning?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U85	Mrs. Lauri! I would say this to you: when you look at the state budget for next year, you will also see that the main changes are actually coming from 2018 and beyond. In next year's state budget, the financial impact of the changes will be around EUR 100 million. Compared to the current state budget of 9.5 billion, we are talking about a percentage change. There will be much more changes from 2018 and beyond. There is a reason why there are so few in 2017: we are already with the state budget at a stage where very many changes are no longer being made. The new government concluded its agreements in essence in a situation where the first and the second reading had already been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U86	Minister, thank you very much. No further questions for you right now. I'm opening negotiations. In accordance with the procedure for replying and negotiating enquiries, it is a privilege to speak to those who have submitted inquiries. Therefore, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, I have to say right away that we did not receive a substantive reply from the Minister to his question. When I asked what the differences in estimates were and what are the substantive reasons for the different assessments, we only received formal answers to this. Once again, I refer here to the assessment made by the Fiscal Council at the end of September. According to them, it is possible that this budget and next year's budget will fall into structural deficit, as the Ministry of Finance may have misjudged the cyclical state of the economy in its economic forecast. I do not dispute, of course, the forecast of the Ministry of Finance; there are competent people who use the source data that is currently available. But look, there's a big difference. When the Ministry of Finance made its forecasts, it made them on the basis of data from August and July, since the forecast was made public in the first week of September. The European Commission's forecast, as I said, was published on 9 November. This means that the European Commission certainly already had more accurate data on Estonia's production, capital and labour force. The more recent and recent the data, the more accurate the estimates are. When the Fiscal Council came to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to enlighten us on this issue, they carried out a structural balance assessment. They deliberately used the alternative method and their assessment leaned even more towards the Commission's assessment. In order to obtain as precise a result as possible, it is appropriate to use different methods. There is a big difference between a budget surplus of 0.2% of GDP or a deficit of 0.2% of GDP, as the European Commission says, and the Fiscal Council. That is why the Riigikogu would also need to know what the actual state of our state budget for next year is. Of course, the reality is blurred by the fact that we still do not know what the effects of tax changes to the so-called cluster bill are. The previous questioner asked about a possible increase in the tax burden for the following year. The Minister did not reply to this and instead began talking about labour taxes. But we have a question of an increase in the overall tax burden. We don't have any information. Today, too, when we in the Committee on Monetary Affairs voted on amendments to the so-called cluster bill No 302, which introduces major tax changes, the Minister only sent us impact analyses at the end of the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs when the amendments had already been voted in. So we do not know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the structural balance in the budget for next year. In my opinion, there is a risk that we are in a position of structural budget deficit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U88	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly not questioning the Ministry of Finance's expertise or any prognosis. I agree with the Minister of Finance on one thing, and he mentioned that he trusts the forecasts. But what he answered to the question of the fundamental question of what this budget balance is really showed that he is not very interested in it. The Minister of Finance should not only be able to explain in his sleep but also want to explain, but unfortunately we did not hear that. There was also a hint that opens up some of the work of the Minister of Finance. As a colleague, I have also noticed that his passion for macro-economics is rather random; it must be constantly encouraged. We must invite him to speak at a place where it is clear that it is financially wrong. But right now he spoke in the best bureaucrat language about things that appear on his desk, how there are ever new proposals and how in the old days it was not the case that there were new proposals. If you trust your experts and if you're a macro minister, and if you understand what the experts are saying, things don't really happen. They're not just gonna come on the table, so there's gonna be one thing tonight, another thing tomorrow, and then I'm gonna write down that, oh, how nice, I'm gonna find it and send it back. A specific example was the same car tax, that all car tax options, capacity, pollution, annual taxes, registration taxes, fees have been discussed. There's one at first, but then it turns out, oh, maybe another. In the end, it is said that no, we are still thinking, now there are still proposals. In fact, all the proposals have sounded before, everyone's influence is known. Again, the Minister of Finance should not only be able to sleep but also want to explain what is a plus or a minus. Indeed, we did not actually hear any impact analyses in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Poor experts from the Ministry of Finance are either looking for new hunters or feeling very uncomfortable because they don't listen. Some interest groups are being listened to, and new things are getting on the table again. Stakeholders need to be heard, but there are procedures to be followed and they do not replace expert judgements. What is happening now in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is very strange. And it's a shame to have members of their old team who aren't comfortable at all when they have to answer substantive questions, but they don't have any impact assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U90	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U91	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I wasn't taking the floor, but listening to the Minister of Finance's answers, I still wanted to say something. I just wanted to say that the Minister of Finance didn't answer the questions. He did not answer questions of inquiry, nor did he answer questions from the floor. Usually, you can find a couple of options for either not understanding the issues or not suggesting answering them. I hope this is not the first option, but it is the second. For some reason, the Minister of Finance does not want to answer very clear questions about the tax burden or what he will do if the budget deficit turns out to be significantly higher than expected. This shows, in my opinion, how to move to the state budget, how to treat the Riigikogu. I don't like that attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U92	Minister, would you like to take this opportunity to comment in the form of a statement? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is often said that beauty lies in the eyes of the viewer. You can say anything you want. If you don't like the answers, if you don't like them or if they're not right from the questioner's point of view, then the questioner can always say, "Sorry, I didn't understand something, the answers weren't what would have satisfied us, or they didn't answer at all." It's often such a big hit. They say these things and these things are bad or they and these things are about to come, especially when we talk about bad things. I have noticed, especially in the last few weeks, that stories are systematically being told, that there is an impression of things that are not really there. In the last few weeks or in the last few months, attempts have been made to create an impression that the company's income tax will immediately come. This was constantly discussed during the coalition negotiations. When the coalition agreement was signed, it did not come, unexpectedly, with corporate tax. Rather, we want to encourage even more Estonia's competitiveness among entrepreneurs and rather to encourage the tax rate on dividends payments, to reduce it to 14% instead of the current 20%. It was then said that immediately higher tax rates would also come to the individual. At the moment, we have reached an agreement in the coalition that we want to pay attention to the low and middle earners rather than to fines for those with higher tax rates who have higher incomes, whether it is linked to their better education, higher productivity or any other reason. The next issue was that labour taxes will rise in the coming years. Now it turns out it was also a balloon that just broke up. Labour taxes are falling, not rising. Right now, you're talking about a general tax burden. I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, the better we collect taxes, the more this will increase our tax burden. However, it seems that no matter what the answer is given, you are still dissatisfied with it. In this sense, it is very difficult and also harmful to hold a debate. I am, by nature, always an advocate of debate. I'd rather answer more than shorter. With my answers, I would rather give you the opportunity to ask new questions than leave me unanswered. I call on you, also for the future, that if there is a good constructive debate, then I am prepared to take part in it and I want to do it. If there's a tagging, desiccant talk going on, it's really hard to go along with it. But once again, by looking at the steps that the Government Union will take in the short term, I believe in this. I see that the plans of the near future are creating a situation where the Estonian economy should do better. Specific measures for the future are on the table and the competitiveness of Estonian entrepreneurship should improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U94	Thank you, Minister. I will conclude the negotiations and also the questioning process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-12_U95	Now all members of the Riigikogu and the chairmen of political groups and committees have the opportunity to register for appearances after a hammer hit. There's no call. Today's trial is over. Thank you for your work and I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 4:14 p.m.
