ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 6th working week Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U2	First of all, we have the honour and opportunity to hear the oath of office of member of the Supreme Court, Peter Roosma. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U4	Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U5	Good morning, Reverend Speaker, colleagues and judge. On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I present to the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi an inquiry into foreign students. This year's 18 February Postimees writes about extensive fraud in attempts to become a student of higher education in Estonia by persons from Africa and elsewhere in the Third World. It is also known that Estonia is committed to increasing the share of foreign students in our higher education institutions. We therefore ask how many foreign students are currently studying in Estonian higher education institutions, how many of them are from European Union countries and how many from third countries. What are the five main countries of origin for foreign students here? What is the cost of Estonian taxpayers for foreign students? What are three higher education institutions for the largest number of foreign students and how many foreign students study in these schools? What is the success of foreign students, and how many of them end up in nominal time? What are the main accommodation places for foreign students, how many of them live in dormitories and where do they live, for whom the university does not provide accommodation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U6	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Administrative reform was also addressed in response to late-night enquiries. When Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration, said that the draft law on administrative reform would come to the Riigikogu as early as March, the income base of local governments had been mentioned as a deficit. The Minister also said that on Thursday he would go to the government with his proposals on the revenue base, but we would come to the aid of the Central Party Group. We are re-initiating the draft amendment to § 5 of the Income Tax Act. We therefore want to increase the income tax rate from 1 January 2017 to 11.8%, from 1 January 2018 to 12% and from 1 January 2019 to 12,13%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U8	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U9	Good morning, Mr President, and good MPs. I have the honour of handing over to Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, an inquiry prepared by eight members of the Free Party Group on the spread of HIV in Estonia. The issue of HIV in Estonia has become a permanent and profound problem, all of which are aware, but serious steps have not been taken so far to decisively limit the epidemic. Nearly 10,000 cases of HIV and AIDS have been registered since 1988. In the new cases, Estonia is one of the first in the European Union, we have 23.5 per 100000 inhabitants. In 2013, 325 new cases were registered in Estonia, 157 in Finland. This means that we have an incidence of 8.5 times that of the northern neighbours compared to the population of the countries. This situation can only be called a massive epidemic. The final impetus of the inquiry was the appeal of the ambassadors of the three countries to the Estonian authorities in a disturbing letter in which they point to the growing HIV problem. In their unprecedented letter, they offered help in coordinating and enhancing anti-HIV activities. The question is, do we have an epidemic? The World Health Organisation's 2014 report on HIV/AIDS treatment and care in Estonia concluded that we do not have relevant indicators for the monitoring of HIV epidemics, that the available data are not analysed or taken into account for the priorities of the national HIV strategy in strategic decision-making. The basic questions are whether the state and society of Estonia must and can do more and, if so, what and what it costs. On this extremely serious issue, we have put six questions to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U10	Thank you. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U11	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I present an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, whose subject is the purpose of the origin and arrival of persons moving to Estonia. Last Thursday, 18 February including, the Minister of the Interior presented the report 'Principles of Estonian Security Policy until 2015'. In the report, the Minister confirmed that the Ministry of the Interior has an accurate overview of the people moving to Estonia each year, who have 5 000 To the extent that there are precise data, of which we are all very interested and what we would like to know, we will ask four questions. Firstly, how many people have come to live in Estonia every year since 2011? We want data on a year-by-year basis. Secondly, how many of these people are migrants back to Estonia and how many new immigrants from the European Union or from outside? Thirdly, for what purposes have new immigrants come to Estonia? And fourthly, what are their main countries of origin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U12	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U13	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I present an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. According to the Estonian press, the Kremlin propaganda channel Sputnik intends to open a news portal in Estonia in both Estonian and Russian this spring. Sputnik has excelled in spreading misinformation in other countries, acting as a tool for Russian special services information operations. On the other hand, the strategic communication advisor working for the government has indicated that it would help if the Estonian political opposition stopped criticising the foreign policy of the current government against propaganda from Russia. Instead of tackling hostile propaganda, national-conservative policies are being mutilated. We therefore ask the following questions: How does the government intend to respond to the potential hostilities of the propaganda channel Sputnik? What is the government's strategy for psychological protection against propaganda attacks from Russia? Does the government consider psychological protection to be a measure of tagging the Estonian national opposition and linking it to the Kremlin's policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four enquiries and one draft law. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 16. Before we go to today's agenda, there is one clarification. Under today's fourth item, the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws at first reading 171 will be presented on behalf of the leading committee by Jaanus Marrand, Member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U15	Let's go to today's agenda. The first is the third reading of Bill 152 of the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Yeah. Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and related amendments to other laws aims to incorporate into national law Directive 214/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on consumer credit agreements relating to residential immovable property. The amendments introduced by the Directive concern, in particular, housing loans. Taking housing loans is probably one of the most important financial decisions for most consumers, which most consumers make once or twice in their lives. Compared to other consumer credits, consumers commit themselves to a much higher financial obligation in the case of a mortgage for a much longer period of time and generally provide collateral for the housing purchased for the loan. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U17	Colleagues, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U18	These specificities and the specific risks associated with housing loans, in particular the possibility that consumers may lose their home if they fail to fulfil their obligations, have led to the need to establish a specific regulation protecting consumers for housing loans. In Estonia, with few exceptions to mortgage-backed housing loans, the general Law of Obligations Act has applied consumer credit regulation. It is largely based on the Consumer Credit Directive, the scope of which has so far been spontaneously extended to mortgage-backed consumer credit agreements in Estonia. Until now, no harmonised legislation is foreseen at EU level for housing loans. This, in turn, means that regulation is fragmented in different countries. The main objective of the Mortgage Credit Directive and this draft is therefore to harmonise the regulation of consumer credit agreements relating to residential immovable property in the European Union and to ensure the necessary consumer protection in this area. Regulation in this area at EU level is justified by the fact that many of the problems encountered during the financial crisis, including over-capacity lending, are not specific to individual Member States, but are similar in many countries. According to the draft, the lender is required to provide general information on the loan agreement relating to residential immovable property. The consumer must also be provided with more detailed pre-contractual information before the conclusion of the contract, so that he can take the decision to award the contract as carefully as possible and in the light of all the essential circumstances attached to the contract. The bill gives the borrower the right to withdraw from a mortgage-backed consumer credit agreement within seven days. So far, there was no such opportunity. Although this possibility of withdrawal slows down the civil turnover of the loan money no more than seven days after the conclusion of the contract, it is nevertheless practical from a consumer protection point of view. The draft also clarifies the current regulation on responsible lending. It is stipulated that a loan contract may only be concluded if the consumer is creditworthy. If the bank violates due diligence in assessing the consumer's creditworthiness, the contractual interest rate will automatically decrease to the statutory interest rate, which is currently 0.05%. Of course, this does not extend to cases where the consumer knowingly provided false information to the bank. In addition, the consumer will be able to take other appropriate remedies against the creditor, such as claims for damages. The Social Democrats support Bill 152. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U19	Thank you. There's no more calls. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 152 and we will go to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in this regard 152. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U20	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the draft law amending the Defence Union Act and the Defence Forces Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 153, and we are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Defence Union Act and the Defence Forces Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 153. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U21	The third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on identity documents initiated by members of the Riigikogu Andres Ammas, Henn Põlleaas, Jaak Aaviksoo, Kristjan Kõljala, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Tanel Talve. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Yeah. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U22	Honourable President! Honourable representatives of the people! I would like to say very simply: I am very pleased that my colleagues from the Special Committee on State Budget Control have initiated this draft. However, I would like to draw your attention to a small detail. Look at the number 55 of this bill and compare it with the number of the rest of the drafts that we are currently in the process. It must have taken about ten months for this little thing. But I am very pleased that, as a result of this process, the will of the representatives of the people in this Chamber will prevail, not the will of the lobbyists who print passports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U23	Thank you. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U24	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Consul General of the Republic of Estonia in St Petersburg, because he had the idea of drafting this draft. Thanks go to the special committee staff who put together the original text and the explanatory memorandum. Thank you to all members of the special committee who represent all the political groups of the Riigikogu. We have very few such drafts. I thank the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Riigikogu who tabled amendments. As a result, the text of the draft text was extended about five times. I could, of course, cancel my speech because of what I'm talking about here. But thanks are much more pleasant to say than hate speeches, although unfortunately, the others are still in the first place in this Chamber. Once again, thank you to all those who took part in this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U25	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to tell you very briefly that this is an example of how important decisions for Estonia can be taken in consensus. The draft has been initiated by representatives of all parties represented in this Chamber. And I have only one big request for you: let us have more consensus on all other issues that are important for Estonia so that we can decide serious matters without party squabbles! We are also pleased that the concrete draft has moved forward from the initiators thanks to the amendments tabled by my good colleague Mihkel Raud. In total, it became a very good thing. Good friends, let's hear it for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U27	Thank you. Kristjan Kõljalg from the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I saw that when all the other initiators take the floor, I'm gonna try the format. Indeed, this bill is a minor change in the way it is, but on the other hand, it is very important for many people who have a change of passport every five years or, in fact, even less than five years, a challenge. There are many people, Estonian citizens, who live outside Estonia and are forced to change their document relatively closely. So the problem of life itself finds a unanimous solution in this Chamber, and I am very pleased about that. Of course, I think we all support this excellent law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U29	Thank you. Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U30	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, As long as this is where the initiators of the bill went, I'm not going to tell you about the bill. I am talking about this as an excellent example of how coalition and opposition can actually cooperate. The initiators of the law are all from different political parties, but we agree. I call on the coalition to cooperate in the same way on all other drafts and to listen to the opposition's opinion on the drafts coming from the government. Cooperation will lead to further progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U31	Thank you. Since Jaak Aaviksood is probably not among the initiators,... However, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U32	Thank you. Since this is indeed a historic moment, Jaak Aaviksoo wanted to give a speech. Three minutes of intermission before the vote, please. We're gonna start looking for Jaak Aaviksood.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U33	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Break three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U34	The break taken by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance is over and we will proceed with the sitting. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 55 and we are going to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Act on Identity Documents initiated by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Henn Põljaas, Jaak Aaviksoo, Kristjan Kõljala, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Tanel Talve 55. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U35	Let's keep going. Today's fourth item is the first reading of the draft law 171 on the amendment of the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. The rapporteur is Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce you to the amendments to the State Property Act, which will simplify the governance of state assets and reduce bureaucracy and administrative burdens. A more detailed regime for the management of state assets facilitates the transfer of land to local governments and reduces the workload of public authorities. A similar bill was actually passed to the Riigikogu proceedings a year ago, but during the previous term we did not have time to complete it. Now, with some amendments, the draft is again before you. The draft amends the level of decision-making in a number of state-owned proceedings in order to give a greater role to state-owned property managers in future decision-making on state-owned assets. For example, the government's agreement to transfer real estate from one ministry to another is no longer required. However, the government remains in a position to decide on the use and take-up of immovable property with a maturity of more than 10 years, as well as on the disposal of immovable property in a decision-making manner. In addition, the burden of coordinating state-owned property managers will be reduced, i.e. the requirement to coordinate real estate decisions with the Ministry of Finance will be removed from the law. However, the Ministry of Finance will continue to coordinate decisions concerning participation in companies and foundations. The bill extends the circle of entitled persons to determine whether an immovable property is necessary. The possibility to submit an application is granted not only to local government entities, legal entities governed by public law, foundations and non-profit organisations established by the State, but also to foundations and non-profit organisations established by the State. The notification shall be made through the national real estate register. One of the major changes is the extension of the deadline for the payment of compensation to the State in the event of the transfer of property received from the State free of charge or the establishment of the building right. This concerns local authorities. Instead of three months, the deadline for the transfer is five years and even ten years for the establishment of the building right. This is a clear positive message to local authorities. The draft also supports entrepreneurship, as it will make it easier for businesses to apply for land to make important investments. Businesses can apply for business land for significant investments in decision-making procedures for remuneration corresponding to normal value. The normal value is, in other words, the market price. Applications for significant investments are processed by Enterprise Estonia, whose main objective is the development of the Estonian investment environment. More detailed criteria and procedures are regulated by the Government of the Republic Regulation. The points are prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the final decision is made by the Government. Business grounds for local government units will be able to apply for substantial investments free of charge and for other business 65% of normal value. These important investments are, in particular, industrial parks, which local authorities have expressed their wish to set up. Discussions during the preparation of the Administrative Reform Act have also seen the development of the business environment as one of the potential tasks of the local government in the future. So this is a sectoral change that we will hopefully implement even before the adoption of the administrative reform. The principles of state participation in state companies and foundations have also been improved. In order to manage the general government cash flow and debt more effectively, the principle that a national foundation may not grant loans, guarantee obligations of third parties, enter into savings contracts with credit or financial institutions, or place its money in financial assets, including securities, shall be added unless such a right arises under their statutes. The draft also amends the Land Register Act, Land Reform Act and the External Action Service Act. Under the Detention Book Act, it becomes mandatory for the state and the local government to secure the land units. The amendment to the Land Reform Act harmonises the payment periods for the compensation paid to the State by the local government as laid down in the State Assets Act and the Land Reform Act. The compensation paid to the State must be transferred to the State's revenue instead of to the Property Reform Reserve Fund. In summary, the adoption of the draft will make it easier and less time-consuming for local authorities to give land. The administrative burden and bureaucracy of the government will be reduced, opportunities for local authorities and businesses will expand. I would ask you to support the draft proposed by the government. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U37	Thank you. You have questions too. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U38	Thank you. Honourable waitress! It is very positive that municipalities are more easily receiving entrepreneurship from the state. But my question is that, if there is now a difference within one case, the business country will receive 65% of the price of the land and in the second case it will be quite free, i.e. it will be said that it is free if there is a significant investment, then it will be a huge difference. How, then, will this decision be made according to your understanding? When does it lean to 65% and when to zero?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U39	Thank you. Indeed, there are several possibilities. If there is any interest in the land, it must first be determined whether it is not already part of the state's active sales portfolio. If this is not the case, there are two options: the State will grant it to the municipality for 65% of the expropriation or, in the case of a major investment, free of charge. What are the criteria for a significant investment, which is set out in a subsequent government regulation. The criteria are developed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In the current context, this investment requires the export capacity of companies to invest is important, innovative and suitable for this environment, i.e. it is also environmentally friendly. Conditions are listed in the regulation, under which the applications submitted by EAS are screened, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications prepares a project for decision by the Government of the Republic if a positive decision is taken. Obviously, such an opportunity cannot be very massive, but it still needs to be created. We know of situations where large investors have expressed interest in specific properties to expand their production or bring it to Estonia. As long as there is no land, it is very difficult to invest. In the case of auctions, other problems arise, the process can be time-consuming; it can be speculators. There may also be cases where, in the case of a tailor-made solution, a specific investment should be made and a land decision should, of course, not be detrimental to the State, i.e. not below the market price, but a new option is nevertheless granted, with 65% of the value being borne by the State in the case of ordinary investments over a period of five or ten years. In short, more precise conditions for the adoption of the law will be developed by MKM and hopefully the criteria will be clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U40	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You also referred to this draft yesterday when you answered the question of administrative reform. I hope this is a positive initiative for municipalities. However, I would like clearer answers as to how this decision-making process will be more precisely simplified and which bureaucratic points will be excluded. If there is still a choice as to whether the transfer is at a price of 65% or quite free, then the question will inevitably arise as to how the risk of corruption is ruled out when making such decisions. What mechanisms are there to do this, whether they come from the MKM Regulation or from where?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U42	Thank you. As I have already explained, the regulation first lays down the specific conditions under which applications are processed by the EAS. If certain conditions are met, the investment is important, a certain number of jobs are created, etc., then the decision will be submitted to the Government of the Republic. We have all the decisions in public and transparent terms and pass the necessary procedures, so this should, in any case, rule out the risk of corruption. We do not want to create any hidden process, far from it. So MKM, EAS and final decision on the table of the Government of the Republic, either free of charge for local governments or in normal order. Of course, this requires a very high level of respect and trust from the state in local authorities so that this possibility is not abused, but a bilateral partnership, transparent and fair. I believe that local authorities should be more trusted. There have been many questionable practices so far. Since there is nothing in the Local Government Organisation Act about the development of the business environment, there are very few cases in practice where land is granted for the development of entrepreneurship. It's also a very clumsy procedure. It is easy for a sovereign to say that the country is holding the land, or to give any such answers that maybe we will sell ourselves someday or so. Local authorities do not have a direct legal obligation to carry out entrepreneurship, even though decisions have been taken over time. We would like the development of the business environment to be a positive boost, so we are open in this respect and trust local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U43	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You said that giving land to local authorities would be easier and faster. The parish elders and mayors are now listening carefully to our debate, so now make it clear in terms of simplicity and speed, both in terms of wood and red. What about now, and what about after 1 April if this law comes into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U45	Thank you. The law will probably not enter into force on 1 April because the procedure has taken longer. It now depends on how long the Committee on Economic Affairs and Parliament's plenary want to discuss it. As far as the procedure is concerned, one of the main or most frequently heard complaints from local government leaders is that the state does not give them land and that the land is a terrible complex and time-consuming process. Although, in itself, when you look at the sessions of the Government of the Republic, we have decision-making points where we hand over land, roads and other objects to the government every time. So there's actually a process going on, but we'd like it to be clearer and faster. I do not have a table of 'wood' and'red' to show you here at the moment, although it can certainly be visualised at second reading or at the Commission, if you are interested in it. It is clear, however, that we want to solve one problem on which the local government leaders have been waiting for clarification from the state for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U46	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U47	Good President! Good minister! The former law equated ships with ships with real estate. Does this legislative amendment also facilitate the disposal of ships, such as for voluntary rescuers? Now is there a greater distinction between ships and land in terms of real estate?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U48	Thank you. Interesting question. I can't give you that detailed answer right now. I'm not going to talk round, but I'm going to answer later in writing exactly how this affects ships.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U49	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, There is a question that we had as the essence in yesterday's debate. Does the amendment in principle also provide a simpler opportunity to transfer the land currently used by Tartu Agro to the municipality in the future, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U51	Thank you. Tartu Agro does not know the case and cannot comment on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U52	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I would now like to ask Jaanus Marrand, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the State Assets Act and related amendments to other laws to send 171 to first reading on 15 February. Mr Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration, Ms Kaie Karniol, Head of the Treasury Department and Mr Teet Kukk, were invited to the meeting of the Commission, who presented the content and objectives of the draft and gave explanations. The draft simplifies the governance of state assets and supports the development of entrepreneurship, reduces administrative burdens and reduces bureaucracy. According to the changes, local authorities will be able to apply for free land from the state in the future if significant investments are to be made in the development of entrepreneurship. In other situations, local authorities must pay 65% of the normal value of the land for five years when applying for a business land. Compared to the current law, changes make it easier to manage state assets, especially as regards the transfer of assets from one sovereign to another. Changes will reduce the workload and coordination circles of institutions. There was, of course, a debate at the Commission meeting, during which questions were put to both the Minister and the other participants. Examples of the need for local authorities to submit such applications were asked. It was said that local authorities had previously expressed a desire to develop entrepreneurship, but they had a lack of land. Several municipalities have raised this problem. Companies can also submit applications. EAS has a number of criteria and conditions to be met by the applications, so not every plan is approved. An explanation was also asked as to whether there could be a problem if the local government were to become self-employed. The answer was that it is certainly not the intention that the municipality necessarily has to engage in entrepreneurship, but it gives the municipality the opportunity to create a business environment. However, the terms and conditions of the Enterprise Estonia, which must be met by the applications, remain, i.e. the potential of the projects will be assessed and non-repayable applications will not be accepted. The question also arose as to whether, if a local government has leased out some of the plots of land to companies, for example in the business area, but the company is going bankrupt, the local government would have to pay the State further, but not for the unleased plots. It was asked to explain the logic of why land rented for business must be paid for to the state, but it did not feed for the land. The answer was that local authorities would have to pay 65% of the normal value of the land over a period of 10 years. The State would not be able to take all the risks, so the municipality itself must prepare a well-designed application and select competitive tenants. This is probably what they are trying to do, because they do not want to leave the land standing. It was asked whether public land auctions would end when land could be obtained in decision-making. It was replied that the State had an active sales portfolio and that on the basis of this it would continue to hold auctions. If the land is not in the sales portfolio, it is possible to apply for it in decision making, for example for the development of industrial areas. The following are the procedural decisions. First of all, it was found, of course, that the draft would be in this Chamber today at first reading (the decision was consensual, like everyone else), and it was also proposed to close the first reading and set the deadline of 9 March 2016 at 17.00. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U54	Thank you. You have questions too. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U55	Thank you. My question would be more to the Minister. I would like to know whether this has been discussed in the Commission. In particular, the amendment to the Land Reform Act is written as follows: 'The compensation paid to the State must be transferred to the state budget instead of to the Property Reform Reserve Fund. ' What does this have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U56	This time, we did not discuss it in the Commission. I don't know how to answer that. Maybe the Minister can be more specific later.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U57	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U58	Good manager! Good waitress! I ask you, as a rural man, as well as a person who knows the soul life of a local government, the same question I asked the Minister. What about making it easier and faster for local governments to give land after the law enters into force? Can you explain what it's like now, and how is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U59	To assess the current situation, the acquisition of land from the state for business purposes is quite complicated. We know those cases where municipalities have wanted land for years and years, but this has not succeeded. Also, any transfer of state assets has been quite strictly limited and organised. Any movement, such as the transfer of state assets from one holder to another, will pass through a meeting of the Government. Following the entry into force of the law, all these things will be simplified, many coordination circles etc. will be excluded. It is now clear, even at the same time, that the entire procedure is specific, how land can be obtained in the interests of entrepreneurship and local development. It wasn't exactly regulated before. Neither was there a politically clearly formulated will to give land. There's always an important will in politics. If there's will and it's written in the lawn, then it's going to be faster and easier. The Enterprise Estonia, which evaluates projects, is now also involved, and therefore, in the light of this law, the municipalities will clearly have a greater interest in getting involved. I know that before there were a lot of local government leaders who shook their shoulders and said, we have no connection with entrepreneurship nor any opportunities to shape such an environment. Now the law gives very clear possibilities. If there are good plans, it can become land. The pace is also beautifully stated here, as well as the incentives to obtain land. So I think this is a very positive draft, especially in terms of the development of entrepreneurship and regional opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U60	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, I support this idea, which is a positive step towards promoting entrepreneurship in rural areas. However, we all know that there is such a closed circle of companies not going to rural areas because there is not enough workforce, but there is no workforce because there are no entrepreneurs. Everything starts with people, especially perhaps younger people. The question is for you, as an experienced politician, who knows the Land Reform Act and know how the land reform worked years ago when the country promoted the acquisition of land for young families, also being a single subject. Would it be wise to seek the political will that you mentioned in order to actually get people into that rural area? I am thinking precisely of the same possibility for young families to buy or acquire land on more favourable regulated conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U62	Thank you. This is clearly a question that hardly anyone in this Chamber would say that young families could not come to the country. There have been projects of all kinds, one or two acres of land, and so on, that could attract people in the country. But Estonia is quite small and I think the most important thing is that people have something to do in the country. If people have jobs that suit them and their potential has been used locally, they will be there. At first, maybe they'll go from a distance, and later, when the opportunity opens up, they'll move in. So in that sense, I wouldn't see it so tragically. We can't artificially build opportunities for people to go anywhere. They still go where they have jobs and life is evolving. So the order is logical in this respect, first of all, the opportunities for business development and jobs, then people will come. Once again, when the political will to create benefits for young families arises and deepens, these opportunities can certainly be brought to the table during the procedure of the draft. So, if there is any interest, I would like good political consultations on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U63	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 171. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 171 amendments, including 9 March at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U64	Let's keep going. The fifth item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Nele Parresti as a member of the Supreme Court' 179 by Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court. I will briefly present the procedure. First, the presentation by Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, is up to 20 minutes and then the presentation by Nele Parrest, member of the Supreme Court, is up to 5 minutes. A single oral question may be submitted to each of the rapporteurs. Only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. We will also make a final vote, which is secret. But now please, President Kalle Laane of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Nele Parrest! Good guests! The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft decision on Monday 15 February 2016. In addition to the members of the committee, Priit Pikamäe, Chairman of the Supreme Court, and Nele Parrest, a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, were invited as guests. The President of the Supreme Court explained that he has submitted a draft decision to the Riigikogu proposing to appoint Nele Parrest as a member of the Supreme Court since 2 May 2016. The President of the Supreme Court noted that in October 2015, the Riigikogu decided to remove Tõnu Anton, the Supreme Court. On the basis of § 53 (2) of the Law on Courts, the President of the Supreme Court announced a public competition to find a new member of the Supreme Court, in which Nele Parrest, Deputy Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice, Tiina Pappel, Judge at the Tartu Circuit Court, Urmas Kukk, Attorney General, and Madis Ernits, Judge at the Tartu Circuit Court, were nominated. Pursuant to § 55 (4) of the Courts Act, the President of the Supreme Court heard the opinion of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court and the Advisory Board on the Administration of the Courts and decided to submit to the Riigikogu the nomination of the Deputy Chancellor-Advisor of Justice, Nele Parrest. The President of the Supreme Court pointed out that in favour of candidate Nele Parrest, he certainly has a very extensive knowledge of administrative law and, in addition, of constitutional supervision. In view of the current activities and work experience of Nele Parrest, the Chairman of the Supreme Court has come to the conclusion that he is the most suitable candidate for the post of member of the Supreme Court. The candidate for a member of the Supreme Court spoke about himself and his previous work experience. He graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu in 2001 and obtained a Master's degree there in 2005. He is currently studying in doctoral studies at the University of Tartu. After graduating from the university in 2001, he began working at the Ministry of Justice as an adviser to the Public Law Service of the Legislative Department and moved from there to the Office of the Chancellor of Justice in 2004, where he still works. The candidate for a member of the Supreme Court stated that he has held very different positions in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. He has been an advisor, deputy to the Chancellor of Justice and has led the departments. His main responsibility in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice has been the management of the Ombudsman's field, which is not very different from the work of a judge, where the case of a particular person must be resolved. The difference is that the Chancellor of Justice is not bound by such strict procedural rules and his scope of scrutiny is wider because, apart from legality, the Chancellor of Justice can also control compliance with good administrative practice. The candidate for a member of the Supreme Court added that in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, he has been responsible for checking closed institutions, which include police authorities, the detention centre, the psychiatric hospital as well as special welfare institutions and other institutions in the field of social welfare where persons may be detained against their will. He has also been in charge of the courts. The Chancellor of Justice is the only non-judicial institution entitled to initiate disciplinary proceedings against a judge. The resolution of these statements has been the main responsibility of the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court for a long time. In addition, as a representative of the Chancellor of Justice, he is a member of the Court Administration Advisory Board, i.e. he has a fairly good overview of the problems with the administration and administration of courts. The members of the committee heard the Chairman of the Supreme Court and the candidate of the Supreme Court and asked questions. Among other things, the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court was asked what he thought the number of members of the Supreme Court of Estonia should be, given that, for example, in the United States, which is a very large country, there are only nine members of the Supreme Court. The candidate for a member of the Supreme Court replied that the size of the highest court in the state depends in many respects on the functions of this court. The peculiarity of the Supreme Court is known to be that it is the highest court in certain areas, which is also the constitutional review court. This means that a great deal of competence is needed in all areas as well as in constitutional supervision. Therefore, the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court does not think that the Supreme Court is too large, rather there have been legal discussions about whether a separate constitutional court would be needed in Estonia. The candidate for a member of the Supreme Court noted that he personally does not see the urgent need for a constitutional court. The committee was also interested in the views of a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court concerning the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice, who was discussed in the Constitutional Committee, to bring the Aliens Act into line with the Constitution. Asked what the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court thinks of the hypothetical solution, according to which the Aliens Act does not provide a separate basis for obtaining a residence permit in order to settle with a registered partner, but, in the case of same-sex partners, another solution would be envisaged for obtaining a residence permit. The candidate for a member of the Supreme Court replied that this depends on how to formulate the relevant basis in law and whether it gives the same-sex partner the right to live in Estonia as a result of the fundamental right of the family. It was also asked whether, according to the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, the word 'family' in Estonian coincides with the word used in other languages of the European Union in the same context or whether the legal meaning of the word in question may be different in different countries. Nele Parrest replied that the legal meaning of the word 'family' depends on how the legislator has established it in simple law and on the legal implications. The second question is how the concept of a family should be embodied in the Constitution, which is a more abstract document. If you look at the current legal understanding of the European judicial area, in particular the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, it is more of a broader concept of family. In addition, it was asked whether a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court considered that the concept of a family must be very precisely defined in law. The candidate replied that she did not think so, but felt that the legislation should be as abstract as possible and that it should be possible to decorate and interpret time. Rather, it is important to avoid very narrow and detailed definitions. The openness of the standards makes it possible to find the fairest and most appropriate solutions. What was decided in the Commission? It was proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by today's 23 February 2016 to the final vote, to appoint Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee as rapporteur and, in accordance with § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, to propose to Nele Parrest, a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, to present a presentation before the Riigikogu for up to five minutes. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U66	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Nele Parrest, member of the Supreme Court of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U67	Honourable Riigikogu! It is a great honour to stand before you as a candidate for a judge of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court cannot have a so-called "programme of action', the judge must resolve complaints before him on the basis of the Constitution, the law and following the conscience. Therefore, I will briefly address just a few of today's issues concerning Estonia's state and administrative law. There are many challenges facing law, executive, legislator and also courts. Topics such as administrative-territorial reform, the effects of demography, the refugee crisis, the issue of state reform, are well-known, whether we need an administrative management law governing the administrative organisation. I would like to dwell on three more keywords. First of all, security. Both law, legislation and legal practice have so far been more concerned with the issue of the hidden collection of personal data in criminal proceedings, in short with surveillance activities in criminal proceedings. However, because of the changed security situation, the issue of hidden data processing is becoming increasingly important in administrative procedures, i.e. prior to criminal proceedings and outside criminal proceedings. For those involved in administrative law, both researchers and practitioners, this is an area which is not much known or known. Therefore, care must be taken to ensure that administrative treatment in Estonia can keep up to date, ensuring adequate protection of public order on the one hand and of fundamental rights on the other. The use of information technology tools is directly linked to the second issue. The administrative procedure is the channel through which a person interacts most often with the public authorities, whether it is applying for social security benefits, obtaining a driver's, construction or authorisation, or simply asking for information. There are, however, a number of fundamental changes that require balanced solutions. For example, the problem of giving an "automated administrative act" where a fair solution officer is replaced by a mere computer process. Or the question whether all Estonian people are prepared to submit any applications and applications to the institution electronically. Or that a prescription or refusal of support is sent to an e-mail address such as eesti.ee without his or her consent. Yes, Estonia's success story in using electronic channels deserves recognition. Nevertheless, I would ask whether we are already there to confirm that literacy is equivalent to computer proficiency. With the final word, I would point to people with disabilities. In my opinion, Estonia's accession to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has unearned little attention, namely what the consequences of joining the legal theory, legislation and legal practice are. In particular, the Convention imposes a number of positive obligations on the State and takes the view that public authority must adapt itself to the needs of persons with disabilities and not vice versa. Sounds great, but what does that really mean? Where is the right balance between the rights of persons with disabilities on the one hand and public expenditure on the other when looking at the Constitution and the Convention on the other? What methods must be used to find the right balance? For example, is it sufficient for a wheelchair user to ask for assistance from a staff member of the institution in order to receive an official's appointment, or should legislation require all institutions to be located on the first floor? These and many other issues that need to be resolved are before Estonian administrative law, administrative organisation and administrative courts. Working in the Supreme Court as a judge of state is the highest recognition for Estonian lawyers. This will provide an opportunity to make a decisive contribution in shaping legal practice and defending constitutional values. I am prepared to make my best contribution to this, if the honourable Parliament agrees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U68	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U69	Good manager and future judge of state! I am asking the same question I asked in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. More than 300 million people live in the United States, just over one million in Estonia. There are nine Supreme Court members in the United States, we have 19. Are the rights of the Estonian people much better protected than those of the Americans? We do not have a constitutional court either, and you said that this is not really necessary. Is this not necessary because the European Court of Human Rights exists and they are probably gossiping there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U70	Thank you for your question. The use of international practice to find solutions to Estonia's own affairs is undoubtedly always an issue that deserves to be considered. However, I would be extremely careful to take over the experiences and practices of other countries in the form of 'unchanged' Estonian circumstances. In order to assess whether the staff of an institution, an official body, a judicial body is sufficient or not, it is always necessary to look closely at what this particular institution, such as the court, is doing, which is within its competence, the workload, the number of applications, complaints and problems it has to resolve. Estonia's specific features are indeed that our highest court, the Supreme Court is the highest court in matters of substance, it concerns civil, administrative and criminal matters as well as misdemeanours, while at the same time fulfilling the role of the Constitutional Court, that is to say, the Constitutional Court. In my opinion, Estonia's choice that we have 19 judges of state is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U71	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U72	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, You spoke here about the protection of fundamental rights and, for example, about whether a wheelchair can or cannot get into the institution comfortably. This is undoubtedly a very important domestic issue, and the task of each society is to protect the weak, the weak and the most vulnerable. That is why I am asking your point of view. If you, as a future judge, have the question of whether we should protect these most or least unborn people, what is your opinion? Do you think abortion in the light of the Estonian Constitution, which says that everyone has the right to life, right or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U73	Thank you for your question. Abortion is a very complex issue because it involves different world views, different values, different concepts of law and morality. In my opinion, the legislator has now found a balance between these different interests, rights and values in Estonian law. In other words, abortion in Estonia is permitted and lawful under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U74	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U75	Thank you, manager. Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! I'm asking about the planned administrative reform. Do you think this could be in any way contrary to the Constitution? If this is in conflict, what is the contradiction? For me, for example, there is no contradiction when it is said that there must be 5 000 people or 3 000 people in the municipality, there is no difference in the substance of the difference when the state puts this figure in place, in my opinion there is no difference in law. Do you see any contradiction with the Constitution in this administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U76	Thank you. At this point, I'm probably as smart as you are. In other words, we are still dealing with a draft, with no precise picture of what the administrative reform will be like in practice. There is no precise overview of the tasks which the municipalities retain, what tasks are taken away, what financial contribution is to carry out these tasks. What is certainly a draft looking at the thought-provoking places, is the first time perspective. In other words, that the Riigikogu can adopt all the drafts in sufficient time and that they can be implemented in sufficient time without having to have local elections in a situation where there are still possible disputes about whether or not this is constitutional reform. That is definitely one aspect. The second aspect concerns the so-called draft implementing law, which gives us a more precise overview of what the current or perhaps new vision of what the functions of the municipality will be. So, unfortunately, I can't give you the final answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U77	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Judge of the Supreme Court! I also have a question about the weaker. When two men live together nicely and want to adopt. How do you now assess the protection of the rights and interests of the child in such an association, its protection against the background of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of the Child and the European Union documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U79	Thank you. In the case of adoption, the first, most important principle that must always be borne in mind is that an adult does not have the right to adopt but has the right to parenthood. In other words, children and their rights must always be put first, not the other way around. Whether the same-sex couple provide the child with enough security to ensure that the same-sex couple can provide the child with an adequate family, a full life, depends on these specific adults. On the surface of the principle, I do not mind that a same-sex couple can raise a child.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U80	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U81	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable candidate for a judge of state! You spoke about the fundamental rights of citizens and the need to protect them. This is certainly a lasting issue. My question, however, is this: are Odin's warriors, who are now in the process of initiating their movement, an own-initiative gang or a legitimate citizens' initiative? Does the Chief of the Defence League have the right to recommend that the members of the Defence League who joined their Facebook page step out of the organization?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U82	Thank you for your question. I admit that I am not very familiar with the world-view side of the whole Odin movement, with the legal side, so I would also refrain from taking a stand and would not use any keyword to describe them. Whether or not defence allies should be part of it is an ethical, moral issue in which the Defence League should definitely shape its internal position.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U83	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! In your speech, you referred to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and how it changes our legislation and practices, whether and how the rights of persons with disabilities are guaranteed and how to strike a balance between these things. Since you were quite specific, I too have a specific question on this subject. Article 33 obliges the State to set up an independent supervisory body. The Convention was already signed in 2007 and ratified in 2012, but the country has not yet been able to establish this body. Consideration has also been given to entrusting this task to the institution of the Chancellor of Justice. What is your opinion and assessment of the process of setting up this supervisory body, and where could it be ideally located?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U85	Thank you. Yes, the recent international trend is that, when a new human rights instrument is created, it is written into the fact that each Member State must designate, appoint or establish an organ to deal with a particular area in depth. For example, the Chancellor of Justice is currently dealing with the prevention of abuse in closed institutions. Indeed, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities provides in the same way that such a national instrument should exist. It is clear that Estonia is a small country and should, if possible, avoid creating any new bodies, because we simply have limited human resources, a limited number of experts in a particular area. Therefore, tasks in the field could rather be concentrated in a single body. What is the best choice and solution here is not to be analysed on the basis of a specific area and a specific situation. There are a variety of possible options here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U86	Good President! Dear Nele Parrest, My question is a little personal and comes from your friends, who are also my constituents. Due to your new job, you must start working in Tartu, while your husband is a renowned district judge in Tallinn. Do you move to Tartu and your husband will work in Tallinn or will your family live in Tallinn and you will work in Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U87	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U88	Thank you for your question. We are moving to Tartu and it is the husband who is going to drive, because it is not possible for a small child to have a mother travelling between Tallinn and Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U89	Peter Ernits, I'm sorry! According to the Home and Working Procedures Act, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask one question to each of the rapporteurs on this item. So I'm sorry, Peter Ernits! Let's keep going. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U90	Thank you. Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! Our constitution defines us as a democratic republic. One feature of democracy is free and transparent elections. Unfortunately, there are electoral procedures in Estonia that are not impartially observed in any way. In the case of e-elections, it can never be guaranteed that the person was not affected when he made the election decision, we do not know whether the person voted once, for example, did not collect other ID cards. Do you think that e-elections in democratic countries meet the general transparency and uniformity requirements for electoral procedures?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U91	Thank you for your question. Basically, then, from the so-called abstract point of view of the Constitution, I am certainly a pro-electronic voter, which does not mean that there can be no violations in a particular case, a particular vital example.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U92	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U93	Good colleague! The land change was studied for eight years. Twice the case was re-classified, the third time was essentially misqualified and the previous paragraph was applied. For seven years, Enimex was investigated. Do you find that our procedural deadlines, as the law says, are reasonable? Or is the problem just that our DA's office hasn't worked out yet, let's say, a certain pattern of work that needs to be raised? I think one important method of increasing work habits would be to restore procedural deadlines. What's your position? Eight years of pranking indictment, six months of parole, that's not proportionate, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U94	Thank you. In the case of land exchange, the Supreme Court has formed its position, so I would refrain from commenting on this particular case. The issue of setting time limits in the law of procedures is certainly worth considering, but it depends very much on the procedural procedure for which a time limit should be set. Inevitably, you must always ask what happens if this deadline is not met. Is it sanctioned and should it be sanctioned? Let me give you an abstract example. Let us say, for example, that in law we impose a requirement that the procedure at first instance of an administrative court may last for two months. When two months pass, what happens then? In other words, it is not possible, in principle, to sanction here; the result is, rather, to underestimate justice. Which does not mean, however, that in some areas, some procedural procedures should not consider setting time limits. This depends very much on the specific detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U95	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U96	Thank you. A candidate for an honorable judge of state! I have a very short question and I would like a specific answer, yes or no. Do you think 5.2% of the territory of the Republic of Estonia is occupied or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U97	Thank you. However, I will answer with a few sentences. Your question essentially goes back to the question of what the legal fact is. We know where the border runs after the Tartu Peace Treaty, we know where the control line is now running, and we know where the border agreement between Estonia and Russia will start in the future, if the border agreement between Estonia and Russia gets its final, valid legal force, this border will run. We also know that, since the early 1990s or mid-1990s, the Estonian state has accepted that the areas that lie on the other side of the control line are in Russia's hands, that the Estonian state has not established itself in these areas. In short, then, the question is what meaning, in legal terms, should be given that the Estonian state has accepted that these areas are in Russia's hands. If this question should ever come before the Supreme Court, I suppose if Parliament gives me this opportunity, it would be possible, among other things, to have a say in resolving it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U98	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U99	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good answer to questions, candidate for a member of the Supreme Court! The answer to the previous question was that the facts we know were stated. I would like to remind you that the border agreement is still not valid and that we are based on a non-existent border agreement. Consequently, the areas remaining on that side of the control line are therefore occupied. However, I come back to the presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where he stressed that when you answered the questions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, you felt it was very important to leave the definition of the family 'absolute' so that it could be adapted to the circumstances as times changed. Here's the question. Is it right that a judge who has not received a mandate from the people amends or redesigns the definition of the family, or does Parliament still formulate the definition of the family, which has obtained a mandate from the voters to defend their interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U100	The question we discussed in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu was how to make sense of family and family fundamental rights at the constitutional level. I have indeed stated that this is an abstract concept which must be furnished on the basis of the modern legal space of Estonia and Europe. This does not rule out, of course, that the legislator decides in a specific area, in a particular law to define the concept of family in one way or another more narrowly. This is certainly possible, but then we must always look at the legal implications and whether this legislative formulation of the concept of family in some area, together with specific legal implications, is compatible with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U101	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U102	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me at times that we are listening to a politician here, not a candidate for a judge of state. But I'm going to the question. As you have confirmed, the Supreme Court is the highest court in Estonia and our highest law is the Constitution. That's right. According to the referendum on accession to the European Union, Estonia may belong to the European Union, provided that the fundamental principles of the Estonian Constitution are not violated. Upon joining the ESM, the Supreme Court stated that the mandate to surrender the power acquired by the referendum to the European Union has been exhausted. How do you assess, from a constitutional point of view, the compulsory and primary nature of decisions taken by the European Court of Justice and the European Commission in relation to our laws, including the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U103	Thank you. I do not currently have a Supreme Court ruling ahead of ESM, which is why I cannot quote it directly. The Supreme Court, as I understood this decision, stated that when the Estonian people approved the Constitutional Amendment Act in the referendum, he gave the bill that we are ready to belong to the European Union and also to the changing European Union. However, the Supreme Court also stated that there is a border somewhere where people should be asked again whether membership of the European Union is still appropriate and appropriate for the Estonian people. In other words, in a situation where a changing European acquis conflicts with our constitution, people should be asked for a new mandate. What comes at this point in time is abstractly very difficult to say. Certainly when the Treaties are being amended, serious consideration and analysis should be given to whether a specific amendment to the Treaties continues to be compatible with the Constitution or not. But, as I said, abstractly, it is very difficult to be more specific here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U104	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U105	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Member of the Supreme Court! You've been working at the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice for a long time, and here's what I'm asking you about. Maybe you've heard that Kohtla-Järve had a depressing situation where decent people who had paid their heating bills got caught in the cold. When the temperature outside was 21 degrees Fahrenheit [21 ° C], the temperature of the apartment was 4 °C. Do you think it is right that a person who has paid his bills properly, who does not have a debt, gets into such a situation because his neighbor is not a decent person and does not consider that his debt results in a burden on people next to him that they cannot bear? They can't pay off their neighbor's debts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U106	Thank you for your question. Indeed, this issue was also addressed to the Chancellor of Justice and this week, or was it last week, the Chancellor of Justice gave an answer. It is somewhat regrettable that this issue may have been reflected slightly in the press, but this response was certainly consistent with my understanding of whether and what and how this should be legally assessed and resolved. This problem essentially raises the question of whose "burden or risk" it is that such a situation arises. This is an extremely complex legal issue, where, on the one hand, it is necessary to look at the possibilities for a person to avoid this situation, the opportunities for a cooperative, a member of a cooperative, a local government to make sure that such a situation does not arise at all. On the other hand, it is also understandable that heating debts and the resulting risk cannot be borne solely by the heating company. If it is a small place and a small company that has to provide district heating and most people do not pay for the heat, then the result is simply the bankruptcy of the district heating company and it is all out of heat. In other words, leaving this risk as a 'business risk' to a pure operator is also not an appropriate solution. To sum up, yes, this situation is extremely regrettable, it needs solutions, but the solutions are not simple. The solution cannot simply be that an entrepreneur has to heat, regardless of whether he is paid or not. There is certainly a duty of defence for public authorities here, but what exactly solutions and measures should be, it requires a joint analysis of a great many aspects.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U107	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Nele Parrest! You have excellent work experience from the Office of the Chancellor of Justice and now you are going to Tartu. Is and how much are you willing to engage in the academic sphere as well? Are you ready to do a faculty job or are you prone to research? What are your previous contacts with the academic sphere? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U109	Thank you. As has already been said, I am currently continuing to study in doctoral studies. I have been teaching students at the University of Tartu for years, and with this I wish and want to continue. The post-growth of Estonian administrative law lawyers is an issue that I have very much attached to my heart. I'm sure I'd like to do my part here to make things better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U110	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U111	Thank you, good manager. Honourable candidate! Do you agree with the statement that even more than the quality of decisions, the credibility of the judiciary as a whole is affected by the credibility of the judges themselves? Regrettably, over the last few decades there have been many colourful cases, the most famous of which has been the case of Ardi Šuvalov and Ain Truu. Of course, they also affect the assessment of the credibility of our court from outside Estonia. Is there any medicine here that can fix this thing? Secondly, do you think that the judge should be subject to exactly the same strict requirements and should be treated in the same way as a common citizen or a businessman who has taken bribes to the same extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U112	Thank you. Everyone is equal before the law, so are the judges. That would be the answer to the other side of your question. But, of course, I agree that judges are subject to high ethical standards. The judges also have their own code of ethics, which obliges the judge to be dignified not only during work but also at any other time and to feel that responsibility, the role that a judge's office brings to a person as a career for life. Do we even have problems with the ethic of the judge right now, and should anything be improved here? I admit frankly, I do not sense that at this time there would be some burning problem that would ask how the corps of judges works. I rather believe in the Estonian judicial system and the Estonian judges.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U113	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! First of all, I would very much like to acknowledge your work both at the Office of the Chancellor of Justice and as a lecturer. I know several students who will listen to your lectures. My question concerns a living, I would just like to hear your opinion. According to current legislation, maintenance is linked to a minimum wage, such as income support, automatically 50% of the minimum wage is maintenance if you do not go to court. And judges also very often base their maintenance on 50%. At the same time, pensions for people with special needs are often very low and there will be no different solutions. How do you think it would be time, or at least the thought of discussing the subject of maintenance and perhaps a few more rates, whether or not an indicative kindergarten place fee, decoupled from the increase in the minimum wage or from the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U115	Thank you for your question. Of course, any rates must always be critically viewed, which is appropriate and appropriate in today's Estonian social environment. In the case of maintenance, it is always a nuance, for example, in the payment of a child's livelihood, that this particular adult may have a new family, new children, and their situation must not go any further. I hope and believe that the judges will find the right balance between the different rights of people in their work. Untie the minimum wage? Yes, it is certainly worth considering, but, regrettably, I must once again be general and say that a great deal depends on the specific situation and support, the subject, the amount of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U116	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U117	Thank you very much. Honourable Member of the Supreme Court! On one issue, which was presented in a somewhat indictible way, you have seen a little too many politicians in the current role of reply. There is probably quite a difference between Estonia and the United States, because it is well known that if one of the judges dies, the balance will change, i.e. it is known exactly who are the conservatives who are liberals. So it is not quite clear yet whether a cramped stay away from politics is the right thing to do. Once again, our political landscape may have more of a problem with those politicians who tend to be judges. My question, however, is: on what subject do you write a doctoral thesis?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U118	Thank you. The doctoral thesis is a very complicated one, but I'm trying to convert it from legal to ordinary language. In principle, my doctoral thesis concerns a situation where, for example, the local government has concluded a parking supervision contract with the G4S, under which the private sector performs a public function. It is under review whether and how the state or local government supervises a private individual, which legal relationships arise, whether and in what form such supervision is carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U119	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Judge of the Supreme Court! May I ask what your view of the world is? Do you consider yourself a liberal or a conservative?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U121	Thank you. The code of ethics of Estonian judges states that the judge should refrain from political speeches. Therefore, although I am not yet a judge, I am still hoping for Parliament's support, I would keep that to myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U122	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U123	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I will follow the line, and I will also follow what Mr Enn Fronta said about the American judges' worldview. As we understand it, the current candidate has a world view, but he's keeping it to himself. Not really. The reason we asked questions was to find out about the world view of the candidate. It is very sad that I have to say what I said the last time we confirmed the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court here: everything was the wrong answer. Let's start with what upsets us the most. When it comes to fundamental constitutional rights and their protection, it is true that access to wheelchairs, parking tickets and the principle that everyone has the right to life, as well as not protecting them, are spoken of in the Constitution. Over the last 60 years, 1.5 million abortions have been performed in Estonia, which means that 1.5 million children have been killed before they were born. That doesn't interest our judge candidate. However, everyone is throwing themselves into amburasus when it comes to saving the lives of criminals, i.e. we have all progressive people against the death penalty. I think that, above all, we should protect the most vulnerable. As usual, we have just heard political twirling about the occupation. There is probably no point in asking about the peace of Tartu. The answer to the question about Odin's soldiers was very worrying, as the candidate for a judge took up the right to discuss what world view could or could not be banned. When we talk about the protection of fundamental constitutional rights, Estonia cannot be banned, nor can it have repressed world views. It's very, very worrying, if people allow themselves to have such hobbies at all. The concept of family. Who needs to decorate it? Of course, we understand that all judges would like as much discretion as possible when deciding everything. However, we do have the principle of separation of powers. The role of judges and lawyers is to monitor and enforce the law. It is up to the legislator to make the law as precise and clear as possible. It is not the duty of the legislator to leave the judges too much room for manoeuvre so that they can begin to formulate the law with content that they like. It was very sad to hear the answer to the question about the ESM or the relationship between the Estonian Constitution and the law of the European Union. This is particularly sad because we asked the same thing, exactly the same thing from the candidate for a judge when he came to us to introduce himself in the group. There we received the answer that he had not brought himself up to date with this case. It's sad he's coming to this hall, he knows we're asking the same thing, but he still hasn't brought himself up to speed with this particular case. What can we say to that? I have a request to the Chairman of our Supreme Court: please bring decent lawyers to the Riigikogu, not left-wing political activists! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U124	Thank you. Eiki Nestor, Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I'm very sorry to be so explicit, but I was born in 1953, I know and I can imagine, and I've also lived a life in which one of the political forces towards the judges, it was the most authentic Stalinism. And what you heard here was Stalinism in the Republic of Estonia today. The people in the Supreme Court understand justice. You and me, if we're democrats, we don't have the right to impose our worldview on them. They have it anyway. This attitude towards the appointment of judges of the Riigikogu is an insult to the Supreme Court. I object to this approach at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U126	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Igor Gräzin Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U127	Lawyers and volleyball players know that judges tend to make mistakes. There is even a classic Russian expression sudja na mõlo, which generally means that a person, including a judge, has the ability and the ability to err. There is a very, very, very large difference between us, in this case lawyers, prosecutors and ordinary people and judges, which we do not perceive. This difference becomes clear when the parties have been heard, the newspapers have been read, the process has been completed. And you know what happens after that? Then the silence arrives. The judge goes home tonight, pushes the TV out. The judge stands alone, and there is only one thing against him, a conscience. He doesn't have a chance to go anywhere or talk to anyone anymore. He can't pick up the phone. He can't say, "Hey, Ruth, what do you think about doing this faster or delaying that you know, that's a bullshit story, and I don't know. " It's just the two of them, a judge and a conscience. And he has nowhere to go, he can't resign. He has to make a decision. 'There is nothing worse and nothing worse,' said Oscar Wilde, 'as a sincere Christian and a judge, standing against each other with his horrible conscience. ' After all, we can think liberally and conservatively and, frankly, three quarters of these answers really did not fit anywhere. But, well, a person starts. Now, come from the office right here in front of our company, and I'll have my own legs shaking. Think for yourself, a stranger comes and needs to start answering everyone, it's not easy. The future of the judge currently appointed is not determined by what he said today, but by what he will decide. And it is not up to us, it is not up to the defendant, the accuser, or anyone else, but it is the relationship between him and his conscience. Conscience is not a legal category, it is a very human category. Dear Martin and Eiki, you said some terrible things. Oh, my God, you're angry brothers, you're scary to look at! Two equals. But in today's performance, I saw something that's crucial to me. I saw in him the mind, the thinking, and the warm heart. And what can I tell him? May both God and conscience be merciful to today's candidate on his future path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U128	There's no more calls. Thanks, everybody! The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 179. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the vote is secret. I vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Nele Parrest as a Member of the Supreme Court' 179 submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 9 against and 2 abstentions. The decision of the Riigikogu has been adopted. Thank you and wish Nele Parrest every success in the new job.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U129	We will move on to today's sixth item, the second reading of the draft law 126 on ratification of the International Labour Convention (No 188) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please report to the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Draft Law 126 on ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention on fishing work was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 November 2015. The first reading of the draft was also held on 20 January. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 3 February 2016. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 16 February. No amendments were initiated by the Commission. In short, the bill. The general objective of the Convention is to ensure decent working conditions for fishermen. The Convention includes the rights of fishermen to accommodation, catering, safety and health protection, medical care and social security, as well as to maritime employment. Estonia has introduced the requirements of the Convention into national law in June 2014 by law on maritime work approved by the Riigikogu. The requirements of the Convention are also included in the Maritime Safety Act. There is therefore no need to amend Estonian laws and there are no additional costs of ratification. Nor will ratification entail new costs for shipowners, as the necessary costs to meet the requirements of the Convention have already been incurred. The competent authorities in Estonia are the Maritime Administration and Labour Inspectorate and the Health Board. The field of activity of the Maritime Administration is to carry out the management function and national supervision within the scope of the tasks provided for by law and European Union legislation, and to apply and to the extent provided for by law and European Union law national coercion to ensure safe and secure water traffic in the maritime areas of the Republic of Estonia and on navigable inland waterways. Ratification of the Convention will give the State the advantage of communicating with the maritime authorities of other port states. Ships flying the flag of Estonia will have a better chance of avoiding long-term inspections in foreign ports and, at the same time, Estonia will be able to check that ships flying the flag of a foreign country in its ports comply with the requirements of the Convention. Certainly, less time spent in foreign ports will also be beneficial for shipowners. That is all briefly about content. At its meeting on 16 February, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda for the sitting of the Riigikogu on 23 February. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. A majority of votes in favour is required for the adoption of the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U131	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 126. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 126 on the ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention on Fishing (No 188) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 43 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 126, 6 against and no abstentions. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) Act on the ratification of the Fisheries Labour Convention has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U132	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act 127 on the ratification of the International Labour Organisation Maritime Labour Convention initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Mr Heljo Pikhof, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Draft Act 127 on the ratification of the Maritime Labour Convention of the International Labour Organisation was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 November 2015. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 20 January and also on 20 January. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 3 February 2016. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading on 16 February. No amendments were initiated by the Commission. Finally, some procedural decisions. At its meeting on 16 February, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda for the sitting of the Riigikogu on 23 February. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. A majority of votes in favour is needed for the draft to be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U134	Any questions for the waitress? They're not coming. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments have been tabled and the Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 127. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 127 on the ratification of the International Labour Organisation Maritime Labour Convention initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 43 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 127, against 4 and no abstentions. The International Labour Organisation Act on the ratification of the Maritime Labour Convention has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U135	We will begin the second reading of Bill 164 of Amendment to the Law of the Bar Association initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Commission's rapporteur is Kristjan Kõljalg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U136	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft after the first reading and the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 18 February. A total of four amendments were tabled, three of which were tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp and one by the Commission itself. Kristel Voltenberg, Chancellor of the Estonian Bar Association, Marko Aavik, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Justice, and Gunnar Vaikmaa, Head of the Supervisory and Legal Service Department were present at our committee meeting. I am talking about a debate in the Commission. First, we discussed the proposals put forward by Külliki Hatter. The chancellor of the Bar Association explained that § 22 (3) gives the right to provide legal services under the professional title of an Estonian lawyer only to a member of the Estonian Bar Association and, as a new term, the term "Emeritadvoker" is introduced in the amendment. The Chancellor considered it important that, in the case of a legal person governed by public law, such as the Bar Association, the term 'emeritadvokaat' is laid down at the level of the law, as is the case with the concept of lawyer and advocate. The principle is that third parties also have a clear understanding of what an emeritadvocate can and cannot do. Commenting on the proposal to delete section 1 point 28 of the draft, according to this point, it is possible for the Bar Association's management to verify that the company's business name complies with the requirements laid down in § 12 of the Commercial Code and is not misleading to customers, the Chancellor of the Bar Association explained that the entry into force of this provision does not impose an excessive burden on the administration of the Bar Association, while providing consumers with the necessary protection against misleading names. At the meeting, it was also discussed which persons who had suspended their membership of the Bar Association could be exempted from the obligation of continuing training provided for in § 341 of the Act on Bar Associations. There was a consensus that those in public service could be freed from it. Kristel Voltenberg pointed out that according to the current regulation, the Board of Appeal, as well as the Board of Appeal, has the right to refer the person who suspended membership to an evaluation interview if there is any doubt as to its competence. The Chancellor confirmed that the Bar Association is well placed to guarantee the professional qualifications of its active members and that there is no need to narrow the circle of persons exempt from continuing training. In the end, the Commission reached the following decisions: The first amendment tabled by Mr Külliki's Hatter was decided not to take into account. This amendment was supported by 2 votes to 5 with 1 abstention. The second amendment tabled by Külliik's Hatter was rejected (1 in favour, 5 against, 2 abstentions). The third amendment, as well as the amendment tabled by Mr Küllik's Hatter, was rejected (2 in favour, 5 against, 1 abstention). The latter was the amendment of the Committee on Legal Affairs itself, which amends the title of § 824. The title of this section would be "the difference in the application of paragraph 35 (7) '. This amendment is asked to be fully taken into account, with 8 votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U137	There are questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I had a bit of a shadow on the discussion of the partnership law when I first read this bill. On the Riigikogu's website, however, it is clear that there is a strange point in processing the draft at the committee. On 26 January, the Commission took such decisions at once to send the draft to first reading, to close it, then to send it to second reading, to close the second reading, to send it to third reading and to put it to the final vote. Does the Committee on Legal Affairs now intend to simplify the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu in a broader way so that draft laws can be discussed at a single reading in this Chamber? In any case, this decision seems extremely bizarre to me and, in fact, ridiculous to our daily work. If one of the members of the Riigikogu had not tabled amendments and they would not have come from the Ministry by chance, would the Commission have done so in the meantime that this draft would not have been discussed at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U139	It has already been answered at first reading that if there are amendments that prevent reading the draft today, the Commission will take different procedural decisions. Therefore, in preparing for the second reading, we no longer discussed this issue in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U140	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U141	Good manager! Good waitress! I have somehow missed the process of handling this bill, but I ask how much is left of the original bill that was submitted to us and whether the Bar Association is satisfied with the draft as it stands.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U142	Thank you for your question. Basically, the bill is in the state it was presented. The title of one paragraph has been changed. The Attorney General confirmed that he was satisfied with the draft law, just as the representatives of the Ministry of Justice were at the meeting of the Commission, where the second reading was prepared.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U143	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have such a hunch that perhaps this bill is not so simple. In this regard, it may be important that, at the large meeting of the Bar Association held on 3 March, the rapporteur-general can report the winning of the work that such a law has been passed. I do not know whether it has any implications, for example, for the outcome of the elections that are taking place on that day or whether it simply makes lawyers feel better. In principle, the question could be worded in such a way that if, for example, the law did not enter into force immediately, i.e. before 3 March, it would come into effect in six months' time, would it have exactly the same value in terms of public relations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U145	Thank you for your question. I don't have that kind of hunch. I don't know how to comment on these rumors, and I didn't hear that version in the committee when I was preparing for second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U146	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U147	Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that a number of parliamentarians, after we had completed the first reading of the draft in this Chamber on 16 February, have expressed the astonishment that the Commission will take all procedural decisions in a single reading. This means that the Riigikogu has become the guardian of the Rules of Procedure of the Bar Association. Indeed, this law is necessary in order to allow the members of the Bar Association to introduce amendments to their Rules of Procedure at the general meeting on 3 March. There are a number of points in the draft that could actually be laid down in the Rules of Procedure, whether it is further training or the introduction of new fees for the Bar Association itself. They shouldn't be in the law. Plus the new statuses for which there's really no legal clarity. So what are their functions? Is it rather a demonstration of public status, or is it a continuation of real legal work? For me, too, questions were raised that we are talking about people with legal education and that lawyers should understand what is right. The fact of the Riigikogu is not ethical. As far as I am concerned, coordination with the Ministry went on for quite a long time, which is why the government came to this Chamber with a bill on the first working day of this year, may be called an accident at work or whatever, but this procedure is certainly not a good signal for the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U148	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U149	Thank you, Mr President. I think we're making history right now. We are creating a new form of law that could be called a gift law. In the future, any other group of people or organization that needs some kind of law for some anniversary may well be able to follow the example of how to obtain such a gift from us. And I believe that it will also make us, as members of the Riigikogu, feel better if we can be useful to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U150	I don't suppose anyone wants to say anything about that, do they? I'm closing the negotiations. Four amendments to the draft 164 have been tabled. Let's go through them. The first one is presented by Küllik's Hatter, disregarded. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These amendments could also be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U152	The first amendment shall be put to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp, which has been rejected by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 11 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 27 against, 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The author of the second amendment is Külliki Kübarsepp, the commission has not taken the proposal into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are also asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U154	Can we go to the vote? Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on another amendment tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 11 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 2, 27 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 3, Külliki Kübarsepp, tabled by the rapporteur, has been rejected by the commission. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U155	Thank you. Let's vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U156	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 3, author Külliki Kübarsepp, the commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 3 has 10 members of the Riigikogu, 29 against and 1 abstention. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 4, author's Committee on Legal Affairs, fully taken into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 164. Second reading of Bill 164 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U157	We will begin the second reading of the draft law amending the Rail Act and the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Waitress Kalle Palling from the Economic Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U158	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of what it looked like to prepare for the second reading of the draft law amending the Rail Act and the Public Transport Act. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 November last year and the first reading took place on 13 January. The deadline for submitting amendments was 27 January. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups. 36 proposals were received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as initiator, some of which had been formulated by the initiator's representative following discussions in the Commission working group. The Commission working group met twice. In relation to the draft, the Commission had also received its referrals and proposals from AS E.R.S. Attorney-at-Law Jüri Raidla, attorney-at-law Raidla Ellex. The representative of the originator communicated its views to the Commission by AS E.R.S. the arguments and proposals made by the representative in the opinion. As the representative of the commission, I met with the lawyers Jüri Raidla and Triin Frosch during the proceedings, who explained the arguments contained in the Commission's opinion. In order to discuss the preparation of amendments in the lead committee, a working group of the Commission met, involving all MKM specialists. The text of the bill also passed through the language department between the two readings. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at two meetings between first and second readings. We had invited representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as representatives of Raidla Ellex law firm Jüri Raidla and Triin Frosch, as well as the representative of E.R.S. Arnout Lugtmeijeri. The latter had called on the Commission to contest the amendment contained in the draft, according to which charges for the use of the railway infrastructure could in future be set by an independent infrastructure manager in place of the Technical Surveillance Authority. In fact, the whole dispute at the two meetings of the Commission went around these three main areas in order to determine who would in the future determine the charges for rail use. The Commission decided that the charging authority would not be an independent infrastructure manager in the future, as envisaged by the initiator of the draft, but would still be the Technical Surveillance Authority, as it is today. Accordingly, the Commission decided to formulate amendments on the basis of a proposal from a client of Raidla Ellex law firm and their letter. The Commission unanimously supported the principles contained in these amendments. We also made procedural decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for today's sitting of the Riigikogu for second reading, that the second reading be stopped and that when the second reading is completed, the third reading be carried out on 9 March. a and put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U159	Questions for the waitress. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The draft refers to the service facility and the operator of the service facility. It has also been said what these facilities are: passenger stations, their buildings and other facilities for passengers. The following section outlines the tasks of the operator to ensure access. My question relates to infrastructure. How far is the installation operator obliged to provide access, such as a parking lot? Does the parking lot go to the installation or to the infrastructure? The question is how, for example, a passenger gets a train from a parking lot. Whose task is it to ensure access to, for example, a platform or a building?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U161	In short, the purpose of the law is to fix more precisely the principle of the formation of rail charges. As a result, a list of additional service facilities, the construction or maintenance of which entails similar costs, has also been introduced in the Act. These costs could then be included in the charges for use. And if the railway user expects the parking lot to be included in the list of facilities for which he is willing to pay the user fee according to the relevant methodology, then I understand the meaning of the law in such a way that the owner of the railway infrastructure guarantees its access, unless otherwise agreed, i.e. that the railway user himself is the guarantor of that access. I understand you're probably thinking about today when it's snowing, who's gonna push the road open. It is expected to be agreed that since the railway user will actually pay for the use of the installation itself and of adjacent facilities, the owner will provide access at any time, unless otherwise specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U162	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U163	Good manager! Good waitress! There were quite a number of views on the draft amendment to the Railway Act, especially in these coordination tables. The correct number of comments were disregarded. My question is, have the views of the Estonian Railways, the comments they made at the time, been taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U164	No additional proposals were submitted during the process of processing the Estonian Railway Bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U165	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U166	Thank you. The question to be specified. At present, there is a situation where the land under the parking lot is often owned by the municipality. If, for example, a rubble is put in there, but the platforms are neatly fixed, they are nicely accessible, then people often do not get on the platform from the parking lot. An operator and a local authority cannot agree on the need to ensure that this infrastructure is in order. That was the reason I asked my question. How can such a situation be resolved in the sense of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U167	I do not think that this law regulates in any way the relations between the local government and the railway operator. They have to take care of themselves. The purpose of the introduction of these facilities was to fix which facilities would be added and that the associated costs could be included in the charges for rail use.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U168	Thank you, Kalle Palling! I'm opening negotiations. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U169	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, there has been talk in this hall as well as in society about the fact that, if the Act amending the Public Transport Act, which provides for a language requirement for taxi drivers when applying for a service card, enters into force on 1 April, then, as a result, if this requirement remains so, there will be a very large loss of jobs in Narva. In this light, I would also like to clarify a bit about the language issue concerning drivers. The Russian media have spoken in recent days as if the next problem was that drivers might not be ready to meet this requirement. Fortunately, the media has been misleading. First of all, I would like to stress that the draft under discussion adds to drivers the requirement under the European Union Directive that, in addition to knowledge, an assessment of language skills must be carried out in the interim check for maintaining a certificate to the driver, but the language proficiency assessment must be carried out if the language specified by the infrastructure manager for communicating on the infrastructure is not the mother tongue of the driver. In Estonia, as we know, the owner of the railway infrastructure is Estonian Railway, who can designate two languages as the official language. That's the law, it's been the law, and it's going to stay that way. These languages are Estonian and Russian, and when a person speaks either of them as a native language, there will be no problem in practice. It's as simple as that. So the fear that next we will come up with a proposal for an amendment to the fact that we have done something hasty again, thoughtlessly, is not here. Estonian Railway has established both Estonian and Russian as the official language, and if either one of them is the native language of the driver, then everything is fine and he can continue his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U170	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U171	Honourable representatives of the people, ladies and gentlemen. I can't leave one of the wrongs of the tongue undiagnosed. Estonian Railways do not have the right to designate the official languages in Estonia. Whatever the content of this amendment, we must look at it, but the Estonian official language is still Estonian. I hope the previous speaker just slipped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U172	Mr Palling would like to speak. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U173	Andres Herkel's speech simply forced the remote again. I'll explain it again. Urve Palo may have explained it nicely, but I'll explain it again. The draft includes a requirement under the Train Drivers Directive that the driver be subject to an assessment of language proficiency in addition to knowledge in the interim check required to maintain the certificate. Language proficiency must be assessed only if the language specified by the infrastructure manager for communication on the infrastructure is not the native language of the driver. The right to designate the language to be used in the railway infrastructure is provided by the Infrastructure Manager under the Directive, which may also designate two languages to be used, such as both Estonian and Russian. In practice, both languages are currently used in Estonia, and AS Eesti Raudtee has confirmed that Estonian and Russian are designated as the language of communication on the infrastructure. Thus, the language skills of the Estonian or Russian-language train driver need not be assessed in the mid-term review. The clear communication between the dispatcher and the driver is ensured by the fact that the dispatcher is able to communicate in a specified language, i.e. both Estonian and Russian, for use on both railway infrastructure. Therefore, a train driver does not necessarily have to speak both languages. Let me talk to you about the language requirements for Level B1. The level B1 requirement applies from 1 January s. a, but it should be borne in mind that Estonian proficiency at B1 level is not required, but that at this level at least one of the languages used on the railway infrastructure, i.e. Estonian or Russian, is required. Thus, if the infrastructure manager has designated Estonian and Russian for use, the driver must master at least one of them at the B1 level. Ladies and gentlemen, this very confusing fact has now been repeated three times. We hope that Andres Herkel also understood this beautifully, and I very much hope that, given the national characteristics of our rail infrastructure users and drivers, this is acceptable to all of us in this Chamber. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U174	I'm closing the negotiations. 34 amendments have been tabled by the commission on draft 129. And since these are the proposals of the commission, of course, it has taken them all into account. But we're gonna have to go through them all. So all the proposals are from the commission and all are taken into account: proposals 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34. The amendments have been examined and the second reading of the draft 129 has been completed. Before we go to the next item, we will vote on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which reads as follows: 'We ask today's Riigikogu to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted. ' I add the words 'but no longer than 14 o'clock', with the kindly permission of the performers. I will vote on the proposal that was born in the joint work of the EKRE Group and the Riigikogu Board. Honourable Riigikogu! There is another item on our agenda, and I will vote on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to extend today's plenary session of the Riigikogu until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There are 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no one opposed, with one abstention. The plenary session of the Riigikogu has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U175	We begin the first reading of § 34 of the Amendment Act, which was initiated by the National Defence Commission, 182. The rapporteur is Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U176	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft makes two very important changes to § 34 of the National Defence Act, which regulates the deployment of military forces of the Defence Forces for international military operations. As a general rule, the Riigikogu decides on the participation of the Defence Forces in international military operations. Paragraph 34 (4) of the National Defence Act provides for the possibility that, exceptionally and in limited cases, this decision can also be taken by the Minister of Defence with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Such flexibility, or the so-called general mandate, is provided for by law in cases where an operation led by NATO, its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations must proceed quickly without waiting for the decision of the Riigikogu. The involvement of the Riigikogu in the decision on posting to the operation ensures that the Riigikogu determines each year the limit number of Defence Forces that may be sent to operations on the basis of this general mandate, as well as that the Minister of Defence must consult the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu before making a decision. The purpose of the draft Act amending § 34 of the National Defence Act initiated by the National Defence Committee is to make two changes to the regulation of the general mandate described above. First of all, the Commission considers that on the basis of the general mandate given by the Riigikogu, the decision to send a military operation must be taken jointly by the entire government, not just the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Secondly, the Commission considers that the role of the National Defence Committee in this process needs to be strengthened. According to the text of the current law, the opinion of the National Defence Commission must be heard before the decision to send the Defence Forces to an operation is taken. The National Defence Committee considers that hearing only the opinion is not sufficient, but that this opinion must also be taken into account when making a decision. Therefore, there is an amendment to the draft, according to which the decision-maker, who is the Government of the Republic when the amendment enters into force, must take into account the position of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. This means that if the National Defence Commission does not support the deployment of the Defence Forces' active troops for a specific operation, the Government of the Republic cannot make a corresponding decision. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft from December last year to February this year in six sessions and two of them were attended by the Minister of Defence. The committee discussed mainly the role of the Riigikogu in sending members of the Defence Forces to international military operations in general, as well as whether § 34 (4) and (6) of the National Defence Act, which are the basis for the general mandate, is in accordance with § 128 of the Constitution, according to which the Riigikogu decides to use the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state. On the constitutionality of these provisions, the Chancellor of Justice was also asked for the position which, in a letter dated 3 February to the National Defence Committee, found them to be compatible with the Constitution. The National Defence Committee decided to initiate the draft, including at its meeting on 8 February. At its meeting on 15 February, the Commission decided to propose ending the first reading of the draft and setting the deadline for the amendments. a 4 March at 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U177	Questions for the waitress. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U178	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good colleague! Please explain more about what a general mandate is, how it is created and what goes into it! What's that all about?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U179	Thank you, my good colleague. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, this is far from the first time we are discussing exactly the same subject in this Chamber. Perhaps as a reminder that the discussions held in the Committee on National Defence in connection with the initiation of this draft were related to a draft decision which is still being dealt with by the National Defence Committee and which concerns the granting of a mandate to Estonian active troops on the basis of a general mandate to participate in an international military operation led by NATO, NATO Member State, the European Union or the UN. As you are well aware, the National Defence Act, which came into force on 1 January of this year, gives this opportunity to the legislator by setting the maximum number of active troops for each year. On the basis of the general mandate, it is possible to react quickly when changes in the security environment require Estonia to contribute quickly to some international operation. As Ants Laaneots, a member of the National Defence Commission, who defended the draft decision that I mentioned here, has already explained to you, it follows from the experience gained in our international defence cooperation that this provision was written into the National Defence Act in general in the previous Riigikogu. A direct reference has been made to this experience regarding the participation or non-participation of our active troops in the NATO operation to ensure a no-fly zone in Libya. During discussions in the National Defence Committee during these six sessions, members of the Commission from all political groups also asked the Minister of Defence a great deal of questions about this, and the end result of these discussions is the draft we are here to see you today. It is certainly also important to mention that one of the six political parties represented in the National Defence Committee, the Estonian Conservative People's Party, did not support this draft. The representatives of the other parties supported the initiation and proceeding of the draft. I think that the changes that are being introduced through the draft on the implementation of the general mandate are exactly what has been mentioned in our parliamentary debate. First, the role of the Riigikogu, i.e. the role of the National Defence Committee. This was, among other things, a consensual position of the National Defence Commission at the end of last year. Secondly, as regards the decision-making of the matter at government level, the draft contains a very clear requirement for the unanimous approval of the government, a decision by the Minister of Defence, in consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U180	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I think with this amendment we will correct one mistake that the previous Riigikogu passed on to us, and that is positive. The question, however, is this: when do you think the first such statement could come up in the Committee on National Defence? How fast is our political response, given that the National Defence Committee needs a common position of the government? Let us take the worst example of how urgent it is to react, for example, in the middle of July, during holidays.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U182	Thank you, good Andres! In fact, this is a very important issue, and the future will show what precedent such a legislative provision will ultimately set in our decision-making process. But I think that good tradition and very clearly parliamentary experience in Estonia say that all major decisions on international military operations, in which our active troops should participate in accordance with international agreements, should go through the procedure of the Riigikogu. We know very well that, whether July or January is outside, Parliament can meet quite quickly. In this case, however, we are talking about cases where, for example, there is an urgent need to include staff officers in an international operation. I think, however, that these are really very isolated cases. There is no point in predicting the future, I am not a psychic, but the experience of my parliamentary work over the last dozen years tells me that these are rather very rare cases. At the same time, we know that the current security environment contains a great many different threats and challenges to which the international community, our allies, can react in different ways in the future, and we must be prepared for these challenges. If we follow the general logic, it is also in our interest that good allies react as quickly as possible in a situation where we may need urgent support and help. It is also important to say in this debate that our partners and allies have a very different experience of how the participation of the active force or the Defence Forces in international missions is dealt with more widely and what role Parliament plays in sending defence forces to missions. For example, this issue is not a matter for us in the Finnish Parliament, in many ways, with a similar base of experience. Both in Finland and, for example, in the Netherlands, the government has powers of decision, while Germany can only send its defence contingent to an international mission if Parliament has given such a mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U183	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U184	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! I, too, agree with the previous questioner that this is one necessary correction and clarification, which I hope will be done. As you have already answered the previous questioner, neither of us is likely to consider it reasonable or possible that Estonia's participation in large and sensitive military operations could be decided in any way other than by Parliament's plenary. In order to prevent future misinterpretations, I, too, ask whether the National Defence Committee, firstly, understands this in the same way and, secondly, whether it is understood by the National Defence Act as one.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U185	Thank you, good Keit! Of course, this is a very fundamental political issue, but it also has a very practical side. If we think that the question arises as to whether to participate in any international operation in the recent history can be seen, for example, in operations such as the mission in Afghanistan, where we took part in a company-sized unit for quite a long time, or the mission in Iraq, or in the preparation of this mission alone, even in the case of a group-sized unit, as we are currently taking part in the UNIFIL in order to secure peace in South Lebanon, its purely military preparation on the Defence Forces side will take a long time. It is therefore clear that the preparation of such an operation should be limited to processing at the level of the Riigikogu and reaching a final decision in this Chamber, the mandate of the government alone is not enough. Of course, the opinion of the National Defence Committee is being sought. So, experience and various other factors clearly determine that giving a mandate to go on a wide-ranging mission, as well as a mission of principle or political sensitivity, is and remains a priority for Parliament's plenary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U186	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U187	Good manager! Good waitress! As I understand it, when our boys were sent to the war zone, there have so far been pants on the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Am I right to understand that, now that Parliament's opinion is not only to be heard but also to be taken into consideration, the National Defence Committee is also pulling on its pants and setting itself up?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U188	Thank you, good questioner! I think you have your pants on, too, that they are on the leg of the Riigikogu. In fact, according to § 128 of our Constitution, the Riigikogu decides on the participation of the active troops of the Estonian Defence Forces in international military operations. On the basis of the general mandate, the Riigikogu gives a mandate to send members of the Defence Forces to international operations, because one important point of the Constitution is that the Riigikogu determines, among other things, the limit number of active troops. Whether we are talking about an operation such as UNIFIL, which is now our Defence Forces' largest foreign operation, or some other, where only a few staff officers or instructors have been sent, is still the role of the Riigikogu. That is what the Chancellor of Justice said in response to our inquiry as to whether the wish to amend the relevant points of § 34 of the National Defence Act is in accordance with the Constitution or whether the provision of such a general mandate at all is in accordance with the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice stressed that the Riigikogu has a very clear role to play here, and he must fill the point we are talking about here with his decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U189	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U190	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! I'd say for the pants, they're shorts or one leg pants. Because when we are talking here about the constitutional requirement that the Riigikogu must give its consent, there is a very large difference between doing so by the Commission and doing so by a large hall. Andres Herkel asked me when this could happen. We know that the Commission is in the process of ageing draft 135, which deals with this general mandate, which is essentially a bill of lading. In fact, it is a matter of war or peace. And when we say that 50 soldiers can go at the moment someone needs them, and the list of countries is as long as it is, it's actually blankoveksel. But you also admitted that the operationality is not behind the political mechanism, but is still behind the military nuance. The government and the Riigikogu will certainly be able to make their decision more quickly when these soldiers are put together. If so, do we have the point of talking about operationality, or are there other reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U191	Yeah, of course, missions have a different nature. As I mentioned, when it comes to a serious, long-term mission that requires preparation and training, it is quite understandable that it will take time. However, as I said, in the current security environment, it is certainly possible to imagine situations where a quicker response is needed. And that is why a provision of the National Defence Act, which must clearly state the need for very strong parliamentary scrutiny, requires a greater expression of Parliament. Especially now that we are changing this provision through the draft, I think it would be right to support this attitude and this opportunity. The National Defence Committee, I stress, has discussed the various aspects of this issue in its six sessions, and there are forces to almost unanimously conclude that such a draft is necessary in its own form. The amendments must be introduced, and then we can also move forward with the draft decision waiting for this second reading, which you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U192	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U193	Thank you. Good waitress! I would like to make one more point for clarity. This bill states that the Government of the Republic must also take into account the position of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu before deciding whether or not to participate in an international military operation. Does this mean that if the National Defence Committee decides that the Estonian state should not participate in such a military operation, the Estonian state cannot participate in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U194	Thank you, good member of the National Defence Commission. We have also discussed this in the Committee on National Defence, and that is precisely why we want to introduce the draft amendment. As I said in my introductory speech, according to the current National Defence Act, the role of the National Defence Committee is to listen to the proposal of the Minister of Defence to send active troops to one mission or another. During the discussions, in fact already in December, as I mentioned, the Commission unanimously decided that the role of the Committee on National Defence should be defined more forcefully, to determine the weight of the Committee on National Defence's position in the final decision. The wording, which says that the position of the National Defence Committee must be taken into account, is much clearer. That is also the answer to your question: yes, if the National Defence Committee takes such a position, then the government cannot make a positive decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U195	Thank you, Marko Mihkelson! No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U196	Mr. Speaker! All ladies and gentlemen, who have not yet begun to go to the party! Indeed, our group representative did not support this draft in the Commission for very fundamental reasons. It all comes down to this general mandate, so let's say it's like a bill of lading. This is a matter of declaring war or peace, whether or not Estonia is participating in a military operation. Our firm position is that decisions of this kind can only be made at the large hall of the Riigikogu, not just at the Commission, and certainly not only at the Minister or the Government of the Republic. We are not proposing to vote the draft out of the procedure, because we believe that if it remains in the process, it will be possible to improve this aspect with its amendments. I would like to draw attention to some of the things that went through the report that I think need to be corrected or clarified. The argument that, in the interests of operationality, we need to take decision from the committee in the hall is simply not true. We know how quickly it is possible to convene an extraordinary session of the Riigikogu and decide the matter. This is definitely a faster process than, for example, putting 50 men on a plane or a ship to send them to the conflict zone. It's perfectly clear. So operational, at least in terms of political decision-making, it is certainly not here. That is why we believe that this is an attempt to bring questions that can create a very sharp contradiction, to the lowest possible level, away from the public eye. As regards the mistake made by the previous composition of the Riigikogu or a mistake with the general mandate, this whole concept of the general mandate is completely incomprehensible and incomprehensible to us. If it has so far been possible to make an individual decision on all operations, then we do not understand why it is now necessary to give full freedom by placing a limit on essentially only the number of soldiers who are going on a mission without writing out any other restrictions. But this is, of course, an argument in case we continue to deal with bill 135. These are aspects that we want to draw attention to in this amendment. Yes, we believe that the grand hall of the Riigikogu must be the final institution that decides on all mission issues. We will not be satisfied if they are decided only by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U197	On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U198	Ladies and gentlemen, Let us not be misled by such pompous expressions as 'other international military operation', 'quick response units' or conscience-soothing expressions as'mission to prepare peace'. These are legal finests and they are undoubtedly necessary in the text of the law. But basically, we're talking about the war on the eve of the Republic's anniversary. We are talking about who can decide Estonia's participation in the war. Somewhere in the world, a war that is only indirectly linked to the protection of our own citizens. And the current law on national defence gives the right to make such a decision in certain cases simply to two ministers, leaving only the number of defence forces we make available to these ministers as part of Parliament. Estonia is not a parliamentary republic by chance. It is not by chance that § 128 of our Constitution says that it is the Riigikogu that decides to use the Defence Forces in fulfilling Estonia's international obligations. Like any constitution, ours is essentially a political document. This is a controversy with the past, where Estonians have experienced, how bad it is to live in a country that is run with a hard hand, whether it grows up among us or whether it belongs to a colonising country. Our constitution says no to the manifestations of authoritarianism and also to the possibility of smuggling them through the back door. Our constitution protects justice. In the current National Defence Act, this political principle has been taken dangerously away from it, because the right to decide on participation in war has been carelessly handed over to a couple of people. Of course, we need to change that. Of course, we must give Parliament the right to decide in which places in the world our defence forces are putting their lives at risk. And, of course, this proposal must be made by the whole government, not by one or two ministers. We are a democratic republic where the highest authority is exercised by the people. Control of something as terrible as war must be as broad as possible. But this amendment to the law is very beautiful for another matter, he also brings back the spirit of the Constitution to our country in a procedural way. This amendment was born on the initiative of the opposition parties in the Committee on National Defence, and the proposal was not followed by ironing, the road roller did not follow, as we unfortunately see too often in this house. The proposal was followed by weeks of very constructive discussions and a respectful hearing of each other's arguments. The draft that we have before us today is not quite ideal, but it has been achieved by consensus, as a result of respectful negotiations. This is good regulation. And the way we achieved it gives me the belief that the National Defence Commission can be trusted. The National Defence Committee listens to each other, the National Defence Committee is operational and Parliament can turn this issue into the hands of its members, who care particularly about defence matters. I hope that we will deal with this draft in this Chamber with the same respect and in the same way as we did in the Committee on National Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U199	Madis Milling, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U200	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, For the sake of accuracy, I have to deal with some of the comments made by my fellow Members who have spoken above. Dear colleague Martin, you said that since one unit will be assembled long enough, the Riigikogu will also have enough time to meet. I totally agree with that. And if our battle force, be it this group, the company, is going somewhere in the war zone, that's exactly the question of Oudek, war and peace. Of course, the Riigikogu is the place where this matter must be decided. However, we are mainly talking about cases where, in two or three days' time, an officer of staff or an observer needs to be sent somewhere. It doesn't require an enormous amount of work. And is it so much a matter of war and peace that the Riigikogu must meet for this? Finally, I would like to say in support of Oudekki that I am pleased that in the Committee on National Defence, all kinds of political games and fishing muffling have been left behind the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-23_U201	The political group has spoken. Honourable Riigikogu! There are no more requests for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 182. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 March at 4 p.m. Thank you! Have a nice day tomorrow! I'll see you Thursday. Closure of the sitting at 1.18 p.m.
