ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! Currently, 44 members of the Riigikogu are present at Question Time. The following members of the government participate in Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Defence Margus Tsahkna and Minister of Culture Indrek Saar. Yesterday, ten members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask a question in Question Time, so I will give the Riigikogu member who signed his name yesterday and everyone else together, as usual, one more question for each of the main questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U2	Let's start asking questions. The first questioner is Andres Herkel and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, welcome to your response. We have, in the meantime, studied different laws about the demands that are placed on the carriers of different public offices. It has been said that the Chancellor of Justice must have high moral qualities, the Auditor General must also be honest and moral, etc. None of this is included in the Government of the Republic Act. Consequently, my question is this: how have you tried to ensure that ministers are credible, honest, moral, etc. when choosing ministers? And should this be laid down in a separate law in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, I am glad to be able to open up by answering the question of a very honourable member of the Riigikogu, Mr Herkel, your question. Thank you. I think that, of course, every Prime Minister understands that ministers are in society with great and serious attention. They are expected to face high demands. In your question, you mentioned such qualities as moral, honest, conscientious. Yeah, I think the minister and, of course, every person has to be that way. The other part of your question was how I have chosen ministers. I can talk about my party ministers, four people. On the one hand, of course, I have been thinking that a person would have experience in a particular area, acquired by working either in the private sector or in the public sector. On the other hand, I also think it is important to feel about society. Thirdly, of course, I have asked every person who has come to the government whether he has had any serious violations or penalties and whether he understands that in the future he must rely solely on the interests of the state. I understand that this issue was specifically targeted at a minister, he has asked for his resignation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U5	Andres Herkel, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The question is not going to be more specific with regard to one minister. This problem has now been resolved in a certain way. Instead, I would tie this issue to the credibility of the governments and the processing of the so-called cluster law that we are facing today. The Centre Party has previously strongly criticised such a procedure, and now you are doing it yourself. In football terminology, it's probably worth a yellow card. The two parties in your government, the IRL and the Social Democrats, will do so twice. The meaning of the second yellow card is actually a red card. My question is this: how honestly and reliably have the parties to the government handled this cluster law, these tax changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U7	Thank you. I will certainly try to respond to the cluster law, although the key issue was the credibility of the members of the government. If we look at the current procedure, the clear reason is that the new government has taken office at a time of the year when the Riigikogu has to decide on the state budget for the following year. The formation of the government was preceded by coalition negotiations and we have really shared the view in this sense that certain important areas of the Estonian economy must change. The main thing that we believe must change in the Estonian business and economic environment is that people who earn either a small or an average salary must receive a higher net income so that their social security will increase. Indeed, the increase in the tax-free minimum leaves more money in the hands of everyone who earns gross wages up to EUR 1758 each month. To pay around 1200 euros, people will receive 62 euros more net. One topic that was very strongly on the table during the coalition negotiations was to cut social tax by half a percentage. You know that it will give a little over EUR 40 million to the state budget if this change does not come up. On the other hand, it is the business sector that has more of a signal that this half a percent fall will not help Estonian entrepreneurship in any way. I think that if we lower the social tax by half a percentage now and, in six months or a year, we raise it back to the old level, it will certainly not increase confidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U8	Now, the question to be specified. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U9	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! In your agreement, there is such a very proud sentence: in order to break the stagnation, Estonia needs a fully-fledged government based on trust and open to ideas. Unfortunately, with this cluster bill, whose objectives in themselves are perfectly okay and understandable, the smugness of the previous government is repeated. It does not create the capacity for cooperation and trust. Why are tax changes that enter into force on 1 January 2018 not recommended to be postponed to 1 July 2017? How did the shortcomings of the previous government make it the most felt when it came to resolving the issues? Why are you repeating these mistakes? You will be able to implement the changes as a new government, a new new force. Why don't you bring them in?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U10	Thank you for that question. We want to bring about very strong changes in the current tax system. Perhaps my answer to Mr Herkel was not clear enough, so I repeat my point. A very necessary change will be that a large part of Estonia's working population will feel more secure. For people with a gross salary of 1200 euros or less, 62 euros more will be left to earn their daily bread. The second option is to raise the tax-free minimum by EUR 10 per year, leaving an additional EUR 2 per month. The difference is noticeable: EUR 62 or EUR 2. In order to ensure that the budget does not become unbalanced due to these changes, it is of course necessary to make other tax changes that go hand in hand with the budget adopted by the Riigikogu. These processes must simply be launched in parallel or, rather, a tax decision must be made before the Riigikogu decides on the draft budget at the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U12	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U13	Mr. Speaker! Dear Minister of Culture, Last week, our People's Foundation, under the Ministry of Culture, organised a conference on the integration of MISA, where left-wing multiplicators had gathered all over the world, such as Professor Haci Halil Uslucan, a German professor with a very German name, and British expert Uduak Archibong, a very British name. Among other things, there was a character named John Berry, who teaches at the Higher School of Economics in Moscow, which is clearly a Kremlin-led educational institution. The President of the Council of this institution shall be the Deputy Head of the Russian President's Administration. And this Berry explained at the conference that Estonians must learn Russian. I have a question why the Ministry of Culture is organising events where pro-Kremlin red professors come to explain to us that we have to learn Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U14	Thank you, dear questioner. First of all, I would like to assure you that the Estonian language has been agreed at constitutional level and has also been reiterated in the agreement of the government coalition that Estonian language is a constitutional priority in Estonia. The majority of Estonian society will certainly think that Estonia has one official language in the future. I'm gonna share it, and I think it's gonna stay that long. When we talk about a conference organised by MISA, it was a very good level conference. I also dare to advise the honourable questioner to attend the following conferences so that he can discuss with experts the challenges of integration in today's world without prejudice. The conference was entitled 'The Challenges of Integration in a Radicalizing World'. It was a very substantive conference with a large number of experts from both abroad and Estonia. I don't know what you're defining their worldview on. Nor will I discuss with you which name of one person or another reflects what nationality. I think it's inappropriate. However, I do think that we need to speak openly about the challenges that we are facing. Contrary to the questioner, I participated in the conference and I dare to confirm that the mentioned John Berry did not make any compelling recommendations for Estonia to establish another national language. He said that integration would be as successful as possible if Estonian people understood Russian as well. I think it is also useful for competitiveness if the Estonian people speak several languages, especially in this context, where one of our neighbours, where 140 million people live, uses Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U15	Thank you, Minister. I understand that members of the government sometimes need to talk longer, but let's try to stay within two minutes. Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U16	Thank you. Today there is an internet, the event could be viewed online. I looked, not to the full extent, and I am convinced that a lot of taxpayers' money has been plowed into it. Everything was done dearly and proudly. I also looked at the background of the performers. The almighty Google offers their articles and speeches and also allows you to read what they have said somewhere outside Estonia. I would say that there are regions in Estonia, both in Tallinn and in Virumaa, where the Estonian language cannot be managed. And if then the Ministry is organising an event for us, the message of which is that it does not have to be received, but that the Estonians must learn Russian, then for me it is a serious problem and a very bad signal, which you also fixed and strengthened with your presence and speech. And now I have a question. The same Berry tells us that integration is a two-way street where everyone has to give up something. I would like to know what you think me and the other Estonians should give up in order for integration to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U17	Having heard your second question on this subject, I have a suggestion that you should not be prejudiced. I would also strongly recommend that the subject be taken into consideration in order to participate in substantive discussions such as the MISA conference. When we talk about organising a conference and where this funding came from, the funding is very transparent. This money came from the Estonian state in cooperation with many of our good Western partners. It is certainly very transparent and in every way state-faithful. What, though, could be called questionable conferences? For example, a conference was held recently, organised by the Foundation for the Protection of the Family and Tradition with an NGO created on questionable grounds and called a false lawyer who blacked out our good partners in Norway and presented a number of lies that are disproving. As regards the ripping out of the context of matters, we also know that recently the voice of the Russian army, Krasnaja Zvezda, called a good questioner one of the very sensible Estonian politicians who has a different understanding of NATO than in the general Estonian state. These concepts therefore more coincide with the Russian army's perceptions, which are known to be slightly different from the Estonian state's previous concepts of cooperation with NATO.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U18	Mart Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, Krasnaja Zvezda said that Martin Helme was a reasonable person, probably not a fool. You could stick to the quotes. As far as Varro Vooglaid and his foundation are concerned, unlike the MISA conference, it does not use taxpayers' money. That's two. Thirdly, when you talk about organisations with suspicious backgrounds in Estonia, Berry is essentially a figure on Kremlin's payroll, not a suspicious one, but a clear one. Let's stick to the facts! Now my question to you: do you think all Estonians should learn Russian and speak Russian, or do you have a different opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U20	I think that everyone in Estonia should learn Estonian, and I very much hope that as many people as possible will learn that in the near future. At the same time, where all the people who live in Estonia speak smooth Estonian, probably never will come. It would assume that there will be no outsiders coming here at all. So, unfortunately, the question of how best to teach Estonian to those whose native language is not Estonian is likely to remain before us for a very long time. But we're working on it. The new coalition has also set out in its agreement not only activities but also additional tools to ensure that teaching the Estonian language as a foreign language is as successful as possible. At the same time, I also think that the people of Estonia could learn as many foreign languages as possible. This, too, is one of the challenges facing the Estonian education system, so that our people are as good as possible users of foreign languages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U21	I will conclude on this issue. I will repeat, just in case, that there is no confusion: I will give the hall an opportunity to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U22	The next question is for Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U23	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! The Estonian people had the opportunity to read your interview, where you said that you are now able to decide manlylyly and that you have devoted the beginning of your term of office to disprove my words by sending France 24. You have decided that I have said something there that you must disprove. What do you want to disprove? I understand this is what the entire Department of Defense wants. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U24	Thank you, good questioner! It is no secret that this time the change of government in Estonia did not go as if it were appropriate for a normal civilized country. I also say that, if, in the past, no matter what time, governments have been changed, the settlements between themselves have been left to each other. It is no secret this time that the Reform Party has failed to leave the government. Humanly, I understand that, but 17 years have been held in power. Now this damage, which has been caused above all at international level, calling this government both a left turn and a very pro-Russian government, has caused a great many of the questions that our diplomats have had to answer, which our politicians and I have now had to answer in the office of the Minister of Defence. This has been the main activity during the first week, so that the message that goes out of Estonia is that in fact Estonia will continue on the same course, which has been clearly agreed by consensus in both security policy and foreign policy. It is no secret that in the negotiations of the government coalition, we first agreed precisely that Estonia will continue its security policy course, that Estonia will be a firm ally to its partners, that Estonia will not take any steps in relations with Russia, which we did not have in politics so far, that Estonia will continue its policy of sanctions against Russia as long as Russia does not respect the principles of international law. All statements to the contrary, as members of the government still in office, have actually undermined this trusty relationship. Now, not only with words, but also with actions in this government, we need to get out of the memos that have been given to foreign diplomats.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U25	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U26	Mr. Secretary of Defense! It's still pathetic if you're still piling yourself up to the Reform Party and answering a specific question with such a foam of words. I asked what you said in your interview that I was the one who gave France 24 an interview where I slandered the government. I can tell you that I was asked there about the Treaty with the United Russia and other such things, but I have never said of the government that it is pro-Russian, and I have not long boasted in Europe that the Estonian Government is on the left. Please answer honestly what you said about me in your interview. Why did you say that, and do you intend to apologize?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U27	Good questioner! I don't intend to apologize. This particular interview also took place in the context of what the party leaving power expressed in its words throughout this period. What I want to say is that I am not the only person who has had to disprove false claims in his dealings with our international partners. The change of governments is a democratic process, and usually this exchange is within the limits of courtesy. I recall, for example, 2002 when the government led by Mart Laar resigned. Whatever the reason, Mart Laar gave the new government a blessing in a very difficult security situation at the time. I wish that if any change of government were to take place in the future, it would be done in a statesmanly manner and would not undermine Estonia's international relations. This is particularly important in the current situation. If I've done you wrong, Jürgen Ligi, I have not done it maliciously. But this whole thing is like this, you know it very well. When you were a foreign minister, you were repeatedly asked whether there had been a left turn in Estonia, whether a pro-Russian government had come to power in Estonia. You know very well that it is not, and our country will actually continue to be strong. I hope that in the field of foreign policy and security policy, the consensus that has been in Estonia since the beginning of the 1990s will not be broken. It's a very high value, but it's very easy to question even with a few sentences. This is a question of the security of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U28	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Good ministers! I think it's best to forget emotions for a while and just talk about facts. As far as the facts are concerned, the Treaty with the United Russia is a fact. To accuse both Estonian journalists and foreign journalists who reside in Estonia and are well-informed with Estonia that they are inclined to talk about the fact that the Central Party has an agreement with the United Russia, I think it is a bit of a one-to-one court against them. You've caused the reputational damage you're referring to yourself. Your former chairman said a year ago that the agreement with the United Russia is a fundamental red line between the cooperation between the IRL and the Centre Party. Why do you accuse the Reform Party of damaging its reputation when you yourself have created it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U30	Thank you. It was not a question, but I am asking for an opportunity to answer. I have a message for the Reform Party: get over it! I'm serious! Nor does the Single Russian Protocol sound very credible from your mouth, especially from your mouth. It sounds credible from our mouths, but not from yours. A hundred days after the conclusion of this protocol, you did with the government. The government led by Andrus Ansip gave Yana Toomi special services for citizenship. I do not think it is appropriate for you to address this issue. And believe me, the Fatherland is in government, which is patriotic, which protects the interests of the Estonian state! You can be very sure of that. Since 1988, this has been our task and we have done all this together. My call is for all the political parties represented in this Chamber to proceed uniformly with the policy that has been agreed. I am thinking, in particular, of security and foreign policy. Everyone in this Chamber, every minister in the government, every diplomat who works for the Estonian state, bears this responsibility. It is understandable to deal with these issues in the sense of 'internal propaganda', and it is also possible to understand some bitterness, but it must not be done at international level. It's my wish. I have not blamed any journalists, no diplomats. On the contrary! So get over it, men and women, let's get on with Estonia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U32	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U33	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! More than ten years ago, nearly 100 years old Linnamäe hydroelectric power plant was restored. In order to restore it, the state then put a little over 22 million kroons. Now, more than ten years later, the Ministry of the Environment has decided that it should be broken down so that fish can have a spawning area. I would like to point out that the city's hydroelectric power plant is located on Jägala River and about a mile and a half away from Jägala Falls. Local residents have requested that the hydroelectric power plant be placed under heritage protection in order to protect the facility from destruction. How far is it from discussing this application, and why is putting it under heritage protection now lingering?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U34	Thank you. This is a very important and much wider issue. I really hope that Estonia will be able to maintain such an excellent building monument as the city's hydropower plant, and that it will not happen that next year, if we can celebrate 100 years of designing this building, it will be demolished. As Minister of Culture, I will certainly do my best to find a compromise. On the other hand, it is known that the Ministry of the Environment has set itself the goal of creating a new spawning area for salmonids or restoring a spawning area 100 years ago, and they believe that the best method is at least partial opening of the Linnamäe dam. In the summer, the National Heritage Board proposed that I take it into heritage conservation in a building monument. We have been trying to compromise with the Ministry of the Environment ever since. As a result of the summer meeting, we had an agreement that the Ministry of the Environment would carry out an environmental impact assessment, unfortunately it has not been done so far. We also met at the beginning of November, and the Minister for the Environment personally assured me that they were trying to find a compromise, and that is what we have been looking for. For our part, we have also offered technical solutions on how to proceed with this. I still don't know if we can reach an agreement with the Ministry of the Environment. In the event that a compromise cannot be reached, there is indeed one way to defend it even slightly, depending on the cultural monument's situation, that I am placing this monument under the protection of my decree.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U35	Thank you. Arthur Talvik, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U36	Yeah, that's the point. There is a significant difference between simply protecting this building or protecting this object as it works. This hydropower plant provides energy to some 3,000 households. In Estonia, there are basically only two rivers where it makes sense to produce hydropower, one of them is the Jägala River and the other is the Narva River. Unfortunately, this is not happening in the Narva River. Has the Ministry of the Environment also put pressure on you, for example, to say that if you put the dam under heritage protection, we will certainly make sure that we do not give, I do not know, a special water permit or something like that, so that the work of the hydroelectric power plant cannot continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U37	As far as the preservation of cultural monuments is concerned, practice shows that cultural monuments that are in active use are best preserved. Indeed, if hydroelectric power production on this barrier were to be discontinued, it would be less likely to be maintained in order than if the plant was in operation, taking into account the experience so far. Since the difference between water levels, i.e. the height of the water behind the barrier and the natural riverbed, is very difficult to find a technical solution so that fish can spawn upstream. We can propose possible options that we have been able to identify elsewhere in the world, in good faith that a compromise can be found between the wishes of the Ministry of the Environment and the beliefs of the Ministry of Culture. I'm sure that's what we're looking for. But indeed, the Minister of Culture cannot decide on a special permit for water use; the Minister of Culture can decide whether or not to take one or the other item into protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U38	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good ministers! First of all, Minister of Culture, I would like to convey a message to your minister on the left: get over yourself that you are even more slippery than any salmonian who has flooded the city hill from the hydroelectric power plant for 100 years in the run-off of patriotic values. But the question to you is, what do you think, if for a hundred years these salmonids have flooded from there, how now, in 101 or 110, I don't remember the exact year of setting it up, it's not possible anymore? And the additional question is how you feel about the political governance of state companies. As we know, this object belongs to Eesti Energia and the Minister of the Environment has strongly pressed the general meeting of Eesti Energia so that Eesti Energia would stop producing electricity there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U40	Now I don't understand, should I repeat your words to the minister sitting on my left hand again? [[A voice from the hall.]] Well, it's very good of you to relieve me of that responsibility. To be exact, it was built between 1922 and 1924, with 100 years missing, however, for several years. Unfortunately, I am not an expert in assessing how many salmonids have escaped this barrier since it was formed. You said they'd swam over it. My peasant's mind, however, refuses to believe that it is possible to swim up such a powerful barrier, but, you know, nature is sometimes unfathomable. As far as possible discussions with representatives of Eesti Energia by the Minister of the Environment are concerned, you must ask my colleague, the Minister of the Environment. I don't know how to comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U42	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U43	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! Good George, I think you remember very well last June when we sat in this hall until the early hours of the morning and, of course, for what reason. The reform party-led government, as a cluster bill, wanted to push through a great deal of tax changes. At that time, the Centre Party, together with the Conservative People's Party and the Free Party, was very, very critical, finding that this pressure on tax changes in one cluster did not comply with the principle of democracy and did not show respect for Parliament. But now it seems that the only mistake was that those who did it were the wrong parties. If it's the right party, he can still do it and several degrees harder. How do you think it is that the government led by the Centre Party is actually doing exactly what the Reform Party did? In essence, there is no difference in attitude towards Parliament or democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U44	Thank you for your question. First, if I may, I will say two words to comment on the previous question. I understand that as head of government, I have to get involved in what Kalle Palling said about IRL. What I'm trying to say is that when we were negotiating coalition, they were very busy. IRL put on the table very strongly the development of the Estonian economic environment, defence policy issues and, of course, the preservation of the Estonian people, culture and language. These completely open topics were important to everyone, but IRL certainly stood up for them the most. Good questioner Jaak Madison, thank you for this question. Of course, our behaviour is very different from that of the Reform Party at the time. I have already answered the good questioners of the Free Party and tried to explain it, but this is an important question and I will say my opinion again. First of all, the government union has a desire to deal with them quickly, I would say a few, tax changes that are urgent due to the date of entry into force. There is another side here, which does not require a very wide-ranging amendment to the legislative framework. So what do we want to do? That's the right question. As you know, the law currently includes a half-percent reduction in social tax. Indeed, I have not heard very many signals from the business sector or from economic specialists that this must not be reduced under any circumstances. Of course, what is involved in this plan requires a slightly urgent procedure. We are of the opinion that the major tax reform that every person in Estonia would benefit from must be done, but in this case the reduction in social tax must be canceled next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U45	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U46	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Yes, we can talk about nuances about which tax change is good or bad, but that is not a question right now. It is a question of good practice in legislation, of how we make even very good changes. I agree with this social tax solution, but the question is how we implement it. It's not enough that it's good. He has to look good, but he doesn't look good in any way right now. That's another thing. When we talk about changes, nuances, I remember very well how the Centre Party, while in opposition, criticised very strongly the changes that stimulate border trade. Now, unfortunately, we see that, apart from the fact that we are going across the border to buy fuel, we will soon be able to launch either a train or an express bus to Valka Alko1000. How do you assess such tax changes in order to implement the budget precisely through excise duties? Plus the fact that it's a cluster bill. How does this coincide with good lawmaking practice? That's against it!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U47	Thank you for this clarification. I can bring up some more numerical aspects. For example, we will take next year's budget volume, which is 9.5 billion. If we take these changes into account quickly, they will cover about 1% of this 9.5 billion, or about 100 million. But, Mr Madison, in answer to your question: as regards everything relating to border trade and excise policy, and I would also say VAT policy, I agree that it is not good for the Estonian state to buy fuel across the border. This is not right from the point of view of tax collection. That is why this policy needs to be changed. After all, we have agreed that on 1 January 2018, for example, the excise duty on diesel will not rise. It is true that we have to take account of the changes that we are going to make in 2018, as early as the 2017 budget is being processed, and there is very little time for this in the Riigikogu. Now another thing, VAT on hotels, for which the Centre Party has also been very critical. This amendment will already enter into force on 1 January 2017 and from 9% to 14% this rate of VAT will not increase. This, too, actually means minus minus 11 million in the budget. But we are absolutely convinced that the profit earned in the field of business and tourism in Estonia is much higher. As far as lean alcohol is concerned, we have agreed to increase the excise duty on lean alcohol. This has two main objectives. One is, of course, public health and reduced consumption of alcohol. The second objective is that the share of excise duty in the price of lean and strong alcohol must be even.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U48	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U49	Thank you. Prime Minister! First of all, this clarification. Here, it was recalled that one of the earlier proceedings concerning the preliminary tax rulings was being carried out. This was not the case at the time, however, that these drafts did not pass a mandatory coordination round in e-law. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it turned out that your draft tax laws have not passed the round of coordination. But what I'm asking is that if you insist all the time that only urgent matters need to be adopted by the turbo method, why do you want to adopt a law now that establishes a progressive tax-free minimum? It will enter into force on 1 January 2018 according to your draft law. There's a year to go. But this is a comprehensive draft that affects 600000 people's tax returns, creates a great deal of confusion and also calls for the reorganisation of the e-Tax Board in the tax administration. Why rush it when it's a year and more?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U50	Thank you, Mr Sõerd. First of all, if one of the draft laws is to be amended a lot, I think that members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to interrupt the second reading and that amendments can still be tabled. In my opinion, this is the right direction and this direction should suit both the coalition and the opposition. I am absolutely convinced that if we interrupt the reading of a draft law, the first thought of the opposition is how constructively to improve this bill, to make it even more substantive. That's an idea. The opposition is hardly going to discuss the fact that there is now an opportunity to make a lot of amendments and to start taking breaks. I don't think that's a top priority. Now, about why we're doing this, as you asked, Mr Sõerd. [[Sighs.]] There's a decision to be made. It can't be that we don't make decisions. Has it been turbo-speed? I wouldn't dare say turbo-speed. It is thought through and a decision needs to be made. This government cannot afford to stall itself. But we're really running things too long. At the same turbo-speed, we certainly don't act. You asked why we wanted to make these changes. The main thing, however, is that the Estonian population would benefit very much from tax changes, so that ordinary workers, who have about 86% of the Estonian population, would receive more money every month to increase their social security. You had a direct question, and that is the direct answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U52	The next question is also for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have a question as a member of the Committee on Culture and Education, but of course also as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia. Mikhail Kõlvart, a member of your party, has said through the media that our local Russian schools are going back to a full Russian-language curriculum. What is your attitude as Prime Minister on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U54	Thank you, Reverend Asker! First of all, point one. Speaking of the assistant mayor of Tallinn, I think your statement comes from an interview in which his explanations, as well as the explanations of the journalist, were included. He has told me that he certainly has no desire to alleviate language requirements. You're talking about a Russian curriculum. It's really the first time I've heard about it. What's the deal? It has been agreed that under the current basic school and upper secondary school law, this possibility exists, and as a member of your committee you will certainly know this very well, if the school board makes a proposal to this effect to the local government council and the council makes a request to the Government of the Republic, it can be granted an exception. I repeat, according to the current PGS, this is possible. But the exception is not to switch to Russian. The exception is that language training can be organised more flexibly by the school administration. At the same time, we have agreed in the new coalition that the level of learning the Estonian language must rise, i.e. the requirements must become stricter. Those who graduate now have to take a language examination at B2. We are of the opinion that if the Government of the Republic decides at all to grant this exception in experimental schools, then the level of the Estonian language in the future must be C1 which is much more difficult to achieve. So the training is definitely getting stronger. We have agreed that we would also like to support these schools financially so that they can hire better teachers and obtain better workbooks and textbooks. It's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U55	Heidy Purga, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U56	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Could you please specify what you meant by the fact that this training can be organised more flexibly?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U57	Thank you. When the school management is told that Estonian language learning must become better, it must be ensured that young people have the opportunity to go to the Estonian university after graduating from high school or upper secondary school and can handle the national language there. Yes, that really means a level of C1, which is a higher level than is currently required. Now, what does this change mean? This means that the school administration can decide whether they are given in one language or another. I have personally studied at the Nõmme Gymnasium in a simple school, a former 10th secondary school in a real class. I will be honest with you when real subjects are given in a foreign language, it is very difficult to understand them; it is difficult to learn and teach real subjects in a native language, too, because real subjects are complicated. But in the overall picture, the management of such a school must ensure that when students graduate from upper secondary school or high school, they can speak Estonian well. If such an opportunity arises at all on the basis of the decision of the Government of the Republic, then it will certainly be a very important day-to-day communication between the Ministry of Education and Research, i.e. the central government, the specific school and the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U58	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U59	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I hear what you're saying, and I'm disappointed. I, in my last job, set a much more ambitious goal. This was due to the fact that each language is better acquired when learning it begins as early as possible. I therefore ask how you feel about the start of Estonian language learning in all schools from the first grade and, if necessary, the language immersion method. I hope your answer is short and clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U60	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Mrs Lauri. Please don't be disappointed. If there's anything I can do to help with this with my explanation, I'm sure I'll do it. It is not good that a member of the Riigikogu is disappointed. But now my short answer. You're saying language training could start in first class. The short answer is that I would start language training in kindergarten. The new government has provided not only for a goal but also for a financial allocation in the coalition agreement, so that language learning is much more effective in early childhood.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U62	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, With your permission, I would like to return to the excellent conference that took place on 29 and 30 November. There were indeed many experts, performers from several countries. The performers' plejad was diverse and had a wide range of experiences. But I ask who was expected to attend this conference as listeners. Who was the target group? And what are the conclusions of this conference, as the Ministry responsible for integration?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U64	Thank you. Once again, however, this conference was organised by the Integration Foundation, which is primarily chaired by the Council. Of course, we have had full cooperation with this foundation, of course. It was a desire to talk about different models that have been more or less successful in other parts of the world, and to try with those Estonian people who are interested in the subject, either because of their duties or for other reasons, to think and look for solutions to move in the direction of Estonia so that the integration process would be as successful as possible. In my opinion, this discussion is also very much needed in the Riigikogu Hall. As your colleague Martin Helme gave an idea of his questions, there are prejudices in our society that are not conducive to integration. The conflict and intimidation tactics between different ethnic groups are certainly not a good solution for integration. Since the beginning of the 2000s, all integration documents in Estonia have stated that integration is a bilateral activity: it requires understanding from both natives and those who have moved to our country later. It doesn't just mean that the people who have come here accept a hundred percent of all the standards that we have who live here as natives. We, too, must, to some extent, respect the differences that these people have. This is one of the basic principles of successful integration.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U65	Krista Aru, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'll help you by repeating your question. For 25 years, we have tried to deal successfully with integration in Estonia. We must admit, however, that it is not successful. What are the conclusions drawn for the Ministry from this conference or from previous experiences? What and how does the Ministry of Culture, as the responsible ministry, want to change in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U67	Surely one of the goals of organising such a conference is the debate on this subject. There is also a need to talk about possible models of successful integration in a wider society. If we go specifically to what is in the new government agreement, then we must certainly understand when planning integration that language learning alone is not the solution to integration. We also need to ensure that people feel integrated into society in every other way. There's a good base for that. Our latest integration monitoring shows that people in both Estonian and non-Estonian want to communicate with each other, to communicate with each other, yes, also so! The trend of learning each other's languages is growing. This window of opportunity must certainly be used actively by the state. If we now come to language learning, we will understand that our desire to learn the language is greater than our ability to provide high-quality, modern-level language learning. However, a step forward can be taken here, and that is why additional resources for the establishment of language centres are also planned in the 2018 budget. These houses will have very diverse functions in order to help them learn Estonian as a foreign language. In particular, adults are concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U68	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U69	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Culture! You mentioned prejudice in your first reply. In that case, however, it is not a prejudice if we have a person coming to the conference who works at a Russian university that is directly affected by Kremlinism and Russian propaganda. And he'll get more money to perform in Estonia! And this is organized by this foundation for our taxpayer's common money! It's not prejudice, it's a fact. Prejudice was expressed by you when you spoke about Varro Vooglaiu and Markus Järvi Foundation, which does not receive any euro cents from the budget of the Republic of Estonia, or our taxpayer's pocket, and acts with donations. It was also clear from your answers that you seem to be prejudiced about the Conservative People's Party. Here are two questions: do you not have any prejudice against the Conservatives and, secondly, is the current government really as patriotic as your good colleague, Margus Tsahkna, from the so-called Fatherland party, claimed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U70	I'm sure I have prejudices, too. I'm trying to deal with them slowly. I'm sure I'm prejudiced. But the fact that I do not share a conservative view of the world in most aspects is not prejudice, but it is called a view of the world. If you wish, I am so tolerant or at least trying to be tolerant enough to accept that you also call it a prejudice, which I call a view of the world. Your constant attempt to stamp John Berry as agent of the Kremlin is certainly anything but a constructive dialogue. It's a political tool to create fear. It is not known to me that the Estonian security authorities consider John Berry to be Kremlin's agent. Had they brought this to our attention, his presence at this conference would, of course, have been questionable and difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U71	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. One minute to the end of Question Time, you won't be able to ask or answer. Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar and Minister of Defence Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U72	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U73	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On 6 December, the Riigikogu Committee on Culture decided to initiate a draft decision of the Riigikogu to appoint new members to the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. As we all know quite well, the representatives of all the political groups in the parliament and, in addition, experts are present in the Estonian National Broadcasting. The three groups have proposed to replace their current members. In particular, the Social Democrats have proposed to replace Andres Anvelt with Kalvi Kõrva, a member of the Riigikogu, the Centre Party has proposed to appoint Marika Tuus-Laul instead of Enn Eesmaa, and the IRL has proposed to appoint Viktoria Ladynskaja to the Broadcasting Council in place of Kalle Muul. In accordance with our procedures, the preparation of this proposal is within the remit of the Committee on Culture, which is why this draft has been drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U74	I have adopted one draft, and we will proceed with it in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! Currently 86 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session, 15 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U75	Dear Riigikogu, let's go to today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law 258 on the amendment of the matrimonial property register law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws (transfer of the property register and the making of entries). I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since the draft law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption, the verification of presence, please! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law 258 on the amendment of the matrimonial property register law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote. There were 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Act, no one opposed, with one abstention. The law amending the matrimonial property register law and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U76	Next on our agenda is the third reading of draft law 317 on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! With the bill that we are going to vote on right now, we are going to change quite a few things, but I want to focus here on a little detail. Indeed, one of the substantive amendments to the draft provides for the provision of childcare services by local authorities to children with deep and severe disabilities. The obligation to provide childcare services has been the responsibility of the local government so far, but it has been divided into countries. It has been the responsibility of the state to finance the care of a child with a deep and severe disability, and the organisation of this service in practice has been the responsibility of the municipality, even though in the Social Welfare Act the childcare service has so far been a part of the state's assistance. The state has indeed allocated funds to the municipalities to pay for the care provided to children with severe and deep disabilities. Each year, the state allocates EUR 402 per child per year, and it is also possible to use the balance of public money allocated to the municipality for the provision or development of other services to the same target group. At the same time, local authorities consider that State support is not sufficient. Last year, 803 children, i.e. around 11% of the target group who received public funding, used the child care service with severe and profound disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U78	Monika Haukanõmm, I'm sorry! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, honourable Riigikogu. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U79	At the same time, I would point out that children with disabilities, including children with deep and severe disabilities, are 7113 in Estonia. The question is why this service, which is actually very much needed, is not particularly used. Is the service insufficient? Are there no recognised and qualified people for this, so that in essence the service is not available in some areas? Do parents not know about this service, or is there a reason for something else? In any case, the proposed changes were opposed to the representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, suggesting that the local government is actually given a new task of providing the child with a disability with a care service, and the law also says that every time this need must be thoroughly assessed, but there is not enough money to meet it. In addition, we do not have enough social workers to carry out this task. If, as legislator, we say that a local social worker must do so, then we must also assess whether we can do so. We must not give false messages to the target group: on the one hand, it is like the right to receive a service, on the other hand, it is known that only 10% of the target population can use it. Yes, I recognise that according to the draft, the state will allocate another million euros from the state budget to support the parents of children with deep disabilities. It sounds proud, and actually it is proud, it really is a very large amount of money. But I would very much like to draw your attention to the fact that if we use this money, we will further narrow the target group. This EUR 1 million can only be used by parents of children with deep disabilities, and we only have 706. I consider it ideologically completely wrong that childcare is only the right to receive this money for a child with a deep disability. All children are important to us, regardless of the severity of someone's disability, who is medium, deep, or severe. We should approach here on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, the situation cannot be considered satisfactory in any way. I hope we will eliminate this mistake next year. At the moment, however, we support the adoption of this draft as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U80	There is no further wish for negotiations. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is also necessary for the adoption of this draft. Incoming check, please! Currently 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 317. Please take a stand and vote. There were 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Social Welfare Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U81	We will start reading 250 third reading of the draft law amending the Construction Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the State Fees Act. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Construction Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the State Fees Act 250. Please take a stand and vote. There were 90 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the draft 250, no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Building Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act and the State Fees Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U82	The draft law amending the Rescue Act and the Police and Border Guard Act 309 is now on the agenda. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Rescue Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Police and Border Guard Act 309. Please take a stand and vote. There were 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill 309 and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Rescue Act and the Police and Border Guard Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U83	Third reading of the draft law amending the university law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the University Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it 295. Please take a stand and vote. There were 84 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill 295, no votes against and 1 abstention. The law amending the University Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U84	Now the Riigikogu's decision "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on a peace-building mission in Kosovo" is submitted by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur on behalf of the National Defence Commission is Ain Lutsepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U85	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U86	Ain Lutsepp, sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, we respect the waitress so that she can perform. It is his duty, the Commission asked him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U87	Draft 333 'The extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on a peace-building mission in Kosovo' would be extended until 31 December 2017. I will introduce the procedures that have taken place in the meantime in the Commission and elsewhere. This draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu on 14 November. The first reading took place in the Riigikogu on 23 November. No proposals were submitted by the deadline for the submission of amendments, by 10 a.m. on 5 December. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading at its meeting on 5 December and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. By continuing to participate in the peace-building mission of the KFOR, or Kosovo Force, Estonia is fulfilling its allied responsibilities arising from NATO membership. The aim of international forces and Estonia is to support the government of Kosovo in ensuring security and stability in the country. At its meeting on 16 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that when the first reading of the draft was completed, the draft would be placed on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu for a second reading. At its meeting on 5 December, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading, to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U88	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U89	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, would you mind reminding us how many of our soldiers are in Kosovo right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U90	This is a mission with three soldiers. Once there were 122 active troops, now this number has been reduced due to the stabilisation of the situation, and now there are three people on the mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U91	Thank you, Ain Lutsepp! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled to the draft 333. The Governing Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading and put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Kosovo, draft 333. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 333 and were not opposed or impartial. The decision of the Riigikogu "The extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the peace-building mission in Kosovo" has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U92	Our next item is the second reading of draft 335 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations'. The rapporteur on behalf of the National Defence Commission is Johannes Kert. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U93	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! For a bill of 335, I have the following to report. The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 14 November. The first reading also took place on 23 November. No proposals were submitted by the deadline for the submission of amendments, by 10 a.m. on 5 December. On a proposal from the language editor, the National Defence Committee made one linguistic clarification of the draft. In fact, there was an excessive comma in the text before the words 'the first contribution to it'. The text of the same sentence of the Riigikogu was valid until the end of this year. The representative of the Ministry of Defence supported this clarification of the Commission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading at its meeting on 5 December and approved the draft by consensus the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum. At first reading of the bill, the issue of the constitutional compatibility of the draft was raised in the Chamber. Paragraph 34 (4) of the National Defence Act provides the basis for the draft under discussion, according to which the Riigikogu, by decision, sets a limit for each year the number of active troops that may be involved in a military operation conducted for the purpose of maintaining or restoring peace or security, under the terms of Chapter VI or VII of the Charter of the United Nations, or any other international military operation in accordance with the generally accepted principles and standards of international law, to which contributions are made for the first time. Further use of the Defence Forces in the same operation will be decided in general terms on the basis of § 34 (1) of the National Defence Act. The decision of the Riigikogu valid until the end of this year is based on § 34 (4) and 61. I would remind you that, as a result of the decision taken by the Riigikogu at the time, the National Defence Committee initiated a parallel amendment to these provisions of the National Defence Act. The National Defence Committee then asked the Chancellor of Justice about the earlier version of § 34 of the National Defence Act, who, in his reply dated 3 February 2016, found the following: 'I am of the opinion that these rules do not conflict with the Constitution in the part you raised. § 128 (1) of the Constitution leaves the legislator discretion to determine the specific extent and form of the Parliament's decision to participate in the international operation of the Defence Forces. The solution chosen by the National Defence Act does not go beyond the limits of this discretion. If the Riigikogu considers it necessary to strengthen the control over the executive power, it will be able to amend these standards accordingly. ' The Riigikogu considered it necessary to increase the control of executive power, which is why the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs do not decide to participate in the military operation, but the Government of the Republic makes the decision, taking into account the position of the National Defence Committee. At its meeting on 5 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Riigikogu to conclude the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U94	Any questions for the waitress? Requested to present! Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U95	Mr President! Good waitress! I understand the bill doesn't say exactly where we're sending the men, but do we know how much we're sending?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U96	Yeah, we know there's 50 active troops on standby. This number may not necessarily be 50, it may be less, but not more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U97	Thank you, Johannes Kert! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. No amendments were tabled to the draft 335. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading and to conclude the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State by contributing to it for the first time in an international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations' 335. Please take a stand and vote. There were 64 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, with 7 abstentions. The decision of the Riigikogu 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State by contributing to it for the first time in an international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations' has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U98	Next is the second reading of Inherent Resolve's Bill 338 of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the international military operation. Marianne Mikko, waitress of the National Defence Committee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U99	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 14 November. The first reading was completed at the Riigikogu meeting on 23 November. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for tabling amendments, including 5 December at 10 a.m. One of the important objectives of this foreign mission is the training of Iraqi security forces. The draft includes a mandate for up to ten active troops. The Defence Forces contribute with up to six infantry instructors in Iraq, where they train Iraqi security forces in cooperation with members of the Defence Forces in Denmark, the United States, Latvia and other countries. Given the priority of the fight against ISIL or Daesh, Estonia is ready to contribute further to the operation if necessary and possible, for example, with staff officers. The additional number of active troops to be deployed would remain within the limit set out in the draft, which is ten. Thus, the Estonian active troops participate in the mandate of the Riigikogu, in particular with infantry instructors and staff officers. However, Estonian active troops do not participate in activities taking place within the framework of Operation Inherent Resolve on the territory of Syria, it is important to emphasise this. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft with the Ministry of Defence officials before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 5 December and approved the draft by consensus between the second reading text and the second reading explanatory memorandum. The National Defence Committee decided earlier, at its meeting on 16 November (including by consensus), that if the first reading was completed, the draft would be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including by 7 December. At its meeting on 5 December, the National Defence Committee decided again by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U100	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U101	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I understand it's possible for up to ten of our people to be there. Can you tell if there are any women among them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U102	This was not discussed directly by the National Defence Committee, which is why I am not able to answer it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U103	Thank you, Marianne Mikko! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. As we have heard, the Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the international military operation Inherent Resolve' draft 338. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft and 1 against, with no abstentions. The decision of the Riigikogu 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State during the international military operation Inherent Resolve' has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U104	Next is the second reading of draft 332 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in NATO' presented by the Government of the Republic. Ants Laaneots, waitress of the National Defence Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U105	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I recall that the content of the draft is authorised, if necessary, to use the contingent of up to 220 active troops of the Defence Forces from 1 January next year until 31 December 2017 as part of the NATO response forces under Chapters VI and VII of the UN Charter. NATO's international response force, made up of 40000 men, is the most important and, frankly, the only instrument in Europe today for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, if that is necessary. Therefore, participation in the NRF is also directly related to Estonia's security. A little explanation for where they take those 220 men. In the first reading, this question arose. The NRF is usually contributed on a sub-unit or unit basis. It is a unit that has been trained, co-educated and is able and prepared to go where the command from NRF headquarters commands at very short notice. The Defence Forces are planning to send a Scouts battalion company to carry out the task next year, which will receive the necessary reinforcement tools and logistical elements. The first reading of the draft was also held on 23 November. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 5 December at 10 a.m. The draft text has been made by the National Defence Committee in the interests of consistency of terminology with one technical specification. The text of the draft proposed by the Government of the Republic referred to the North Atlantic Organisation, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation being correct. Since 2008, the Riigikogu has used the abbreviations NATO and UN in its respective annual decisions, which is why the National Defence Committee decided to use the same wording in this draft. This technical specification is also in line with the title of the draft. Officials of the Ministry of Defence who took part in the meeting of the Commission on 5 December supported this clarification. At its meeting on 5 December, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft text and the explanatory memorandum at second reading. The committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U106	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Ants Laaneots! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled to the draft 332. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces', submitted by the Government of the Republic, draft 332. Please take a stand and vote. 73 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 332, no one opposed, no abstentions. The decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state within the NATO response forces" has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U107	Next, the second reading of the draft 334 of the Riigikogu's decision "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan." Ants Laaneots, waitress of the National Defence Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U108	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia will participate in the Resolute Support Mission from the beginning of 2005 when this mission was launched after the end of ISAF. Continuation of the mission and support for Afghan security forces remains crucial. By participating in this NATO mission, Estonia will continue to fulfil its allied obligations arising from NATO membership. Currently, there are four active troops in Afghanistan and they are responsible for Germany as a framework country in northern Afghanistan. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 5 December and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. The first reading of this draft was also held on 23 November. No proposals were submitted by the deadline for the submission of amendments, by 10 a.m. on 5 December. The National Defence Committee made a technical specification of the draft. In the text of the draft, the words 'advice' and 'training' were exchanged. This clarification is in line with the text of the title of the draft and the decision of the Riigikogu of 9 December 2015 in force until the end of this year. Officials of the Ministry of Defence who attended the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 5 December this year supported this clarification of the Commission. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U109	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Ants Laaneots! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. There were no amendments to draft 334 and the Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan, draft 334. Please take a stand and vote. There are 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 334 and there are no respondents or abstentions. The decision of the Riigikogu "The extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the training and counselling mission in Afghanistan' has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U110	Second reading of draft 331 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon' submitted by the Government of the Republic. The waitress of the National Defence Commission is Madis Milling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U111	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion was submitted by the Government, including on 14 November, with the first reading completed on 23 November. No proposal was submitted to the draft by the deadline for the submission of amendments, by 10 a.m. on 5 December. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 5 December and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. The text of the draft law was made by the National Defence Committee in the interests of consistency of terminology: in points 1 and 2, the word "Lebanon' is used as the country's name in the title, rather than the word "Lebanon Republic'. The draft decision of the Riigikogu in 336 titles and texts is also limited to Lebanon. The author supported this clarification of the National Defence Commission. According to the draft, Estonia, as a Member State of the United Nations, will contribute to peace in crisis areas. The majority of the Estonian unit is made up of a mechanized infantry team with a logistics element and staff officers, whose tasks include, for example, prevention, observation, patrolling, manning control posts and ensuring the security of UNIFIL observation mission in the same area. At its meeting on 5 December, the National Defence Committee supported the adoption of the draft by consensus, which is why we propose to the Riigikogu to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U112	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? I see it's not. I'll start negotiations if you want me to. I see there's no wish. No amendments were tabled to the draft and we will therefore begin the preparation of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon', as presented by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U113	Today's 12th item is the second reading of draft 336 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' presented by the Government of the Republic. Mr Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission, please present the Chair to the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U114	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The draft under discussion was submitted by the Government on 14 November. The first reading was closed on 23 November and no proposals were tabled by 5 December at 10 a.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 5 December and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. As a member of the UN, Estonia will continue to contribute to peace and stability in the UNTSO mission area. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 5 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to support the adoption of the draft, which is why we propose to the Riigikogu to adopt the draft as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U115	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'll open negotiations if that's what you want me to do. As the rapporteur said, no amendments to this draft were tabled. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 336 and to put it to a final vote. Let's start preparing for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the Estonian state's international obligations in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria', as presented by the Government of the Republic, draft 336. Please take a stand and vote. There are 54 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U116	Today's 13th item is the second reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extending the term of use of the Defence Forces and increasing the number of active troops in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia'. Mr Oudekki Loone, Member of the National Defence Commission of the Chair, for the presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic submitted this draft to the Riigikogu on 14 November. The first reading took place on 23 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was 5 December at 10 a.m. No amendments were tabled. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 5 December and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. The draft will also allow Estonia to continue to contribute to the EUNAVFOR Med EU Naval Force in the Mediterranean military mission next year. The objective of this European Union military mission is to prevent trafficking in human beings in the Central Mediterranean between Italy and Malta's territorial waters and Libya. Estonia has been participating in this military mission since August 2015 with an officer of the logistics staff. The mandate granted by the Riigikogu for 2016 was to allow up to two active members of the Defence Forces to participate. The draft proposal is to increase the number of active members of the Defence Forces to six by 2017. By participating in the mission, Estonia fulfils its European Union's allied responsibilities. At the meeting of the National Defence Committee on 5 December, officials of the Ministry of Defence presented the draft on the basis of questions raised at first reading. During the first-reading debate, it was asked and failed to respond that if a warship from a Member State of the European Union confiscates a ship of human smugglers flying the flag of another country, it could be considered a military conflict. In this case, it is not a search or capture of a warship flying the flag of another country, but a seizure of a civilian vessel. In some cases, they also drive without a state flag, and this is in any case a time of peace. In the case of a vessel with a state flag, first contact with the flag State shall be made in good faith and in accordance with all the rules in order to obtain authorisation for capture. The basis for combating the illegal activities of smugglers is given to the European Union warship UN Security Council Resolution 2240 and the mandate of the Council of the European Union. There is therefore a minimal possibility that the search, capture or confiscation of a human smuggler ship will become a military conflict. At its meeting on 5 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop second reading, to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U118	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thanks for the waitress! I'll open negotiations if I like. That's not what you want. As the rapporteur announced, no amendments to this draft decision have been tabled, so I say that the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft and to conclude the final vote. Let's start preparing for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces and increase the number of active troops in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia 337. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft 337 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U119	Discussion on the 14th item begins: Extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in the performance of the international duties of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the second reading of the Bill 339 on the United Nations Peacebuilding Mission in Mali. Mr Oudekki Loone, Member of the National Defence Commission of the Chair, for the presentation of the commission again.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic submitted this draft to the Riigikogu on 14 November. The first reading took place on 23 November. No amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline of 5 December at 10 a.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 5 December and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. According to point 1 of the draft, the term of use of the Estonian Defence Forces for EUTM Mali (European Union Training Mission in Mali) is extended. Estonia is contributing to this mission with the Defence Forces instructors, whose task is to provide military training to the Malian units. Staff officers involved in the training of Malian units and in the planning and consultation process will also contribute. As a Member State of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the European Union's common security and defence policy. The Mali mission is one of the most important missions of the European Union, with 23 European Union countries participating. According to point 2 of the draft, the participation of up to ten active members of the Estonian Defence Forces in the UN Peace Mission MINUSMA (United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in Mali) in Mali is extended. Next year, Estonia will contribute to MINUSMA with two staff officers and an observation and advisory team serving in ASFU, a Dutch-led multi-country target group. As a UN country, Estonia will certainly contribute to peace in the crisis area. It is in Estonia's interest to increase our participation and visibility in the UN. Thus, with its decision of 5 December 2016, the National Defence Committee proposes by consensus to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading, to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U121	Thank you, Oudekki Loone! Any questions for the waitress? Do you want to open negotiations? I see it's not. The rapporteur has already announced that no amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 339 and to put it to a final vote. Let's start preparing the vote. I am voting on the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic to extend the term for the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and in the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali, draft 339. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft 339 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U122	Ladies and gentlemen, The 15th item is the second reading of the Bill 302 on Amendments to Income Tax Act, Social Tax Act and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the commission, I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair's Chair, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U123	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start with a little bit of a different subject. This also applies to some extent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'm afraid I'm about to start a microphone phobia. Today I gave an interview to the BNS, where I explained in clear language that I wrote my resignation from the post of chairman of the special committee and did so in advance so that my dear colleague, Jürgen Ligi, would be the chairman of this committee next week. But no one knew I was randomly chairman of the two committees and published the news under the heading 'The Chairman of the Finance Commission resigns'. I don't know now, it's like I should apologize, but for what, I don't know. Colleagues always advise me to communicate more with the media, and that is now the result. Well, now the second reading of Bill 302. This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 28 September. The debate in preparation for the first reading of the draft was held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 13 October and the first reading on 19 October. The deadline for tabling amendments was 2 November. By this time, the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Jaanson, Kalvi Tõud and Viktor Vassilyev and the Estonian Free Party Group submitted amendments. However, at the meeting of the Committee on Finance on 5 December, colleagues Mr Vassilyev withdrew his amendments. The Steering Committee has prepared 12 amendments on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance. An extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was held on 2 December. In the first half of the session, the views of stakeholders on tax incentives for health promotion were heard. In fact, the main ways of this debate are quite factually present in the explanatory memorandum. But in order for everything to be recorded in our archives in the form of a verbatim, I will briefly introduce them. The proposal of the Estonian Association of Dentists at this meeting of the Commission was to add dental care to the list of exempted health expenses. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the purpose of the tax credit is to support the promotion of workers' health and active lifestyles. However, in order to support dental care, the Riigikogu is currently proposing to restore dental care benefits from 1 July next year. The Estonian Insurance Association found that the employer should be able to conclude a voluntary health insurance contract for the benefit of its employees. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the purpose of this draft is not to support voluntary health insurance, but to provide the employer with an opportunity to promote the health of workers. Members of the Commission felt that this was an idea that there was a reason to return. The representatives of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association were unable to attend the meeting, but they sent an opinion in which they clarified and reiterated their views. Their main points of view are as follows: The tax credit should be set for an indefinite period and the employer's reporting obligation and compulsory ex-post evaluation should be waived. They have quite a long text on subsection 1 (3) of the draft. This information was heard and the members of the Commission were also able to examine these proposals in writing. The Estonian Employers' Confederation is of the opinion that the exemption should be extended to all costs incurred by the employer for the health of workers. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the purpose of the amendment was to support preventive activities and thereby reduce the cost of the health care system. The purpose of the draft is not for the employer to be able to cover all costs related to the health or health promotion of the employee. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund drew attention to the following issues: In order to ensure the targeted use of services, the conditions for access to services must be well defined. Measures to control the price of services must be clearly defined. The representative of the Ministry of Finance considered that the number of sick days is not the only possible indicator for the assessment of the health status of the employee, but it should be borne in mind that specific and sufficiently accurate data are needed to assess the impact of the tax credit. The Ministry's representative also pointed out that the draft was based on the assumption that the change should lead to healthier workers in the future and that the expenditure of the social system should decrease. EVEA proposed to increase the amount of tax-free compensation to at least EUR 150 per quarter, i.e. to EUR 50 per month. A representative of the Ministry of Finance pointed out that the Finnish rate was taken as an example in setting the rate. It was also considered that health promotion is not merely an employer's responsibility. For this reason, the level has also been set with the assumption of the employee's contribution to the costs. Following a meeting with stakeholders on 2 December, the meeting continued in the Commission room with the participation of the Minister of Finance. Minister of Finance Sven Sester gave an overview of planned changes in tax laws. The next debate was held on 5 and 6 December by the Commission. A total of 21 amendments to the draft have been tabled. I will briefly present their content and the outcome of the debate. Amendment 1 amends the Income Tax Act. This means tax-free income reform: the tax-free rate will be EUR 500 per month, or EUR 6000 per year, up to an income of EUR 1200 per month, or EUR 14400 per year. Within the range of EUR 1200.2100 per month, the reduction is zero, the aggregation and adjustment are based on the income tax return. The additional tax-free income, pension and compensation for accidents at work are included in this EUR 500. The annulment of the provision on the common tax return also falls under this case. It shall enter into force on 1 January 2017, with effect from 2018. The new marginal interest rate on housing loans, 300 euros, is within the general ceiling (1200 euros for 2017). It will enter into force on 1 January next year, with effects starting from 2018. The exemption for interest on deposits shall be waived from 1 January 2018. The Committee on Finance decided to take this amendment fully into account, with 6 members in favour and 5 against. Amendment 2: The draft initially provided for an extension for equal treatment of persons entitled to income tax exemption for benefits and allowances paid in the event of the death or loss of capacity of a regular official, a deputy police officer, a volunteer rescuer and a person employed in an emergency situation. There was no contradiction in this committee, this amendment was adopted in a consensual manner. It was also decided to take full account of Amendment 3. The content of the proposal is that it corrects the error in the original text of the draft. It was a numerical mistake, a mistake, so there's nothing weird about it. Now I will present all the amendments of the Free Party, i.e. proposals 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. Their main content is as follows: Increase the quarterly tax credit for health promotion to EUR 200 per employee instead of the current EUR 100. Extend the scope of the special advantage to health care expenditure with an own contribution of more than 75%, to the costs of ownership of medicinal products, to the costs of supplementary voluntary health insurance and to other costs reasonably incurred to promote or treat the health of the worker. Introduce health promotion tax credit provisions for an indefinite period and enforce the amendment on 1 January 2017 instead of 2018. I will now name these amendments and announce the outcome of the vote in committee. Amendment 4 was accepted by 1 Member of the Commission and 7 was rejected. Amendment 7 had 3 votes in favour and 6 against, with 1 abstention, and was rejected. Amendment 8 had 3 votes in favour and 6 against, with 1 abstention, and was rejected. Amendment 9 had 3 votes in favour and 7 against, no one abstained; it was decided not to take account of it. Amendment 10 had 3 members in favour and 7 was rejected. Amendment 11 had 2 votes in favour and 6 against, with 1 abstention, and was rejected. The 12th amendment had 3 votes in favour and 6 against, with 1 abstention, and was rejected. Amendment 13 was also rejected, with 3 Commission members in favour and 7 against. Amendment 5 clarifies the wording of the draft in such a way as to make it clear that the employer is obliged to allow health promotion activities for all workers to benefit from the tax credit. It was decided to take this into account in full, with 8 votes in favour and 1 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 6 was tabled by my colleague, Jüri Jaanson, who wishes to complement the choices of non-tax special advantages for income and social security by investing in a public sports establishment free of charge or supporting its maintenance costs. The decision was rejected, with 2 Commission members in favour and 6 against, with 2 abstentions. Amendment 14 complements the draft with § 3 and provides for the amendment of the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws. The most important changes in this respect are the abolition of the social tax rate, the doubling of the excise duty rate for beer and cider for 2018, the increase in the excise duty rate for wine by 20%, the two-year deferral of the increase in excise duty rates for alcohol, i.e. they will apply from 1 February 2017 and 2018, the abolition of the increase in excise duty rates for special-purpose diesel and light fuel oil in 2018 and the abolition of the increase in VAT for accommodation establishments. There was a dialogue in the Commission, because some Members of the Commission would have liked to support some provisions and some would not have wanted to support them, but a decision had to be taken on this whole proposal. It was decided to take this proposal fully into account, with 6 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. Amendment 15 complements the draft with § 4 and provides for an amendment to the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act. The main thing here is that the small producer's production volume will be increased from 3000 hectolitres to 6000 hectolitres and the tax overrun will be revised during the year. The timing of the increase in excise duties on fuel is in here; this increase will take effect from 1 February 2017. The rate of excise duty on natural gas will be increased by 25% in three years, from 2018 to 2022. The package on the harmonisation of excise duties on gaseous fuels is in force from 1 July 2017, anti-fraud measures are in force at the same time. We are obliged to produce liquid combustibles in excise warehouses and tax heavy fuel oils similar to diesel with excise duties on diesel. The decision was to take full account of this proposal, with 7 Commission members in favour and 3 against. Amendment 16 amends the provisions of the Act amending the VAT Act, which has not yet entered into force, with a reference to the 14% VAT rate for accommodation establishments. It was supported by six members of the Commission, one against and no abstentions. So it was fully accounted for. Amendment 17 was adopted in a consensual manner. It complements the draft with § 6 and provides for the amendment of the Tax Administration Act. As a result of the repeal of Chapter 41 of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, the provisions of the Tax Organisation Act, which provide, among the functions of the tax authorities, for the annual repayment of persons working on low incomes and for the registration of persons in the register of taxable persons, must also be repealed. As I said, it was a consensual decision. Amendment 18 was also supported in a consensual manner and fully taken into account. It complements the draft with § 7 and provides for the amendment of the Family Benefits Act. The amendment increases the allowance for a family rich in children paid to a family raising three to six children to EUR 300 and to EUR 400 for a family raising seven and more children. May I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U124	This is possible under § 67 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. How much do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U125	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U126	Okay, five more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U127	Thank you. There was, of course, a consensus, Amendment 18. Amendment 19 complements § 8 of the draft, amends the State Fees Act and introduces the registration fee for vehicles at the time of first registration and for each change of ownership. This proposal has been fully taken into account, with 6 votes in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 20. The bill complements § 9 and amends the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act in connection with the exponential increase in tax-free income from the following year. The amendment repeals Chapter 41 of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, which provides for a set of rules for the annual reimbursement of low-income earners. You can apply for a refund once, in 2017. This proposal was fully taken into account, with 10 Commission members in favour, no one opposed and one abstention. The last amendment, Amendment 21, provides for amendments to the entry into force provisions. This has been fully taken into account, with 6 Commission members in favour and 5 against. The Steering Committee made the following decisions and proposals: The Committee on Finance decided to propose that the second reading of the draft be suspended (this was a consensual decision) and to propose that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 16 a.m. on Friday 9 December. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour of the last decision and 5 members of the Commission opposed it. Since I have a few more minutes and I'm not used to reporting the bill so dry, I want to bring you a parallel. In 1502, there was such a case in Florence that this city bought itself a huge and expensive marble block because they wanted to build a statue on the square somewhere. But the artist who was put into this job didn't know the right thing. He made a hole in the base somewhere, and after that, it was admitted that this block would no longer be of any use. But Michelangelo's friends invited him in. He felt sorry for the great and magnificent stone so that he made it into David's image. Based on the way this statue stands, the hole that was first made there is predictable. I mean, there's nothing that can be ruined once and for all. Legislation has also been very one-sided in recent years and has turned our backs on the common man, but now we are going to fix it. We will start this work with Bill 302. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U128	Thank you very much for a very thorough explanation of what happened in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. These last lines, however, must have been more part of the subject of negotiations. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! The amendments tabled to this draft law raise a great many substantive questions. Unfortunately, I have to start in uniform. In general, it is good practice that when a draft, amendment or amendment is discussed, the authors of those acts or amendments are also invited. I have tabled an amendment to this draft law on sport, but now I see that it has been discussed without me. In the Committee on Social Affairs, for example, and in other committees, I hear it is good practice to invite these people. Is that not the case in your committee? If my colleague Andres Herkel gave Jüri Ratas a yellow card for processing the bill, I would probably give you a yellow card right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U130	Thank you for your question. My life's been getting pretty weird lately. All I'm doing is apologizing, sorry and sorry. I didn't even know if you were invited or not. When I didn't see you, I decided that you had something more important ahead of you, but since I'm in charge of this job and I'm in charge of it, I'm really sorry about not inviting you. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U131	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! This draft has now been turned upside down by the amendments, and there may be quite a lot of substantive questions and reproach here. There are ten or more of these issues. In other words, I would like to ask a few dozen questions and I would like to put them to the Minister, not to you. But I'll stick to the shape too. The Centre Party has previously criticised the cluster bill very strongly, it was last year. Now, what is the difference between this cobar amendment, which has been included in this draft, such as the jacket sewn to the button, and the 2015 cluster bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U133	Thank you for your question, Mr Andres. In fact, the reason is quite simple. It is usually the case that elections are held in March and in April a new government will take office, which will develop a coalition agreement. There are provisions inside that require a change of laws, and usually there is an incredible amount of time, nine months. This will allow the next year to start with a budget that is already in line with the ideology, outlook of the new government, etc. But unfortunately, we don't have that time. We can't afford this as a coalition. Now the coalition has changed, the Reform Party has left it, the Central Party has returned. There is a coalition agreement with clear priorities within it. We have big plans. Support for agriculture, as it will be in the near future, has not yet been seen by Estonia. There are very beautiful investment projects and there is much to do with the organisation of education, the salaries of teachers. Should we refuse all this in order to keep the priorities of the Reform Party in the law? Yeah, I don't have a chance to praise the cluster law. We have always resisted it, since some funny law was added to something that had to do with voting in the City Council of Tallinn. Today, the Minister of Finance said that thank God it is not a law of artificial insemination, then it would be worse, thank God, that it is a law of amendment of the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act, which was actually also adopted as a cluster law in June last year. It's a sin, and it's a certain guilt here, but we really don't have any other way to do it. I am not going to remind you of what and how many cluster laws have been adopted here, when something needs to be changed very quickly. I'm like a real member of a coalition in a situation where I just don't see any other way. Do whatever you want, I don't like cluster laws, but there's no other way out. Sometimes, as life shows, you have to do what you don't like, for example, you have to stand here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U134	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U135	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! The new coalition may indeed be forgiven for a few sins, but for me, too, there is a border somewhere. I can understand the cluster law, but not the cluster proposal. At yesterday's committee meeting, for example, I did not vote on one proposal in principle, because I could not find a solution within myself as to how, in a single vote, I could express an attitude towards the reduction of social tax and the cancellation of the increase in VAT on accommodation establishments and a decisive increase in excise duty on beer. I would like to vote these things differently. Why has the coalition put us in a position where we really cannot vote on any of the proposals if we want to be honest with ourselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U136	Thank you for your question. It's never been a problem for me, too. Look, this reminds me of a case in history. I don't know if you've heard it or not. It's about building a hotel in Moscow with the same name. This was supposed to be the first Soviet super hotel. Two facade projects were brought to Stalin to pick one. But they were presented in such a way that one of the facade projects took over half the page and the second project started exactly halfway. There was a line between them. The dictator didn't know how to do anything smarter than put his signature and the word utvergeju or 'confirm' right on this line. No one could figure out which facade he had chosen after that. The consequence was that the hotel was built with two facades. By the way, three years ago, this hotel was broken down and rebuilt, but it was done in its historical form, with two facades. It's a completely different situation, isn't it? But you'll have this experience sooner or later. God forbid it would come to the Free Party. I was in opposition for five and a half years, I've been in opposition before. Then I was free to choose. I told my colleagues that, as much as I supported today, the drafts that were voted on, I never supported them when I was in the opposition. But now I'm talking about when you're in a coalition and you're going somewhere in a trial-free week. Last week I started to like it so much. I went to three kindergartens and met five or six national cultural associations. I explained to them the mechanism for tax-free income increases. During the years I was in the opposition, I could not do anything more for these people than promised the roof money granted by the Reform Party, could give EUR 5 000-6000 for the repair of some kindergarten kitchens or new furniture in some school classes. It was not possible to do more. And now people sitting at 700 euros suddenly get more than a month's pay off. In order to be able to do so, in order for the salaries of the intellectuals to be 120% of the average salary and to be able to do a lot more, didn't we, we put forward this bill? That's what being in coalition means. There's nothing we can do about it. I have to support it, the coalition supports me, and I support the coalition. It doesn't mean anything else. By the way, I really hope that someday we'll be in the coalition with you, too, because I mostly like your reasonings. As far as it's possible to develop cooperation here, I'll do it when it's up to me. Just like I did on the special committee. But right now we don't have a choice, but you... Well, what can I say here, it's life!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U137	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In fact, I could have been the waitress for this draft that we are discussing here, because before you, I was the person responsible for the draft, and the procedure went smoothly. We met interest groups on Friday, discussed health promotion issues thoroughly, and then this sudden change came. But, of course, there are so many questions about what came here unexpectedly, that the current format of the debate simply does not allow them to be presented. Besides, I would like to ask questions not to you, but to the minister who prepared these changes. But I ask you this: would you still explain why it is necessary to abolish joint tax returns and so quickly, from 1 January 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U139	This is a proposal from the Treasury Department, and that means it is a proposal from the Coalition. We've been over this. At present, there is a tax exemption of EUR 170, with a tax exemption of EUR 190 in two years' time, which would amount to EUR 380 for two people in employment. But we're supposed to, well, 500. In fact, there are few cases when a person loses something because of our changes. According to the Ministry of Finance, 86% of people are among those who benefit from the increase in income tax exemption. I deeply respect you, and I apologize for not saying before that one decision was made and Aivar Sõerd was replaced by me. I'm not an economist, I'm not an expert in finance. Although, who's the expert? An expert is every person not from this territory, isn't he? So as a Narva person, I can play a completely expert game. But what can I say here? We need to repeat more or less what I said in reply to the previous question. I promise you that I will speak to the Minister of Finance and see if he has a wish, if we interrupt the second reading today, to come to this remote control next time. I think this bill is important enough to make a positive decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U140	Remo Holsmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U141	Thank you. There really is so much wrong with this bill that I can't even count them all. The draft special preferential tax on sport is now being transformed into a bill to introduce car taxes and raise social taxes and excise duties. These principles, which have been in force in the Republic of Estonia at law level, that tax changes are made at six months' notice, are somehow completely neglected. I certainly do not agree with your position that there is no time or any other option. You're in some kind of coercion, you have to run like a horse with flaps to get to the finish line. That is certainly not a justification for breaking the law. My question is: how do you justify all these tax changes to business organisations and why they have been made so quickly? If you say in this Chamber that this is a political decision, then of course it is clear, but please justify the speed of these changes to business organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U142	Thank you for your question. I always have a problem when I basically have to repeat the same text several times. You say a lot of things are wrong. You know, there's a saying that the length of a minute depends on which side of the toilet you're standing on. On the one hand, it seems that time is going a little faster, on the other hand, it seems a little slower. So if you think something is wrong, then we feel that one or the other solution is quite correct. As far as businesses are concerned, I will give an example of today's meeting with the Minister of Finance. He was asked a lot of questions, including about gas. I illustrate my point by saying that the current Income Tax Act was adopted in 1999 and entered into force in 2000. During this time, it has been fixed 102 times. This means that the legislative process is a very lively process: 102 times in 16 years, on average six times a year, it is a very high figure. There's nothing final, there's always a way to make decisions. The Minister of Finance, as we understand today, would really like to find another source of revenue for one thing or another. He's already had this opportunity since January. We will continue to work with the associations of these companies; we will certainly continue to do this work. Now, however, some methods and options needed to be chosen quite quickly, and they were decided. If there's a better chance, we'll use it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U143	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This is indeed an incredibly powerful package of cluster proposals, from which it is very difficult to choose one thing or another in order to start asking about it separately here. But I'm still asking. The possibility of submitting a joint declaration shall be abolished. This is justified again by an increase in tax-free income. But has it been discussed that losing the joint declaration is also a social message? After all, we take the opportunity for people to decide whether they will present it together as a family. Have there ever been a chance to discuss the social messages it sends?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U145	No. I would say that we barely had time to discuss purely economic issues. I would add that allowing a joint declaration is not a general practice. Among our closest neighbours, joint declarations are not permitted, for example, by Finland, Sweden or Lithuania. This experience exists, so perhaps it has not been given sufficient attention. However, if any third sector organisation that deals with social issues brings this matter to our attention, we will certainly be discussing it. I would like to add that, at tomorrow's committee meeting, I will propose and I hope that the Commission agrees with this, that next week we will discuss matters with those who have already made proposals or are still proposing proposals by Friday. We will certainly do this debate. My experience from special committee times tells me that the more you meet people and talk to them, the more useful it will be because this knowledge is needed in life. So these nuances should also be taken into account. If there's a need, we'll discuss these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U146	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U147	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have this concern: does the Committee on Monetary Affairs deliberately want to undermine the quality of the work of non-members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs? It is not possible to make an adequate assessment of such a cluster solution in one night. It is also a concern that these proposals contained in the cluster bill may be contrary to other laws. Even the subject of the same joint declaration is at odds with the idea of family law, which clearly states that spouses manage joint property together. Would it not have been reasonable on Monday when, in the large Chamber, an extension of the agenda was discussed so that the Commission would have taken this issue out of today's agenda? Members of the Riigikogu who are not members of the Monetary Committee have not had enough time to examine the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U148	Thank you for that question. Strangely enough, we were discussing exactly the same subject in a smoke room (we have two more smoke rooms here). My argument was that I still regret the need for such a cluster law, but this law helps the coalition to speed up its policy, or rather, basically, it allows it to go ahead. If it does not apply now, then it will simply be impossible to have the desired effects next year. But I ask you who you feel more responsible to, either your colleagues sitting in this Chamber or your constituents. For example, it has been easy and good for me to talk about it here, either from the remote or from the table, because I feel responsible for the people who have chosen me and supported my party. I think you have exactly the same feelings. The question now is whether, in order to support these people and to do all the good that is in the coalition agreement for them, I must stand on my own and accept certain things. Once again, this is already unknown on several occasions today, that cluster laws should not be a normal practice. But this lack of time... I could talk about the fact that we could actually be pretty much all right with this bill. Two weeks before the former prime minister resigned, he knew there was going to be a motion of mistrust. He could have taken a statesmanly step and given the Riigikogu the opportunity to extend the discussion of this draft to the maximum or as far as possible. But he didn't, he dragged it all out. So we live in the conditions we live in, and sometimes you have to move the stones. If I may, I'll explain the expression. I'm sure you know the battle of the Marathon. The story was that when the Persians arrived, Greece put out its troops. Some witches were invited (I only know how they have been called in Russian). They were asked whose side is the happiness of war. They said, "If you are in the land of Athens, you will win, but if you are in the land of Kórinthus, you will lose. " By chance, they were in the land of Kórinthos, but the border stones were next to them. And then what was done? They didn't change the battlefield. They moved the stones. And then they were in the land of Athens, and the warriors went into battle in a different mood. There's something like that right now. We have to move these stones sometimes, that's a historical experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U149	Thank you. That last answer was strange. My colleague asked a very substantive question, even referring to one law, but you began to raise the issue. You can't really do that. You are now chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and you should be very much in favour of substantive debates. If I have initiated them in the Commission, for example, freshly during the procedure on this draft, you have wondered and wanted to establish a rule for how long it is possible to discuss a point. But I wasn't stalling, but I really am burning out of desire for substantive debates, and I've wanted to initiate them. There are some very strange things about this bill. One is indeed this abolition of joint declarations. A completely incredible anti-family measure! Secondly, the car tax, which is in the form of a fee, simply to avoid the word 'tax', as if the registration was the issuer of CO2 that must be punished. Every time it's an option, you talk about climate. But you have a big responsibility right now. Does it bother you personally, too, that you have become the leader of such a gross violation of the procedure? It's not a common cluster bill, it's not a normal rush. In the history of the Riigikogu, it has never been the case that there are no coordination circles, that all deadlines are violated, and that which has been declared an error is returned to the proceedings. I mean, stitching that jacket on the button. We got over it a long time ago, but you're gonna bring it back in the worst way. Are you personally a little worried?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U150	Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U151	Thank you for your question. I'm concerned, but not because of what you described here. I respect you very much, you are a unique person in Estonian politics who knows everything about at least four areas, including finance. I therefore listen to you very carefully. But I remember well when you were in the last term, when I was a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and you were the Minister of Finance, you said that you did not really want to explain anything. It was very fun at the time, and it is also very fun to remember it. I thought it sounded pretty weird back then, but right now, I understand that what is promised to you is not allowed to anyone else. Just a few days ago, we recalled a revision of the tax law. What's it like again? Its second reading took place 40 minutes after the first or third 40 minutes after the second. But I'm gonna find out all these cases. Personally, I didn't want to remember the old stuff. [[???Vahelehüüe: 'Kolmas peale teist.'???]] The third after the other, like that. It's normal, 40 minutes apart, it's perfectly normal! Let's find them, make a table, remember how it went. Once again, I am not the one who sets these conditions. If you've ever held a hammer, Jürgen, you know perfectly well that I am the hammer. I have a responsibility to the coalition. I did not really want to be chairman of this committee, but that is how the coalition and the group decided and made it my responsibility. The coalition has to complete its program, and I will. Here to embarrass me... I can try and maybe blush, but how does that help this debate? I do not know whether the goal is to repeat a hundred times that nobody likes cluster medicines, or whether it has to be said that there are situations where it is simply not possible and it is not up to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U152	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly possible to bring together a comment and a question in this Chamber. But this cluster approach, if I may say so, should fit in one minute. I wouldn't be happy to use that bell, but sometimes I have to. Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on saying that, in the debate on such an important draft, apart from the fact that the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is holding a speech and answering questions, we should have the Minister for Finance before us. It's very much appreciated. Let's hope the minister comes here. Two amendments were tabled by the Free Party Group. One was on the costs exempted from the special preferential tax on the health of workers. The second was that the possibility of an exemption could be extended, which is currently very limited. The Estonian Employers' Confederation has also proposed the same thing. Please state specifically the reasons why you did not wish to extend this list. This draft has been made by the previous coalition, and now it would have been a good opportunity to correct their mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U154	Thank you. To be honest, I have to admit I didn't have time to get so into it. I know that there is a draft of the Free Party and the Commission staff is currently investigating whether it is possible to merge the drafts. If time limits allow, we will try to do so. Once in this Chamber, the drafts were quite often merged, which requires further reading to be possible in the current situation. But I have to say that I support cooperation with opposition parties. What else would I pay if I've been talking here for five years about the fact that everyone sitting in this room deserves this cooperation. I say again: lack of time, lack of time. This lack of time is so cruel that, for example, when one minister resigned, I learned from this very Jürgen on the Commission, right? I just didn't know about it. All of today's news has passed me too, and all of a sudden everyone started to ask me if I was going to step down or something like that. There's just no time. It's like a big rock to me that was put on my back. I'm a philologist, I still do textbooks, books, dictionaries, etc. For me, finance is not only an unknown sphere; it is not very interesting to me either. However, as chairman of the committee, I have other functions, and according to our Home and Working Procedures Act, I organise and manage the work of the committee. I have the goals to achieve, let's be honest. If I can at all agree and support one or another of the proposals of the Free Party or the EKRE to become a law or a legal provision, I will do so in the future. I don't see another way for me. But at the moment, I want to remind you once again that the lack of time is enormous. I haven't had a life in the last ten days.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U155	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U156	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, my deepest condolences to you, Mr. Chairman, that you have had to sacrifice your life and accept this responsible position to follow the orders of the coalition. But that's not the point. The main part of this cluster bill is, in fact, the reversal of VAT changes for accommodation establishments. Last Friday evening, perhaps many people in this hall missed the news section, where several hotel owners announced that they would probably not be able to change the price policy for next year and that they had already taken into account the planned increase in VAT. So how do you treat this gift to this business sector? They do not really need to reverse the rise in VAT. They have even pointed out that such changes could be announced six months in advance. Why don't you just make the VAT higher, 14%, and half a year after the product back to 9% to meet their wishes and not give it to them, at the expense of all the other sectors?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U157	Thank you for your question. I'll say two things right from the start, then I'll come to that. Point one. Look, you're asking a question, and our regulation states that you have 60 seconds to do so. But the rules aren't for you. If you're in power, there are no rules for you, but as soon as you're out of power, the rules suddenly become the law. Appreciate it any way you want, it may be a matter of discipline, but 60 seconds is 60 seconds. Our city secretary from Narva, Ants Liimets, has said, 'I often quote him 'that if a person doesn't get any idea formulated in a minute, what do you want from him?' [[???Vahelehüüe: 'Jama vastus!'???]] Point two. Do I follow orders? I'm not following orders. My signature is under the coalition treaty at a surprisingly high fourth place. I'm proud that I've signed this coalition treaty, and I'm doing what I've taken on. As far as tourism is concerned, there are companies that work with a large number of very rich customers, such as Tallinn or Pärnu, but there are also tourist farms and small inns, which are in a completely different situation. For example, in order to survive, Narva-Jõesuu spals are needed to keep the same 9%, not 14%. As for the fact that someone gets more income... You know, you don't like me to illustrate my answers, but I'm still saying that once, in the 12th century, a sentence was used to kill everyone, God knows his own. There is no way forward with this principle. We'd rather save everyone, guaranteed. If anyone gets extra money, he'll be happy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U158	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U159	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Dear waitress, One issue that colleagues have already asked about or touched on is the Commission's work on the proposals for improvement. It's not about the ministry, it's about our own organisation. The Commission has put all the conceivable proposals for improvement under one point. Perhaps under item 2, both the abolition of the joint declaration of spouses and the change in the rate of the income tax exemption are included. I have the same problem as Andres Herkel. I do not know how I will vote if I want to vote in favour of one motion and against the other. But my question is about another opera. In this very hall, your party associates spoke out very strongly, not more than a month ago, against the border trade accompanying the increase in alcohol excise duty, the mispredicted tax receipts and the tax revenue moving to Latvia. Has all this changed because the parties in the government have changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U160	Thank you for your question. There are topics that are formulated differently in different situations. There's nothing we can do about it. The same Reform Party that is fighting right now is repeating exactly our path. To avoid such a situation, only one thing is needed: that the Reform Party and the Centre Party are in a union with each other. But that is absolutely impossible. [[In the diner.]] That is absolutely impossible. Besides, the Reform Party should rest for a while, for too long he has been here in slavery to this country and to the government. Border trade exists at every border; it exists within and outside the European Union. It's an inevitable process. Do what you want, but some things are cheaper on one side of the border and more expensive on the other side and vice versa. This cannot be avoided. I think such a debate may have taken place, but I certainly did not take part in it. Personally, I think that border trade is beneficial for the people who live along the border. I'm from Narva myself. The border makes the lives of people there very uncomfortable at certain moments. There's got to be a plus, whether it's a chance to get a cheaper petrol once a month, I'm not talking about myself, but just a narcissistic beer or Valka's cheaper beer. Although petrol is healthier than beer, there is nothing to argue about. Yeah, times change and, no matter what, we have to make choices. Martin, I am happy to tell you a story about how the potato peel was eaten in Narva in 1993, well, the promise was fulfilled that it would be accepted in the name of freedom. This hall has probably heard this story before.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U161	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U162	Thank you. I would like to ask you a question about alcohol duty or, more generally, about coalition alcohol policy. However, since I could not be present at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for the debate on the amendment that I tabled, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided not to take this proposal into account, that is my question. My proposal provided for the non-taxation of sport investments by employers in public infrastructure and the maintenance costs of these infrastructures as a special advantage. What are the arguments on the basis of which the Committee on Monetary Affairs considered it impossible to take this into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U163	Thank you for your question. I have two answers for you. One is completely official. In fact, there are no sources of cover in the state budget. But the second answer is unofficial. I think that somewhere inside everyone who was present on the Commission reminded me that you were just in the government, and you had the opportunity to do so while you were in the government coalition. Your party had a Prime Minister's seat, you had your own ministers, you had the chance to do this over the last few years, you don't know how many times. I don't mean to be malicious under any circumstances, but you realize that this is the nature of a person and that it cannot be changed. In time, at least in the next budget discussions, your good wishes will bounce just against being asked why you didn't do it when you were in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I want to congratulate you on saying that you don't like what you're doing. But the substantive answers tend to be very, very thin, even on the issue of border trade, which the Centre Party has highlighted so acutely in the past. You're a philologist. I ask why so much linguistic juggling is involved in these amendments. Why, instead of honestly saying that we are making a car tax, are we talking about some sort of transaction fee? Why is graduated income tax referred to as non-statutory income tax because it is a step-by-step exclusion of the tax-free minimum? Why do we have to suffer this George Orwell newspeak in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U165	Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U166	Thank you. I understand that's an eternal question. If there are any doubts about what we have been talking about and what we are doing now, then look, border trade is one thing nobody can do anyway. That's why they talk about it quite often. This alcohol that goes outside is a rather small part of the amount that we produce. Now for this bill. I don't formally like it, but I've explained why it's needed. In essence, I like this bill very much. It serves immensely good purposes. To be a little gentler, imagine yourself in our place. Imagine that you are in a situation where one month, actually two weeks of work, will be left until the end of the session, you will be able to do everything you have promised for your constituents, and that will only depend on whether you come here with a cluster bill or not. I think your choice would be one: you would do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U167	Thank you! Good waitress! I listened to your answers, and I'm gonna stick to the formal side. If we look back in time, we can see that in many ways you have now responded very well to your previous questions in this Chamber. In which case are you sincere, were you sincere when you were in opposition and asked these questions, or are you sincere today when you answer questions, or is it that you are sincere in both cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U168	Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U169	Thank you for your question. I have a very good opportunity to be completely sincere. Yes, the cluster bill has been a problem, but you can review all the verbatim reports and you will see that I have not spoken specifically on this subject. I'm from the mayor's background, and I know that in certain situations you need to have the opportunity to take some original step away from the stereotype. Not always does everyone next to you have to like it, but it is often necessary to make these decisions. I didn't just say at the beginning that I wasn't going to give these examples. I didn't intentionally start picking them out, just to blame here, to look, you've done it, you've done it, you've done it, you've done it, and so on. You did, you did, and then you told me everything was normal. Well, it's life. I do not know how many times I repeat here today: life requires us to act quickly in certain situations, if there is no other way, then we will act as we can, and that is it. But I'm going to tell you exactly: I know exactly what I've been doing here. I didn't like the cluster bill, but I didn't see a reason to come here and start criticizing anyone. Municipalities happen, you know, not just like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U170	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stalnukhin, I listened to you and asked you this way. Taxes are known to have a dual effect: one has a profitable effect and the other has a behavioural effect. I read these amendments, but I did not find any impact assessments. How, then, are such major and extensive changes being made, but there is no impact analysis? I'm afraid the end result may be one very big mess and quite something else than you, the coalition and the government, are waiting. Are you afraid of that yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U172	Thank you. Everything happens in life. To say that everything is 100 percent nice and happens exactly like this and this law is perfect... I'd be the last idiot to say that here. As I have already told you, the Income Tax Act has been amended 102 times. Why didn't they get those who were in this hall in 1999 -- probably me to adopt the perfect law that would have been in force after 16 years? The Social Tax Act has been amended 62 times in the same period. There's nothing perfect. Speaking of your last field of work, I think you can't even imagine how you're gonna talk to teachers when they get another new curriculum. Why wasn't it done once and for all in the 1990s so that we could work on it? Why do we have to make changes every two or three years that make teachers do huge paperwork again? This percentage of error exists in each area. Impact analyses have certainly been carried out at the Ministry of Finance on one thing or another. That is a very important question. The staff representative of the Committee on Finance sits here and now writes that maximum impact assessments on these issues should be asked. That's what we do and see. But mistakes are inevitable. It's not just the one who doesn't work that's wrong. My experience in the council shows that 10% or 20% of the projects you're making up will be carried out. In local governments, this is even a good result. This is where we're trying to make a bigger one. But as far as impact assessments are concerned, as I said, I will talk to the Minister of Finance. Hopefully he will be able to come here next Wednesday and take with him the impact analyses that exist. I believe they exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U173	Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U174	Thank you. Firstly, I would, of course, like to express my condolences to you, Mr Stalnukhin, that you must do a job for which you do not have any preparation and any motivation. I can't even recall from the history of the Riigikogu that a commission manager would have felt so bad doing his job. I'm sure it's stressful. At the same time, I do not believe that my supporters and Estonian taxpayers at all care much about your personal tragedy, because they will eventually pay for this and also the mistakes that are being made in a hurry. I think that your personal difficulties could now be overlooked and given substantive answers that matter to the people who will live in this new lawroom. You claim there is no alternative to these changes. Yes, it is. There is no point in spending until the revenue side is clear. But my particular question is car tax. How will it work, and why have transactions been taxed? The aim is more environmentally friendly cars, but also those buying and selling transactions that are certainly not conducive to obtaining environmentally friendly cars have been taxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U175	Thank you. You said a few words about my attitude. That's what happens every time you try to be honest. You can't be honest with me. You must always be told something you're willing to listen to. You don't want to hear an honest speech. You were talking about love. I love my wife, my children and my dog. I don't have to love any profession, I just have to do my job. It doesn't take love. I've been doing these duties for the rest of my life. You like one class or another or you don't like it, you gotta go to class and give up your class. Every teacher tells you that sometimes it's like forced labour. Everyone is in exactly the same situation. You don't think anyone loves to clean or build anything in the rain or snow, but it's his job, it needs to be done, and he's gonna do it. I assure you, it's my job, and I will. That's it. I'm not talking about emotion anymore. As regards the registration fee for motor vehicles, I would like to inform you that the Estonian car park is the most polluting in Europe. Today, more than 90% of greenhouse gas emissions in Estonia are due to the burning of fuel in road transport. Making transport more sustainable and reducing CO2 emissions are indispensable. We have to do this sooner or later. I would point out that this does not concern the vehicles involved in production: tractors, buses, large trucks weighing more than three and a half tonnes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U176	Ladies and gentlemen, What is certain is that it would be better if there were less personal and more general in this Chamber. But to be honest, if there is a personal moment in the matter, it is relatively difficult to assume that this is not the answer. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U177	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! There is a personal moment in my question, too, but it is positive. Unlike some colleagues, dear waitress, I must say that I like your answers, at least most of them. It would be fairer if there were a Minister of Finance standing on that board, but for a year and a half, having heard his beautiful general and general answers, I might like less competent, but sincere and honest answers more. My question, however, is motivated by an explanation you gave five or six minutes ago. I'll ask for further details. Do you really think this is a measure of purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U178	Thank you. I told you about it at first, and you heard the answer. I don't know who the voters are, what kind of income they are, but people with 700, 800 or 900 euros of income usually take part in my conversation circles. All this time, all these five years when I was in opposition, I didn't have a chance to do anything for them, to improve their situation. The possibility of improving their situation was not provided for in the previous coalition agreement, nor was it possible to make it easier for people to live. And now, all of a sudden, the odds have arisen. I do not know how the municipality of Ida-Virumaa should make an effort to increase salaries by 8 to 10%. That would be absolutely unbelievable. How do we do this, when everyone lives in virtually zero, when credit is all taken out, and co-financing for European projects is hugely difficult to find, because this budget that comes to the city council is somehow regulated by 2%, not more, 97%, 98% or 99%, already stuck in some spheres? And all of a sudden, what happens is that I can tell these people that not yet next year, but still in 2018, the tax-free limit is so high that they get almost one more pay off. It's amazing. For a few weeks, I drive here with Valeri Korb, sometimes I come in the car with my husband, but half the rides I take the bus. When I leave Narva, I see who's sitting on that bus. Tickets have usually been bought in the past, but half of the people on the bus go to work in Finland either via Tallinn or Tallinn, and half are elderly people who travel to the hospital. As for the men who drive to work, a separate opera is what should be done to make them work in Estonia and pay taxes here. Those people who go to the hospital have low incomes. The drugs are expensive, and, for God's sake, maybe we should go to a pay-per-view, and then there's the price of the bus ticket. It is often not necessary to go to Kohtla-Järve Puru Hospital, but to go to Tallinn or Tartu. This topic is not particularly relevant to Tallinn and Tartu, but according to the coalition agreement, there is at least a free way to travel to Kohtla-Järve, because it is a transport within the county. I suddenly had this opportunity. There's nothing to be done, it's really much more than all the things I've been able to do here before. That's how I appreciate it. 14 laws were passed in the IX Riigikogu, where I was signed, but their economic impact on the life of my region or on the life of Estonia was something else. These were humanitarian laws, touched on the language, in a sense human rights. This particular opportunity has now arisen. Once again, I don't want to settle in the coalition's frame. When I see that there is a desire to cooperate, I will do everything I can to develop this cooperation. I will answer your question briefly once again. Yeah, it's worth it, because it's finally possible to do something.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U179	Please, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U180	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I recently went to Antsla and talked to local shoppers. That's why I had the next question for you. Has the Commission assessed the effects of these legislative changes or has it requested an assessment of them? In fact, the border shops consider that when excise duty on beer and other alcoholic beverages is increased, the income of small shops falls dramatically, which may force them to close shops. Empty of alcohol, but people lose the chance to buy eggs, milk and bread. Have the effects of these increases in excise duty been assessed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U181	Thank you for your question. To some extent, of course, it has been done. But I can see the other side of this thing. We always have to make some choices. You've been a minister for many years. You know what decision-making is and how much there's to consider, whether it's worth doing or not. You're familiar with this thing. In Estonia, 8.7 litres of absolute alcohol per capita were consumed in 2015, but 10.3 litres per adult population. I asked separately if the alcohol that was being taken to Finland was included. It's not included. It's as good as 21 liters of vodka, even more, about 25 liters, i.e. 50 bottles of vodka, which makes four bottles per adult per month. But how many people do not drink vodka at all? Still enough. I don't drink, for example. Who's drinking that alcohol? What kind of situation are these people in? Why are they doing this? Why aren't we doing this? We lose lives all the time. In 2013, 44% of road fatalities, 71% of fire accidents, 56% of drowning and falls, and 42% of suicide victims were intoxicated. It is so damaging to our country economically, not to mention how much problems it has to do with. I think, Hanno, that sometimes you have to make those decisions. I recall, in my opinion, the most difficult decision that I did not take, I was not there. This was in 2009 when the income base of local governments was reduced. You have no idea! You're talking about Antsla's store. I can tell you what kind of panic and trouble it was in local governments when they cut off the profits. In fact, it accounted for about 5% of all the money, and it was simply taken away. You have no idea what a tragedy that was! What we had to do in this situation, how many people we had to fire and lay off, what programs we had to finish! You made that decision, you made that choice. Everyone makes choices. When it comes to drugs or alcohol, my point of view is one: the harder it is to get it and the more it costs, the better I am talking about alcohol, of course. We could learn something from the Finnish and Swedish policies in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U182	Please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U183	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would name this bill a different one, which I think could be a star bill. When advertising offers people something at a cheap price, there is often an asterisk. If you read the text under this star, it may not be so cheap at all. You referred here to the local authorities. I'm sure the local authorities were very happy when they heard they were getting more money, but then it turned out that we were giving them more responsibilities. So in that sense, it's a one-way game. Doesn't it seem to you that in order to avoid excessive spending in situations such as the one you described well, you have not been able to do anything for people for many years, but now you have gained power and there is an opportunity to carry it all out, the budgetary procedure here in the Riigikogu could be even tougher than it is now? I am actually referring to the violation of the rules of the procedure so that the right and substantial budget can be read here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U184	Thank you. I'm asking you to look at it from my point of view. A little time goes by, and this is where the Minister of Finance comes in with a budget strategy. I have a wish that this would not only be a decision of the government, but that it would also be a decision of the Riigikogu. I know it's not in the coalition agreement, but it's a point of thought that we could discuss. We could have priorities set, not in such a way as to serve the interests of a party and of its constituents, but in a way that takes the general interest into account. Above all, I am thinking of municipalities. The policy could be such that they would not be threatened by an uncle coming and every 20 euro taken out of their pocket at one week's notice (then they were crowns). Yeah, we're probably giving some more responsibilities, but it's pretty complicated right now, because we're in the middle of an administrative reform. It doesn't stop and go, with certain changes, calmly on. We're trying to talk to the local governments more. What's better if you give money and some kind of commitment, or if you take the money away, but you leave the obligation? These are not equal situations, one is much better than the other. Now I'm standing here wondering if I answered the question. What's that all about? [[Interjections.]] Something must have been there, in any case, something related to local governments. If I didn't answer your question, ask again!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U185	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U186	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I will continue in part my previous question, to which I did not get all the answers. Has the Commission analysed the consequences of the principle of legitimate expectations associated with the amendments? I am thinking, apart from the abolition of the joint declarations, of a large reduction in the income tax exemption for domestic borrowing rates. In fact, even though child benefits have been increased, middle-income families are also losing. They have already calculated that they lose their total income on a year-on-year basis. Would it not be more appropriate to enforce, for example, the abolition of social tax reductions from 1 July 2017? What are the results of the analysis of legitimate expectations? I mentioned earlier that the abolition of joint declarations is contrary, for example, to family law. Have you, and to what extent have you done this analysis, and with what results?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U187	Thank you. I have actually already answered those five or six questions that sounded pretty good in a minute. Just because we are currently dealing with this law does not mean that life will end and nothing will happen after the adoption of this law and the state budget. As I was saying, legislation is a living process. I have already told you that the Minister of Finance is seriously concerned about some of the issues. He would like to solve these problems and start looking for solutions next spring. I have already told you that these analyses that exist, we will bring them to the Commission. Maybe the minister will bring them to this hall. If something requires cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the representative of your group in the Committee on Monetary Affairs can always raise these questions, and I promise that no wish to have information about one thing or another will be denied. That's for sure. I'm saying I don't know for how many times that right now we just have to hurry. The analysis of legality, which concerns the law as a whole, varies. I guess that's what you mean, isn't it? There is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, and the opinions of the Chancellor of Justice, the President and other authorities have also been heard. In fact, we'll find out what this is like after we've handed this law over to the president. It will depend on whether he declares the law or not. But anyway, we're gonna finish this job, we don't have a choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U188	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Monetary Commission had meetings with several interest groups on Friday. Why were these meetings or hearings organised if none of the proposals from these stakeholders were reflected in this large draft cluster proposal? Was it again about inclusion, or did it initially have some greater substantive purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U190	Thank you. The goal is always the same. I think that this is the case in all committees. The goal is to understand what interest groups think about one thing or another. In any case, it cannot be said that the result of this event was completely zero. At least the Estonian Insurance Association gave us a topic to think about. When the debate on this law and the state budget law comes to an end, I will certainly raise it. Well, whatever it is, it's sounded like a representative of the Ministry of Finance recognised how this issue was raised. There is a problem that can be solved. That's how it works, isn't it? At the same time, it must be said that, if we do not want to, we meet stakeholders very often both in the Commission and in person, and we understand that it is usually about protecting our specific interests. This may also be limited to operating grants, etc. But we must have enough experience to separate one from the other and to deal with specific and necessary things. Your neighbor can tell how a discussion with a lobby in our consulate in St. Petersburg was the birth of a bill that initially consisted of one section, but in the end it was two pages long. That's how it works. If the experts feel that the proposal is interesting, that is what will happen. As I said, for me personally, it has been a good score of 10 to 20% over the years and it has been different, and it can be taken into account that the result is the same in this case too. But if there were no more meetings with the interest groups, soon you wouldn't even know what's going on in the country. One category is our voters; the category is also local governments. I'm glad we can be at local government councils next year. I once explained in this Chamber that if you colleagues were members of the local government council as well, rather than being purely members of the Riigikogu, you would never vote for this, this or this matter. After such a vote, a member of the Council must meet the people in the council and explain to them what he did. Maybe that's why IX and X were as effective as they were in the Riigikogu. So with interest groups, including our voters, we must definitely meet and draw conclusions from this. Personally, I take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U191	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U192	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I'll come back to the excise. This cluster bill contains a great deal of tax changes. One of the great worries we all think is border trade. Today, the merchants of South Estonia, ten chairmen of the consumer co-operative, all members of the Riigikogu elected from Järva and Viljandi County, sent a very worrying letter, which also contains very well the latest statistics. Maybe you can explain. Last year, Minister Ossinovski claimed that border trade does not increase due to the increase in alcohol duty, according to the research company Emor, 28% of adults have gone to Latvia to buy alcohol this year. Does the government have a forecast and an estimate of the increase in the number of people who buy alcohol from Latvia due to the increase in the excise duty on lean alcohol next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U193	Thank you. And this morning, I met with an official at the Ministry of Finance, and I went over all these things again. These estimates can be very and very different; it cannot be estimated with any more or less satisfactory accuracy. I understand that, in any case, border trade is increasing and losing those selling lean alcohol. But as I have already answered one question here, it is a question of our choices. Once again, I would stress that the Minister for Finance, meeting with my colleagues today, said that, when we talk about this draft, alcohol and the registration fee are likely to be the most problematic. I see it's really like that, and it's essentially this way. Well, what can I do here? There's really nothing we can do about border trade. As I said before, there's always something cheaper on one side of the border and something more expensive on the other side and vice versa.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U194	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U195	Thank you. I'm sure it's more pleasant to listen to you than to Sven Sester, but it's still a little depressing when you say that you don't have any preparation for this job, you don't like it, and finally, it takes a lot of effort for you to remain honest, which you regret afterwards. But you hurt Jüri Jaanson when you said why we didn't do it ourselves. You don't have to give answers like that. First of all, this bill has been submitted by us. Secondly, Jüri Jaanson and I, as great sports friends, despise this bill. The only reason why it was not presented earlier is that there are points inside which in no way favour a healthy life and help those who are least in need. This is the main answer to why this bill was delayed, apart from the fact that it costs money. More...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U196	Now there is no time to ask, but since there aren't too many answers, the main thing is that I could say no.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U197	A question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U198	I'm still commenting on the sound. I've had many difficult tasks in my life, whether I liked them or not. At some point in the Riigikogu building, I can tell you what work I made in Kreenholm factories and so on. Maybe the question is, I don't really want to lead or boss anybody around, but it happens like it does on its own. I'd like to be independent like you, I'd like to be the cat who's walking his way, or how it was on Kipling. It's not gonna work because there's work to be done all the time. That doesn't mean quality falls. If you view your work logically and without emotions, I think it's the best way to achieve a normal result, because you don't have any excessive feelings involved. There was something else that could have been commented on, but since I've forgotten, I guess it wasn't very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U199	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U200	Thank you. To conclude on the previous issue, I have not doubted Mr Stalnukhin's honesty. I just think that when people start paying more taxes, they don't really care. I hope that Mr Stalnukhin also honestly told Narva kindergarten growers the other half of this coin: you may pay a little less income tax, but you will have to pay more by shopping, buying a car, paying for heating and other transactions, or even declaring your income in spring. But my question concerns impact assessments. These very large proposals have almost no impact analyses, including regional impact analyses, which should exist. Speaking of alcohol, too, I can say that this rise hurts the tourism sector more than it would have made a VAT change. Can you promise that these impact analyses before the third reading will occur, as prescribed by good practice, and we can take a look at them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U201	Thank you. First, answer the question. Those impact analyses that exist will definitely be here. The ones that still need to be done or ordered, probably won't get here until the third reading. Now, about the other side of the question. Yeah, I usually tell people everything. This is my weakness as a politician. My loved ones often say that you had to fucking put all that negative in that story, you talk only about good, promise something good, and shut up about what bad can happen. But for five and a half years in opposition, I was practicing the need to talk about these issues as well. I mean, last week it was like, apart from researching the materials, as far as possible, I tried to convey what it's all gonna look like. I was talking about the gas excise rise. I told people what kind of consumption the increase was 2.5%, which is 5.4%. They could figure out how much they're gonna pay for the gas, how much it's gonna be 2.5%. How does it affect central heating when these things are connected? No gas is used in Narva for central heating, but now it is so that gas is the basis for price calculation anyway. You see, the average person realizes that it's not possible to get anything all the time, something has to be given back. That's the balance. The real question is, I have a pretty bad memory, so I'm trying not to lie because I don't remember what I said afterwards. I always tell the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U202	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U203	Thank you! Honourable waitress! I am, of course, surprised by your determination, which will allow you to answer simple questions with a long story about how things are not really there. But if you say, in terms of the increase in alcohol duty and the closure of shops, that the entire revenue base has been reduced, it is actually a little funny, you could still have stayed with the impact analysis that my colleague Aas was just asking about. Maybe you're trying to answer whether or not there's been some impact analysis on the Ministry of Finance's side by now? If there aren't, will they come for third reading or not? Please, yes or no, I don't want a long answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U204	In part, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U205	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U206	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Psychologists have said that someone who gives money always feels good, sometimes even better than the one who gets the money. Why were no proposals developed at the same speed to actually ensure economic growth and sustainability? As you have even pointed out, if an entrepreneur is unable to raise 10% of his salary and the state gives 10% of his income at a blow, this may actually lead to a failure to raise wages in the next and the following years, because it has not become more effective and new solutions have not been sought. Why does the new coalition, in some ways, punish industriousness, including those who work in many jobs and do not win anything from this so-called tax drive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U207	Thank you. We were talking about economic development, I understand. We have two options right now. One possibility is that the law will be passed and declared. It's a scenario. The second and black scenarios are that the law will be passed, but it will not be announced, or will not be adopted. Depending on which scenario will be implemented, economic programmes will also come. The conditions are drastically different for one and the other. Neither do our ministers. If we are in an economic situation that is created through this draft and the budget adopted on the basis of it, we will very quickly introduce to you these plans relating to investment, developments in the near future, etc. For the time being, it would be excessive, and I personally am not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U208	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I was inspired by your previous answers. It occurred to me that you and I are more or less the same people of the same era. Surely you are familiar with the slogan 'Everyone according to his abilities and to his needs', promoted some 50 years ago. The package of financial measures proposed by the current government coalition gives the impression that every taxpayer, especially the companies that actually maintain the state's economy, is going to want to take seven more skins with the rise in taxes and then distribute it peacefully according to their wishes. Isn't the current government coalition going in the direction of the society described by George Orwell, the flag-flying one?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U209	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U210	Thank you for your question. No, it was you. Laine, I don't want to get personal, but do you remember the interesting subject I was here with the last time? It was about the Committee on Culture that you led. I'm sure you remember that. It was a statement on the subject that the teaching of Estonian in Russian schools should be improved. We were talking about the need to develop new methodologies, the need for dictionaries, and the need to control the whole process. No one dared to say anything back in this hall, but 51 votes didn't come together either. But you comforted me by the creation of a working group for the Committee on Culture that had to deal with this matter. I worked my ass off before the summer to get into that group. I was sincerely grateful that you took me, who I am not a member of the Committee on Culture, as a member. I thought we'd start now and now we'd do it. We already had a round table, we listened to textbook authors and representatives of the language institute. Everything was great, so now it's going to work! What, though, has been done all this time? What? Now, this is a silent era when you're just pretending to do something. Yeah, you promise everyone gets a free apartment. Then let him sit down and wait for this free apartment. Yes, we are working on the development of teaching the Estonian language at school, but in fact, hop, nothing is done. I see the signs of a silent age in the way you behaved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U211	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U212	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I can see that Laine Randjärv is not happy, but I am still asking my question. Dear Mikhail! Looking at this bill called a cluster bill, it turns out it's a super cluster. I have a very practical question. How am I supposed to vote if I agree with one thing in this cluster bill and I'm willing to support it, but I disagree with the other, I agree with the third thing, but I disagree with the fourth thing? How am I supposed to act, stay neutral, and let the coalition drive the road roll? What advice do you give me?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U213	Thank you for your question. Dear Mart, you've been in politics much longer than I have. I don't have to teach you, you're smart enough to choose how to act. I don't dare teach you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U214	Laine Randjärv, I understand you have a procedural question for the manager.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U215	It's not procedural. Since my name was repeatedly mentioned, I found that...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U216	The name was not mentioned in the negotiations. That's a stupid story.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U217	I'll be in line to ask. I can...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U218	Got it. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U219	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Whose proposal or whose idea was it to eliminate the possibility for couples to submit joint declarations? Specifically, which party or which member of the current government or chairman of the party was it who put the idea on the table? What route did this proposal find its place in the new coalition treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U220	Thank you. I really can't tell you what kind of party was back there because this proposal came from the Ministry of Finance and we have political parties. But I will take this opportunity to address your colleague again. Mart, I'm used to sometimes not knowing when I'm serious and when I'm ironing or joking. I've been having trouble with that all the time. I want to tell you that I was completely serious about answering the previous question. There must be a foolhardy person in order to say in our Parliament that our independence and defence capabilities, I don't remember exactly what words you used, depending on your relationship with our eastern neighbour. There are few people here who would dare say such a thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U221	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U222	Thank you! Good waitress! You said earlier that an in-depth analysis has not been carried out, rather the economic aspect has been discussed. I will give an example of a young family with two children, one parent at home with children, another doing a lot of work in many places, studying and supplementing himself in a paid school, children going to the clubs that have to be paid for, they have just bought themselves an apartment for which a loan has to be paid, and they also have to buy a vehicle to take the child across town to kindergarten. Do you dare say that during your reign, their lives will be better in a few years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U223	Thank you. Did one of them work, but the other one doesn't work? If the one who works gets paid less than 2100 euros, then yes, their lives will get better. If he gets paid more, there will be a minus 38 euros. But it is hardly possible to talk about it as a major negative effect if the salary is over EUR 2100. So given that child benefits are increasing and that income tax exemptions remain in force, I believe that their lives will be better. If they get the average wage in Estonia, then definitely.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U224	Laine Randjärv, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U225	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! This is, of course, a master class of demagogy when you relate the subject of language learning to the issue of tax collection. I want to get this over with right now. Firstly, the Committee on Culture is dealing with the language issue, and this is such an important issue that even the Estonian Language Council has begun to deal with it and will certainly continue to deal with it in the Committee on Culture. So don't worry about it! Rather, my question is how our lives will still improve if we start taking seven skins from the same group, but we pick up more taxes and we just redistribute them the way we like. That was the question. This is communist ideology, I remind you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U226	Thank you. Mrs. Randjärv! It's not like that. If you compare this change in the tax system and the increase in excise duty with the communist ideology, it means that you do not know absolutely what this is about. I am very sorry, but if you say that this working group or the Commission at the Committee on Culture, which was to deal with this issue, has worked, why have I not received any invitations as a member of this working group? If, after this draft decision was not supported here, there was a debate, where was it all? Why did I even start talking about it? Listen, every time someone does something without you, why do you start talking instantly about communism and the silent era? What kind of disease is that? There are different views: one is left, the other is right, the third is in the middle. People living in the West, England, France, Germany, have different views. You see, people may have different views, it's not forbidden. If a person has different views of you, that does not mean that he is a Communist or a pro-communist. It is not democratic to think so at all. This is because you live in silent timing, for you will immediately baptize all those who do not like... I think it was the pigs that ran the whole economy in that book. But that's it. All right, a little lyrics, too. Oh, there's more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U227	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U228	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. Listening to these questions and answers, I had the feeling that we actually had a consensus that the process of processing the draft and amendments would not suffer criticism. You have admitted that yourself. For future generations and national archives: what is your message, how could such changes be made in the future, and what could be the lesson? You're kind of a victim here, but maybe you're giving advice on how to do things better in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U229	Thank you. I'll tell you about the future a little later. But it amazes me that you're trying to put words in my mouth that I haven't said. I have already explained here ten times that yes, technically this process is not very correct, but we do not have any other option. How can such a situation be resolved in the future? Well, after a while, in about ten years, when the Reform Party has been in the coalition again and at some point has to leave, please do so in the spring and do not wait for winter, these problems will disappear. I'm definitely not in this hall, but you, Remo, are definitely, like, a hundred percent. Remember that! In order not to create new cluster laws, leave in the spring!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U230	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U231	I listened to the previous answer and could not even switch to my question. Leave in the spring before the clusters develop... Here's the question. As far as I've heard your answers here, I've realized that part of this idea is still that we're going to get revenge for what we've done before, that once the Reform Party did cluster laws, now we're going to get back. But you are not really punishing the Reform Party, but you are punishing entrepreneurs, for example. I have not seen or read any businessmen who would have approved the amendment to the law that you want to implement here. With regard to social tax reductions, they have been critical of why only 0.5%, but it has never occurred to them to make sense to give it up at all and at such short notice. Do you intend to discuss a little with the parties in the future before you change anything, or will there be such a very big road roller going on in the future that, entrepreneurs, snack the lawn, we will do in the Riigikogu what we want?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U232	Thank you for that question. It's certainly not revenge or making it happen. I've lived long enough to realize there are no winners in a fight. Why don't you stop by sometime? I updated something in the office of the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'll show you what our confrontation in this hall looks like when you look at the Riigikogu from outside. Just come and see, I'll show you. It's not about making it happen, it's not about revenge. Understand that these processes go along the spiral all the time. The situation in the world is changing and changing the conditions in which we are working, and then suddenly it turns out that the liberal politics of the Reform Party are not suited to the current era, but that we need to look around and come up with something that is more appropriate. We have to solve our population problems. We cannot allow another 50,000 or 100,000 to travel abroad to make money. We have to give them hope here. We cannot allow agriculture to run out from the year after that, but we must grant more subsidies. We must create civil society and do so through real integration, without integration on this paper. There's nothing to do here. It's just that if you, Valdo, for example, want to cooperate, that's what we're gonna do. Again, I'm gonna get the news from Jürgen. I don't know what to do, I guess I'll be in his office if he lets me in. There's no revenge, there's no turning around. Everyone's wrong. Everyone's going to get into some kind of trouble. If you haven't learned forgiveness in your life, I don't think you've ever lived with normal people. My principle is this: I work with everyone, I have done it in Narva and I have done it here in the Riigikogu, as far as possible. I will continue to live like this. But the point of the question is that as soon as we run out of time, we're going to make the job normal. I managed to do it once in Narva. Hopefully, the Minister of Finance will take an understanding of what was going on in this Chamber today, that he does not know how many times, perhaps 20 or 30 times, the same thing was said. Everyone changes. I hope that this coalition will be a little better than the previous one, will really work together and will do what you are talking about here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U233	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U234	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Listening to these answers, I recall that a few decades ago, I came across a collection of brilliant defense speeches by the Tsar-Russian top advocates. Indeed, I must say that Mikhail Stalnukhin is a very dignified carrier of this tradition here. Speaker, Mikhail, you're great. But now my question. Take it seriously or not seriously, I think it's serious, but I'll get a quote from another classic. This second classic is a great soldier, Schweik, known to all of us, who said that the government, who raises the price of beer, will fall. Does the honourable speaker agree with Mr Šveyk's view?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U235	Thank you for your warm words. But, Mart, I can feel how my tongue gets like this. The current performance cannot be compared to the way I spoke in Estonian 20 to 30 years ago. That's one. Second of all, Schweik is my favorite book. Remarque and Hashek, these are the two authors who have sent me all my life. The question is, I like the way Schweik thinks. What's his advantage over other heroes? He tells the truth when the others are quiet, but he does it in such a way that he can't be accused of anything. In fact, I would like to remind you that the increase in the price of beer had been programmed into the budget long before these new changes came in. So I think from this puddle we're gonna swim over on the old coalition because they already lost, they're gonna raise the beer price and fall. We just put some more in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U236	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U237	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good speaker! Here, very many good and elegant responses have been received to substantive questions today, which unfortunately have contained relatively little information. But I'm going to ask you a rhetorical question. You've repeatedly said this famous sentence today when you talked about the cluster bill, but you did, too. Why don't you try to be better than us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U238	Thank you. We are. As for the substantive issues you have mentioned, if I have a little time off in a few days' time, I will definitely take all the questions out and make an article on them for my blog. In my opinion, there have been basically five or six questions here. Everyone else has been trying to assign me some of your opinions. I've been saying from the start that I don't want to remind you of those old cluster law issues. Just before you start throwing a rock at someone, think, maybe you've sinned a little too. Well, that's what the Bible says. So I have nothing to blame for you. I'm telling you today, I don't know how many times. The cluster laws are sometimes used because of political need, you used them, they were probably used before you and used after us. We are talking here about creating a situation where the technical need for them disappears, so that they are not needed and can discuss things normally. But in the current situation, we simply have no choice because of the lack of time that arose this winter. It's understandable. We do not want to go on living with the former laws and the principles that have been fed into the law under your policies, we want to try our way. How can you not understand that? You've been in power enough. Get some rest. Look, maybe the others will. Maybe you can make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U239	Thank you. I listened to your answer to my question. You said you'd really like to work with me. A couple of answers before that you said you wanted to be an independent cat or a cat walking on its own, i.e. being an independent person. Right now, you actually have that chance. Put the paperwork together and tell me you don't want to protect any more of this shit. Then you'd go down in history, too, that you're really independent and show that you don't think it's right yourself, yes, I think so in your heart, even though I don't want to put those words in your mouth. But this whole coalition actually came under the star of this narrative that Estonia is in stagnation and now the economy has to start quickly. You've come here with a huge package. I have tried to look there for the spunk, which is what is driving the Estonian economy. I haven't found it. Do you know any of the things that are the big idea that will get the economy going? I'm not talking about redistribution of poverty, I'm talking about creating wealth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U240	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U241	Thank you. You said put the paperwork together and go away. Look, I have never made such suggestions to you or your colleagues because I have respected you. I don't like your views, but if the people supported you and you managed to create a coalition as a result, you have the right to realise your views here. Such a suggestion that you put the papers together and go away... Hey, this isn't the fucking State Duma where sailor Železhnyak comes and says get the hell out of here. You're actually playing that role right now. I don't understand. We're civilized people. The formation of a new government just happens sometimes. I understand you're not used to it. I mean, the new government may come, but with you. Now you have a new experience to get used to. Give people a chance to try, and if you think you can make a useful suggestion, please participate in this cooperation. The fact that I would like to be independent concerns my internal life and the possibility of being independent in everything that falls outside certain areas where I cannot do anything without the support of my colleagues. Only when we're together can we make a difference and do something for our constituents. That self-walking was about a whole other thing. That thought came from, by the way, the fact that I thought of a comparison with Jürgen. There are few people who are as independent as he is, including in his own words. So we have certain ideas, we have them, and we're going to propose them. We decide what comes first and what comes after. But I already answered that question. Now is the time when we have to complete the preparatory work, i.e. taxes, excise duties and the whole organisational thing. That's the first thing to do. After that, all concrete proposals will come. Stay calm, they're coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U242	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U243	Thank you, good Chairman. Good chairman of the committee! I fully understand that you want to make a new policy and give it a new content. But the way it's done... Politics are done according to certain rules. The coalition will change at such a time, but the new coalition will have to comply with general norms and rules, not to justify that they simply have little time. Don't you think these are adequate reasons? In fact, the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, Constitution and other laws state how the processes are carried out. It doesn't say anywhere that if there isn't enough time, we can ruin all these things. Do you think that makes sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U244	Thank you for your question. We've known each other so long ago that we can trust each other. Let's do it this way that I trust you, and I think you asked it sincerely, and you're at least pretending that you believe that I speak sincerely, claiming that there are situations where you have to act quickly and there is simply no other way. What else can I tell you? We've known each other so long, and we haven't discussed everything. All the more so because I've been repeating it and repeating it here. I will definitely do it with the calculations and statistics of this article.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U245	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U246	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! At the beginning of this long and bravely held avalanche of questions, I heard the idea that you don't like being on this committee at all, but you are doing your duty. And the hat off in front of it! I'm on the National Defense Committee, and I know I'm in the right place. My constituents also know this because national defence is the only reason I applied to the Riigikogu. I expect a good colleague with philologist education to feel good, for example, in the Committee on Culture. My specific question, however, is: will the members of the Central Party Group be appointed to committees against their will?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U247	Thank you. I understand you must be military. I'm sorry, I don't know about you, but you were talking about the National Defense Commission as your goal. Nod your head, are you... [[Makes a vague gesture.]] Oh, yeah, right. That makes it even more interesting, because when you're involved in a defence policy, there should be either an appropriate education or an experience. Whether I like this place or not, and how people are appointed on our side, you can ask the chairman of my political group or party. They're simple people, sometimes they come right here in the hallway, they can be stopped and asked questions, so they'll explain. I'm trying to tell you, I'm sorry, that not every job has to be a dream. Yeah, maybe I'd like to write books. I am so much fun and good today because I just saw the layout of my new book. By the way, this is my 12th book, but it's the first book written in Estonian and it's fantasticly well done (I'm talking about an artist, not myself). I've been in a good mood since this morning because that's just how it happened. Maybe I'd like to write more children's books, but maybe it turns out that the group sees me as the right person in this place. I'm under the law. I have to organize a job in this position. I used to do it in those summer construction squads or what they were called. I dealt with it for six months in the crown, where I later commanded the company for a year and a half. I've been working on it at the factory. I'm not telling you whose brigade I was, but I was. I did a lot of work in vocational school, I taught people, and so on. It's just that I think I know how to communicate with people. It's very highly appreciated, I think. It wasn't against my wish, I'd just be happy to do something else. But if it is necessary, if the party thinks so, a party that has allowed me and all of us to sign a coalition agreement that, I say again, gives my voters so much that I never had the hope of getting so much for my county, for my city, for my voters, then I will do the job. There's no squeezing or anything like that. Maybe it shows you're wrong to think. I don't know how you do things at the Reform Party and how you choose your prime minister candidates, but I have a feeling you're somehow putting them in there. How else are these guys gonna get to the head of our country? That was the exact answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U248	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U249	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I have a completely benevolent question of curiosity. When you took over the chairmanship of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you said that you were the coordinator of the coalition agreement. If it were entirely your will, would the coalition's amendments include some that you would easily give up, or is there something you would like to add to it for sure, but which, because of the treaty, did not succeed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U250	Thank you. Very good question, very seriously. Yes, I'd like to be like one of Gogol's heroines in this marriage story, how does the title of this play sound in Estonian? The one who dreamed of a groom for whom he would take his nose and its ears and its hair, so that a dream would have come true. But I'm not the girl who dreams about the groom. I understand that life needs to be with someone you've met, there's nothing you can do about it. Compromise is one of the components of our lives. Without it, there's no way. I would like to get a lot more, but I understand that this is a three-party agreement, and each of us, in order to get something in common for our constituents, has to give up something. I'm grown up enough to understand that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U251	Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! No further questions. Andres Herkel, a procedural question for the manager. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U252	Thank you, Mr President. I take this opportunity to ask you a procedural question as the most experienced member of the Riigikogu. In fact, many members of the Riigikogu have expressed confusion over amendments that are impossible to vote on. They were impossible to vote in the Commission and it is probably impossible to vote in the vote on the amendments now, because they really contain so many different elements. There are referendums in the dictatorship countries on some 50-part questions. We're not okay with this. I also looked at the regulations of the drafts to be dealt with in the Riigikogu. It mainly talks about drafts and explanatory notes. Is it really that there is no such rule on the amendments? If not, should we not be able to bring in bundles that are really impossible to vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U253	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, be good and sit down! I'll answer that question. In itself, the amendments have always been a major dispute in the Committee on Monetary Affairs during the state budget procedure. The main issue has been how to group the proposed amendments, what can and cannot be done. It's been a big argument. By the way, there has also been a debate about whether a member of the Riigikogu should be able to submit completely arbitrary amendments. I think it should be. It is part of democracy that a member of the Riigikogu can make proposals such as he wants, and the Commission must discuss them in the same way and in the opposite direction. It is up to the Commission to decide how to group them. I have listened carefully to this debate and I understand this concern very well. The proposed amendment has given rise to some reservations in the MPs. Mart Helme here asked very well that if he was in favour of some change and opposed to something, how could we vote? I understand that the Commission's decision is to interrupt the second reading of the draft, which is an extremely sensible decision. If the committee had decided differently, the President of the Riigikogu would have made this decision himself. We will then correct this mistake in the course of the amendments. If the amendment goes through, it will be a text of the law and it can be improved, perhaps by supporting parts that are acceptable to itself and proposing that they be deleted from the table. Right now, it's gonna make things better, but it's gonna be the way it is. I also quote a classic, a former member of the opposition, someone named Nestor: the government's proposals are divided into two parts, some lack impact analysis and others are simply unconstitutional, and there are no other proposals from the government. But now we're gonna start the negotiations. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U254	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party Group also likes the idea that the second reading of the draft will be interrupted. We are honest, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the second reading of the draft is interrupted is almost unique in practice. During the previous Riigikogu formations, however, this practice was very, very much used. We could draw conclusions from today's case for the future and we could be bolder to stop the second reading. Since I have already been able to express my thoughts on the main content of this draft at first reading once, today I am focusing on these unexpectedly annexed and surprising amendments, both in terms of their content and in terms of the way they are formalised. Of course, everyone in this Chamber understands what this situation has come about. Everyone also understands that the present coalition is being harassed by time frames. But when it was discussed here at the joke that the next time the opposition of the Reform Party could be scheduled for spring, that is not quite the correct reference. You should look at the Centre Party itself. The Congress of the Centre Party should have taken place a month or two earlier, because this whole very necessary change of government started at this congress. For this turn of events, you esteemed middle partyers deserve praise in this hall. It all started out positive. But despite the recent explanations by the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mikhail Stalnukhin, and the attempt to convince me and my colleagues, I cannot agree with the principle that the right things can be done wrong. It's not like that. It's not always an instrument of intent. To the new government, voters have now granted quite a large amount of credit. The number of people in Estonia who were under the rule of the Reform Party, sorry, just bored, who had had had enough of it, was still very large. They gave a great deal of credit to the new government. But if it is so lashed, so quickly and so foolishly, it is unacceptable. It is unacceptable for a large proportion of voters to lose their faith in the possibility of making a different policy because of this cluster law and its cluster proposals. Only a few of the proposals contained in this draft are justified. For most excise increases, there is no argument for haste; they do not have to take place from 1 January 2017; they could also take place later, after a more in-depth discussion. I am not going to talk here about, for example, car tax, as is being softened here by euphemism, raising the state fee. This should not be discussed overfoot in this way, hastily, without impact analyses and without the involvement of experts. When Jüri Ratas gave us his enthronement, there was one very sympathetic point and principle: the coalition agreement will not be locked, the new coalition agreement will not be the same as the dogma that was carved into the stone of the previous coalition, with which all the actions and omissions could be apologized. With this bill, however, the coalition behaves the other way around; in some way, it partially locks up its contract, completely incomprehensible and meaningless. Once again, the most unpleasant... Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U255	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U256	... with this cluster proposal, this is the way of formalising cluster proposals, which a number of colleagues have already pointed out here in the form of questions. Let us be clear: the Estonian people have such an expression that the devil is being expelled with a peltsebul, and this is what is happening now. I'm going to the subject of the bill. In the opinion of the Free Party Group, there are also suitable and positive proposals in this draft. For example, the abolition of a half-percent reduction in social tax. But we would do it in time, we wouldn't go against earlier laws, we would do it from 1 July 2017 instead of 1 January 2017. It is positive to cancel the increase in VAT for accommodation establishments, to cancel the low-paid tax refund that we cannot understand, and to postpone partially the dates for the entry into force of the increase in excise duties on fuel. There are positive things in this bill. The decisive increase in the tax-free minimum is also positive in principle, although the Free Party still believes that if, at the same time, the tax-free minimum were to be greatly increased and the income tax rate increased, as we have offered several times in this Chamber, it would be a more budget-friendly and smarter way of doing so. It is quite comical to use many refutations and euphemisms. Instead of saying frankly and clearly 'rate income tax', there is talk of a regressive increase in the tax-free minimum. Instead of saying 'car tax', it says 'increase of the state registration fee for cars'. We all know here that state fees are something else. The state fee is the cost which must be borne by the operation, the cost of any procedure (officer's work, etc.). There are a lot of things that can be repaired quite easily. I believe that a coalition somewhere in the bottom of the heart would even like to correct them, but it would have needed a little more time and time. I'm sure it's worth thinking about the increase in excise duty. The reduction in excise duty between lean and strong alcohol is sympathetic to us. But I would remind both the current coalition and future coalitions that the specialists of the Ministry of Finance have long said that it is not worth raising alcohol duty by more than 5% a year, because then smuggling and border trade will spread and all other bad things will arise. Finally, as the tax specialists have emphasised, realising all these promises and thoughts may not be as easy as the current coalition hopes. But I guess they'll have to see for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U257	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U258	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! The Free Party promised the government a Christmas peace and a truce. But at that point, of course, we didn't expect you to do your things so dirty. Therefore, some of the crunchier words must probably be said today, because what you are doing is sometimes ugly, and the way you do it is very ugly. Indeed, it is worth welcoming that the second reading of the bill is interrupted. If they didn't, this thing would be pretty unimaginable. Mikhail Stalnukhin was sincere in the sense that he was not good at being on the floor. I also tried to ask the Prime Minister in Question Time how the approach to this cluster is then, after everything you all said in spring 2015. Sadly, he did not answer the questions very accurately, but a few of these banners came from him. I'm sorry. Now, some margins. First of all, how tax changes work. Yeah, the expression that we have to hurry, and that's why we can break the rules, we can't take criticism. But I'm going to remind you of a few things. One of them comes directly from the text of the Coalition Treaty. I had to comment on it as soon as this treaty came to the public, and I said that the most sympathetic thing is that you allow things to be considered. The agreement states: 'We promise that we will not only make decisions about our own wisdom, but we will listen to entrepreneurs, experts, civil society and opposition parties. ' Sorry, you're not listening! It is completely unclear why it is necessary to rush with the amendments that will enter into force from the beginning of 2018. Aivar Sõerd will follow me. I used to talk to him about it. He personally has these experiences of how tax laws were made in the early 1990s. It was not then that the coalition agreement was completed in three days, and then all the laws were bound into the cluster and quickly brought before the Riigikogu. Indeed, this issue of expertise and impact analysis is very serious. Even if the voters of Mr Stalnukhin like this direction, the details that need to be considered are very much here. Now it's different. So far, the Estonian tax system has valued its simplicity; simplicity is like its greatest virtue. Some theorists who are in favour of progressive income tax have said that in the beginning the system was really very good, and the Tax and Customs Board was also easier to work with, but now society has evolved and could take steps. This may or may not be accepted, but it involves juggling the terms here, but progressive income tax is a regression of the tax-free minimum. You know, the consequence of this, I think, is that we are currently probably making one of the world's most complex graduate tax options. Now that's probably an antivalue. Things have to be called the right names. If there is a political will to make progressive income tax, then let it be progressive income tax, but not what you have done in this draft. It has neither tail nor horns. The same question arises in the case of car tax. It's a car tax, but it's not that funny fee. Now the question of legitimate expectations. I think all these things need to be answered as soon as possible. What does it mean to lose joint declarations in the context of family law? How far can you go by lowering the income tax exemption on mortgage interest? There is also the question of abolishing social tax reductions. Let it really be done on 1 July 2017, then it is certain. But there are no answers. Finally, one more aspect. It has a great deal to do with the state budget. Here yesterday on a draft... I'm asking for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U259	I'll give you three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U260	Thank you. When discussing the draft Free Party, we recalled yesterday this report by Kristjan Kõljala, which was carried out in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. There was one such motive that how true it can be to have a general separation between the state budget and the tax bill. But this draft is directly linked to the state budget and the opposition has proposed a number of amendments at its best discretion. They usually do so by saying that if the government reserve fund or party money is not offered as a source of cover, we will, of course, also be told in these cases that the source of cover is completely wrong. With the current changes, the coalition is actually making a legitimate source of cover for the draft state budget law. This is quite certainly about the abolition of social tax reductions, and there are still these elements. The government will probably bring this proposal before the Commission and it will be formalised as a Commission proposal, but the opposition did not have this opportunity. I have no choice but to turn to Orwell, a lot quoted today: it turns out that everyone is equal, but some are even more equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U261	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U262	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by saying that in my opinion, the Riigikogu's practice has not been such a large and striking violation of current law, the guidelines for the procedure of draft laws approved by the governing board of the Riigikogu, the rule of good law and the procedure of the entire Riigikogu so far. Since the decisions of the Supreme Court in recent years have also repeatedly highlighted the importance of legal certainty and the legal binding nature of promises, it is very likely that this draft itself, as well as the way in which we deal with this draft, will have legal consequences. This package of amendments to tax laws, combined with a completely different bill on a different subject, is also quite frightening on the substantive side. I am not going to dwell on the reverse withdrawal of the additional euro authorised by the introduction of a graduated tax-free minimum. This is done by increases in excise duty, car tax to be introduced under the name of the fee, the abolition of joint declarations and other tax changes. The rise in gas excise duty alone results in an increase in domestic costs of 100,000 places of consumption. According to the gas union calculations, after an increase in gas excise duty, heat will increase by 20% in four years. A few days ago, a representative of the Union for Large Families sent a letter to the Committee on Monetary Affairs saying that, even without taking account of the increases in excise duties, they would lose, solely because of the introduction of a graduated tax-free minimum. All these appeals and letters have not been discussed in substance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, not to mention that solutions to these issues have been found. The entire applied side of the graduated tax-free minimum is also unthought out. The chairman of the Taxpayers' Association said yesterday on television that if this law is adopted in this form, many things will no longer be the way we have been accustomed to declaring income and withholding income tax on wages for a long time. The number of tax refunds will decrease and the number of people who will have to pay tax will probably increase. The fact that there may also be a situation where, in the course of the year, just as a full tax-free minimum can be applied, but then it turns out that, for example, when dividends are received, this right disappears, is, of course, very unexpected and unpleasant for the taxpayer. In particular, dividends received by individuals are not currently subject to income tax. So this whole applied side is just incompletely prepared and not thought through. I do not understand this argument that all this change is so urgent. After all, the level-free minimum is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2018. We would have enough time to process this entire amendment through the Income Tax Act normally, so that there would be several readings, impact analyses and the Minister of Finance would have been heard. On 5 December, a few days ago, the Chamber of Commerce and the Confederation of Employers sent a letter to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which also refers to an unacceptable legislative process. They say that cited... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U263	...no material has been shown to the public or made available to business organisations. They are therefore of the opinion that the amendments will be introduced without consultation of the parties and without delay, excluding the possibility for interested parties to defend their constitutional rights during the proceedings. I'm asking if this is the involvement of allowed experts in the power union. I am quite sure that this tax experiment will be very expensive for taxpayers, all people and businesses. As I have said, the impact analyses of large-scale tax changes have not been carried out in basic terms, and where they have been partly done, they have been either incomplete or incomplete. The impact of tax changes on the competitiveness of the Estonian economy and the exporting sector is therefore unknown. It is certain that the competitiveness of our companies will be a significant setback and will suffer from Estonia's market share in export markets. The process of reducing social tax is reversed. It is likely that social tax increases are also in conflict with the tax administration law as compared to the law already adopted. The legal consequences can also result in the total incomprehensible and unjustified abolition of joint declarations. The joint income tax return is due to the current logic of the family law and the collective property of the spouses, as such, is also not lost. These values and legal principles cannot be overcome by a new family policy for road roller policy and a new power union. It is completely unclear why the car tax is imposed under the name of the state fee. Here is another aspect that I would like to mention. As we know, the Committee on Monetary Affairs received the entire tax package last Friday evening, but yesterday the Commission was not aware of these rates; they were sent by the Minister of Finance to the Commission only last night. In short, on Monday, we started discussing a new tax, a car tax, which is set under the name of the state tax, but the tax rates were not yet known to us, but we only found out yesterday. This is one example of how we have handled this package of amendments. In view of all the above, the Reform Party Group certainly cannot support the adoption of the Bill 302 as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U264	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U265	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U266	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I hope the President doesn't declare this law. This violation of good practices and procedures, I think, does not know the history of the Riigikogu. Analogies, which are given here, for example, about clustering and rushing, are not bad guys. It has never been the case that such a number of extraneous laws are bound to one law. Cases, if any, have been such a link, have now been left in the past and, in principle, the possibility of their recurrence has been eliminated with good practice and guidance in the future. If such a thing has been done that many laws have been passed at once, then there has been such a procedure that the government has been forced to tie its adoption to a vote of confidence. This has been a completely different situation. I do not want to repeat everything Aivar Sõerd has already said, but I stress that one particular feature is that these drafts did not go to the coordination circle, which we did even when we decided to link the tax package to a vote of confidence. This package obviously changes the budget extensively, and this is once again something that has not been possible to hold a substantive debate. This draft was sent directly to the Chamber without the Committee on Monetary Affairs being able to examine the amendments. Of course, no stakeholders were involved. The saddest thing is that this thing was not coordinated with the experts, as I said. Despite the fact that every experienced expert on taxation and finance, whom I dare to assume myself, knows these effects, this text still needs to be discussed in detail with experts from several ministries. It cannot simply be said that we have decided this way and that we have no other choice. That's how the coalition has justified it. The time limits for submitting amendments may be shortened, but a day and a half may not be justified instead of 10 days. Now a little bit more of a principle. Typically, new governments do not turn back decisions taken by previous governments in a sensible direction and in the light of expert opinions. I am thinking, for example, of a reduction in social tax. We have never raised a labour tax rate, that would be the first time. The reversal of a decision that has already entered into force is a very important change in quality and is not, in essence, justified by the justification put forward here, as if it would somehow contribute to economic growth. Hotel value added tax, that's another issue. The lack of expertise must be particularly criticised here. It is said that this is a nice decision because VAT is falling. Actually, it's a very cynical decision. There are also studies by Praxis on this. Who actually pays VAT on hotels? Half of it comes from foreign tourists who do not care if the price is a few euros higher because they do not choose the country they are driving to, even though they may choose to stay in the country where they are staying. The rest will be paid for two of the most prosperous decibels. There are no people in need at the hotels. In this respect, all this rhetoric, which talks about reducing the tax burden on low-paid people, is very cynical. Why is this bill still cynical in terms of content? It is cynical to claim that there is even a struggle for social matters. There is an old truth that has never been disproved here: tax changes and tax reductions cannot be carried out... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U267	Three minutes for Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U268	... effective social policy. This original bill is cynical enough. I've criticised it many times. The tax credit is granted to people who do not really have problems with access to healthier things, excluding those who do not work: children, pensioners, learners, unemployed. It's a very cynical way of sharing money. Apart from the fact that these people do not benefit from the advantage offered, the state budget loses very high amounts. Initiating this is, of course, the fault of the previous coalition, but I never intended to vote for it. But also, there is a clear decline in the complexity already mentioned here. Voters are allowed not to have progressive income tax, but it is currently being introduced, in such a way that the life of the taxpayer becomes very uncertain. Accountants will never know the correct amount of tax and, in general, the taxpayer will start paying tax in the spring; he will no longer get tax back as he has so far, as there is also likely to be a change in the amount of tax in the case of wage increases or several sources of income. It is also extremely difficult for the tax administration to achieve the right result. This requires, as we know, millions of euros that go for technological developments. Dumped money. As I said, this is not a social policy that is being dealt with here, because two or three lower decidals will not be part of an increase in the tax-free minimum either. Those who need it most will not be part of it. At the same time, higher-skilled and more productive jobs will be taxed, which will certainly also have an impact on the recipients of lower wages, because our economy and overall wage levels cannot increase. So these tax squabbles have all failed. I'll talk about the car tax. Indeed, the IRL wrote in the electoral programme that no car tax would be imposed. All right, let's hide this fee behind us. But it is still ridiculous to talk about environmental conservation. At the moment, it turns out that the registration that must be made and paid for each change of car is the issuer of CO2. If I go to re-register the car, I'll issue CO2 if I don't, leave the car to a stranger's name, CO2 will not be issued. It's still comicic and embarrassing. Basically, it is a new low level in Estonian political culture. I'm not gonna say it first. I hope that the Chancellor of Justice will also announce it in public soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U269	Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U270	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna do a little halve tonight. I also asked the same fundamental question yesterday in the Commission when I addressed my colleagues from the Centre Party. Throughout this autumn, last spring and last year, the Centre Party was very critical of border trade, the wrong excise policy and also of the cluster bill. What, then, has changed compared to the time when they were critical? Why have you come here with the same tactics? The answer doesn't satisfy me that the Reform Party did too. I'm not the Reform Party! Before Mikhail Stalnukhin said he didn't remember who said anything. So I'm going to quote a little bit about my dear colleagues in this hall. Mikhail Stalnukhin said to the Socialists in June 2015: 'It has not been so long since we together, the Centre Party and the Social Democrats, stood up to the cluster bill in this hall and talked more or less the same thing. At the time, we referred to the same work code that has been discussed. What has changed since then? If a few years ago there were very clear grounds for objecting to the cluster bill, what has changed now? ' We know the answer: one time there is a government, and another time there is opposition. Kadri Simson, previous Chairman of the Centre Party Group, from the cluster bill: 'Do you understand that during this procedure there was a problem: it took away the rights granted to it by Parliament. Will you refrain from such a procedure in the future? ' Then I ask you, " Will you refrain from doing so? ' 'It has always been our custom that when one law is changed, other laws that are not relevant will not be grafted into it. Sometimes it's been done. The reason is very simple. The members of the Riigikogu have the right to ask a specific number of questions in the debates and, if three or more taxes are raised at the same time, one particular tax increase cannot be focused on. ' Let's continue, again quote from Kadri Samson: 'Wait a week ago, Marje Josing, Head of the Conjuncture Institute, pointed out that raising consumption taxes and excise duties could seriously harm our economy, as changes in the price of inputs may drag some sectors of the economy out of the carpet and make this sector uncompetitive compared to Latvia and Lithuania. [---] Also, the President, when he declared this law, pointed out that such a way of adopting laws was not correct. This way has even been named and it is 'bad lawmaking'. ' What is being done in the Chamber of the Riigikogu has thus become a new name, which is now called vicious legislation. And now your group's current chairman, Tarmo Tamm: 'I feel that opposition's opposition to the cluster bill and, at all, to a bill that significantly raises taxes is justified this time. The way it is handled is not the fault of the opposition; this is where the coalition should look in the mirror. [[...]] it is not our fault that these drafts arrived so late in this hall, so there is virtually no time left for discussion. If we are going to adopt cluster proposals in this way, then one day we will be faced with the question that perhaps it would be wise to put the whole block drafts together, link them to the issue of government trust and then adopt them. But whether this is the hallmark of a democratic state is a question of its own. ' Tarmo Tamm continues: 'I ask if the government is counting on anyone if he is pushing this cluster bill through with force. [---] Do you have any data that supports this beyond those politicians who are in the Riigikogu? ' Then, 'I ask this question: who gives the government the right to adopt laws that are harmful and favourable to our country's neighbouring countries and to implement the same excise policy? This is how we voluntarily give money to the secret market and neighbouring countries. Who gives you that right? " There was talk of excise duties on fuel, but the current government is planning to increase excise duties on alcohol at a much faster rate than before. Tarmo Tamm continues: 'For example, in Germany, a company that consumes a lot of electricity has an excise tax of EUR 0.5 per megawatt-hour, while we have EUR 4.5. It's nine times the difference! How is it possible to remain competitive in these circumstances? Or another thing, fuel excise rise. Do you share our Prime Minister's view that excise policy has nothing to do with the competitiveness of an entrepreneur? ' I would like to remind you that this cluster bill, which we currently have under our noses, will increase gas excise duty several times compared to today, and that our gas excise duty will then be 5 to 15 times higher in our neighbouring countries, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. Maybe that was a very good question for Tarmo Tammel. Next: 'The excise duty on diesel in Estonia is already 31.4% higher than in Latvia. [---] How much will the Latvian government increase next year's excise duty rate on diesel fuel, and do you think Estonia should take into account the excise policy of its southern neighbour or not? ' The same question is for the current coalition in the context of gas excise and alcohol excise. In Tarmo Tamm's words, I will also conclude my quote: 'The City of Valka is planning new accommodation facilities, shops, service facilities in order to hold more Estonian consumers in Valka and get more money from the Estonian consumer. Is Estonia's tax policy aimed at Latvia? " These have all been the concerns of the Centre Party here in previous months and years. Yesterday in the Commission, I asked again what changed from the time those questions were asked, these concerns were known and these concerns were understood when it was understood that a sudden and brutal increase in the tax would have a negative impact on the economic environment and would not result in a tax collection of the estimated amount. Nothing has changed but the fact that it was done to you before, now you're doing it to the others. In that sense, I agree with the apology that has been through here before, but the Reform Party did so before. The crocodile tears of the Reform Party because of how they behave are, let's say, very cynical or two-faced at best. But you'd be able to do better. A whole bunch of the tax changes that are in this cluster bill don't need to be rushed at all. Yeah, some of them are in a hurry, I get it, but they can be done politely. What's completely incomprehensible is why you need to put 18 different changes under one point and you can either be for or against everyone. It is our choice, it is the choice of Parliament, the Commission and the hall; it is not imposed on us by an external timetable, by any Euro Directives or by proposals from the Ministry. It's our choice. In my view, there is now an abuse of the time allowed by the opposition in the absence of criticism. Such a draft cannot be supported in this form, despite the fact that there are quite a number of things in it that our party actually supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U271	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U272	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We all understand that we have different political views. We understand that different governments may have different objectives. These objectives can be discussed, even quite passionately argued here, this has happened from time to time, but my understanding is that there is no debate about the implementation of the objectives. What do I mean? I believe that the legislator must respect the laws that he has laid down and the rules and procedures which he has adopted. Because that's what they're thinking. If the legislator violates rules or laws, what should ordinary citizens do? The chairman of the Monetary Commission was talking about how he doesn't like it, but he has to do the job. I will then interpret it as saying indirectly: 'A violation of the law is permitted, because that is the wish of the Government and the Coalition of the Republic. 'It's a Machiavelli's goal to consecrate the measure.' I'm sorry to hear that. I'm sad that we have such a vigilante. I am also sad because the Commission is led by a person who does not really want to lead it. To tell me the truth, he didn't even feel like being in the Riigikogu. Mr Stalnukhin, you do not have to be chairman of the committee, you do not have to be a member of the Riigikogu, if you really do not want to. I understand you're not a free man, and I'm sorry about that. I feel sorry for you. But I'm going to the bill. It has been argued repeatedly here that the draft is extraordinary and therefore must be dealt with as it has been done. I would remind you that a change of government in a democratic country is not an emergency, it is a common matter. Each new government must take into account that there have been previous governments and there are procedural rules. So this aspect of extraordinaryism is not the reason. In 2015, a law was introduced according to which we have six months' waiting time before tax changes. Now we have heard over and over again that, look, the Reform Party did this in 2009 or the other. I understand that, in the opinion of a very large number of people, all bad things relate only to the Reform Party, although the Reform Party has always been in government with someone else and not always has it been a leading party in the government. But then it's our destiny. There was an economic crisis in 2009. We do not have an economic crisis at the moment; we do not have any emergency situation. The fact that there is no emergency situation shows, even if the Minister of Finance is not here himself, he is not here to present his draft, but he is in Brussels. If it were an emergency, the minister would show up and take responsibility. What else have we heard? We heard today from the chairman of the committee and in Question Time that no one knows where these ideas come from. They were reported to have been presented by officials of the Ministry of Finance. Hey, who's running the country? The government. Who runs the ministry? Minister. So officials and officials of the Ministry of Finance may offer opportunities, but politicians make a choice between options. Don't get behind the officials! It's a cowardly act, to be honest. This choice has been made by you and has been made by those who run the ministries. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U273	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U274	A little of the substance of the bill. We know that we cannot talk about content here, because tax changes always have, as I said in my question, a 'fiscal side', but they also have behavioural effects. This effect of any tax change has not been analysed. Everyone who knows the economy knows that taxes affect behaviour. If we look at these very different changes and put them all together, we can see that the results can only be bad. I dare say, even very bad. But I can't describe them exactly either. Believe me, even the Finance Department officials can't describe them all in one day. You could say that there are a number of so-called brilliant solutions that smell really bad. We see that the tax burden will certainly increase next year. I would just like to draw attention to one thing: we will lose the opportunity to submit joint declarations. That's $70 million in revenue. Families won't get anything for it next year. A large proportion of people with lower incomes who are currently hoping that their tax-free minimum will be EUR 500 next year will be disappointed because it will only be in place from 2018. They're losing. Let's see what happens. But I congratulate the government that's doing this. What else can I say? It's hard to say anything. There's a lot said about it here, but I'll just say it's a poor coalition that can't make things right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U275	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U276	Thank you. Make it eight!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U277	Eight? Three minutes extra time for MP Gräzin! But no more!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U278	Got it. Here we go. Okay. Question: why a wise president for Estonia? Estonia does not need a wise president. We don't need him because we don't listen to him. The president can say anything, we won't listen. I think twice, during the so-called election campaign, and then, when Mrs. President-designate came to us, she repeated the same sentence: 'The middle wage trap. 'He said, 'You fall,' then 'you', he wasn't yet our president, 'the middle wage trap. " Who was listening? Today it turns out no one. If no one is listening to the president, why should I assume that someone is listening to someone like me or someone like that? Not anyway. What was Kersti thinking at the time? It was very simple. We're getting paid, I don't know, 6% or 7%. Maris says exactly how many percent. Our productivity is actually increasing by 0.8%. And now this 5% is the trap we're sitting in. We're not just talking about it, we're not even thinking about it! I mean, we have a so-called corrective project before us. Mikhail Stalnukhin's presentation was lyrical, enjoyable, and brought tears to his eyes. But why aren't we talking about it? We've got a situation where wages run out of the way. The current government declares: entrepreneurs, get out of here, the last ones left here, and those crazy people who have wanted to come here, let them keep you from coming here, because we're taxing you to death! As Maris has rightly said right now, we're not going to tax you, but we're not going to tell you how dead we're going to tax you. At least the satraabs of Peter I were honest. They came into the yard and said that everything that moved would go, and every prince knew what would come. According to my colleague Stalnukhin, we do not know what will happen either. What is the idea of entrepreneurship if its only real and tangible incentive is that we take away not only profit from you, but ultimately horse, story and pants? That's the message that's being delivered right now. I'm an accomplice to this, of course, but... Wait a minute, I'll find it. This way: 'The introduction of the euro has not brought the benefits it hopes for; unemployment is high, talented are emigrating. In order to maintain employment, companies will be "landed" in the hands of the State, i.e. increased public investment in production geared towards cheap labour or local resources. ' I quoted Abdul Turay. Why doesn't anyone read it? [[Shows A. Turay's book.]] This is the abbot of the Estonian economy, the 'Little White State'. It's all in here. It's screaming and screaming to the face of today's government: what are you doing? What is the point of coming to Estonia to do something when everything is taken away with social tax? I said I'm an accomplice. I am from this party, I am one of those responsible for ensuring that the tax burden on our labour force was not reduced as quickly as it would have been necessary. We didn't have any money to cut back, we cut back as much as we could. But all these years, even during the crisis years, we've been saying to the entrepreneurs, boys, the smart people come here, they can make money, and they'll get the money. Yes, we have invested in concrete, but we are not only thinking about concrete, but we are thinking about Estonia, an innovative Estonia. By the way, its symbol is not Rail Baltic, which means two iron bars and that the wagon is driving. In short, the difference is there was a horse before, but now there's something else. But Rail Baltic and all of it, it's not yesterday, it's the day before yesterday. But we also have a future that we want to suffocate with the hands of today's government, tax it, etc. By the way, we ordinary people in South and Central Estonia, we're gonna make it. We've been through all these years, and we're gonna live these next, we're gonna survive this government, and we're gonna make it. But why should today's young and middle - aged people survive it? Why would a healthy and sane Indian IT guy come to this crazy place where he's got the joy of working and just the joy of working? How do you say that? What makes art art art? One image creates a different and romantic mood creates a romantic mood. Very lyrical Mikhail Stalnukhin also gave me such a symphony. I am so sorry that there were no numbers in my speech! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U279	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U280	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, It is nice to listen to good and expert criticism, but it seems to me that my colleague, who appeared before me, expressed the status of his organisation and group, a somewhat schizophrenic and strange situation. But I hope that this will pass, and one day we will be able to have a substantive and constructive debate here. The current draft, which the second reading of the Commission proposes to be interrupted, has undergone significant changes compared to the way it arrived in this Chamber. I have already spoken here at first reading that it would be reasonable to extend the list in the draft in such a way that employers would also be exempt from the payment of the employee health insurance contribution. I hope that we will come back to this proposal in the course of the debate, because, as has been said, this reading will be interrupted. Now, however, I am talking about the important changes that have been added to the draft and which is why we are interrupting the second reading. The implementation of the political will of the new coalitions is always quite similar. In 2015, when the previous coalition started, in which we also participated, tax changes were introduced as a matter of urgency. On 25 May, the draft arrived at the Riigikogu and already on 15 June, 20 days later, it was linked to the government's vote of confidence and the final vote took place in this Chamber. Two weeks ago, a new coalition government took office. We have a newly agreed coalition agreement, which must be seen as a whole. The 2017 amendments are part of a larger governance plan aimed at activating the economy and creating better conditions for raising children. I admit that it is far from good lawmaking practice to put forward a so-called cluster bill, but unfortunately, in order for the coalition to be able to take decisions and act on the basis of what has been agreed, I do not see any other way. The opposition's criticism is partly justified, but some of the people's speeches also have a proper dose of hypocrisy. Looking back in history, we can see that governments led by the Reform Party have adopted a large part of their tax promises at a rapid pace, linking decisions to the government's vote of confidence, if necessary, as I have already referred to. Of course, many of the changes will require more in-depth preparatory work and their impact will not be reflected next year. The reduction of the dividend tax rate, the creation of an entrepreneur account, the taxation of sweetened beverages, the introduction of a bank fee and many other issues will be dealt with in this Chamber at the usual pace during the next financial year. Next year's budget will be EUR 9.5 billion. The fast-enforced changes concern around 1% of this, or EUR 100 million. I will talk about some of the more important issues, because not everything can be dealt with. The most important issue, which is mostly criticised, is the abolition of social tax cuts. True, this was agreed and the pace is fast, but it would be even more strange if we let this fall enter into force for half a year first and then call it back. This would be more costly and unreasonable, including for businesses and the state. Changes relating to income tax refunds are also recalled and a much wider change in labour taxes is proposed, with a EUR 500 tax exemption for people on low wages. A person earning 1200 euros will receive 62 euros more per month, which is 744 euros per year. This amendment will enter into force as indicated in 2018. In a situation where corporate profits and investments are decreasing and wage pressures are increasing, this is clearly a measure that has a positive impact on our economy and businesses. For the half of 2017, an additional family allowance of EUR 300 will apply to families with three children. With these tools, parents can pay for the costs of a number of children's hobbies. Of course, they do not cover all needs. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U281	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U282	However, if we want to have more children, we need to pay more and more attention to this issue, as this measure does. It is also important to mention the abolition of the increase in VAT on accommodation establishments to 14%, while the current rate of 9% remains. There will also be EUR 20 million in much talked about national agricultural subsidies for the following year. There are more issues that fit into this bill. We will be able to talk about these issues in the near future, both in this large Chamber and in the Commission. I hope that we will have a constructive and substantive debate, despite the lack of time. Thank you and the strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U283	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U284	Ladies and gentlemen, I also have some comments on today's debate. At the beginning of the Bill 302 was intended to make some ongoing and minor changes, such as increasing the level of additional income tax exemption for pensions, exemption from income tax on benefits and benefits for relief officers and rescuers and extending the tax exemption on expenditure on the health of employees, granting social tax-free benefits for the second and third days of sickness, etc. The plan for tax changes to the entire state budget for the following year has now been grafted on to the draft. Such a provocative plan to link tax changes to the initial positive changes without being fully discussed and unsubstantiated cannot be an acceptable practice. My sincere wish is to discuss, in the context of the debate on health prevention policy in the Committee on Social Affairs and in this Chamber, the change in excise duty rates on alcohol and the general policy of the coalition on alcohol. The new coalition and the Committee on Monetary Affairs have just limited this possibility of discussion so that two 60-second questions can be asked and this speech can now be delivered. This is not enough; it does not allow a debate on democratic governance. The rapporteur for the bill explained the lack of time as a justification. He argued that although the coalition had recently emerged, tax changes had to be budgeted quickly, ignoring laws and practices. This is not a valid argument because the new coalition was able to start earlier, at any point in time. As we know, the former opposition hesitated for a long time with a motion of mistrust. But, of course, things happen in a hurry. I accept, of course, an apology from the Head of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for having 'forgotten' me to invite the Committee on Monetary Affairs to discuss the amendment, but that does not mean that the amendment to the extension of the exemption should not be discussed in substance. I put my second question on this subject, asking for arguments as to why the amendment was rejected in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Two arguments were put forward: firstly, the lack of public finances, secondly, the fact that we could have done this sooner, during our coalition. I would like to say that neither of these arguments is a criminal and shows that it is probably because of the lack of time that Mikhail Stalnukhin, the head of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has not been able to bring himself up to date at all. Firstly, the amendment to the draft would not have led to additional costs for the state budget, as it was intended as an additional choice among other allocations. Secondly, with regard to the special benefits of spending on sport in the health interest, the Reform Party does not have a single position and, therefore, the entire draft law on special advantages for spending on sport is rather the face of IRL and Sots. I would like to conclude by saying that there is no justification for hassle in disregard of laws and practices. I look forward to the possibility of discussing the substance of one of the most important laws in the country, the state budget law, both in committees and in this Chamber. I hope that now that the call for cancellation has been made, the second reading will also be interrupted and those things that have been caught will be removed from the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U285	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U286	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Today is astonishing. We are used to hearing about the same justification for tax packages from members of the Reform Party Group. But today, when you look at the name of the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it turns out that he is not a Reform Party, but a Central Party, but the confusion of demagoguery or of the corner is still many times stronger than that of the Reform Party, in honour of the truth. What was Mr Stalnukhin's main problem? Of course, there were no answers to the questions. I asked myself, too, on the basis of a letter from the merchants who arrived today concerning border trade. The chairman of the Monetary Commission replied that border trade has always been, and will always be, because certain goods are always cheaper somewhere. This is not an exhaustive answer, because we are now talking about a real increase in excise duty and also about the tendency that 28% of Estonian adults have gone to Latvia at least once to buy alcohol. There's nothing to do with cheap goods that's always been around. In short, it's a lie. It is rather sad to hear this from the representative of the Centre Party, since for a year and a half the Centre Party was one of the most active critics of the government led by the Reform Party, but it is now said that the Reform Party did so. In other words, when a neighbor drives a full-headed car and hits somebody, and if you do the same, you just say that the neighbor did the same thing. Well, it's not an excuse, it's a shame. But I come back to this letter, which speaks specifically of the situation of South-Estonian stores. Today, ten representatives of consumer cooperatives sent letters to all elected delegates from Järva and Viljandi County. I think it deserves to be read out, because the general attitude of the Ministry of Social Affairs and ministers to the problem of alcoholism and public health, which are being put forward when excise duty is being increased, is also very clear here. I begin by saying: 'Dear Helmut Hallemaa (He is our new colleague in this Chamber. J.M.), Helmen Kütt, Jaak Madison, Kersti Sarapuu, Johannes Kert, Jürgen Ligi, Jaanus Marrand and Helir-Valdor Seeder, who have received a mandate from the electoral community of Järva- and Viljandi County! We appeal to you to vote against an unthought-out anti-alcohol legislative amendment, which its designers have justified by false facts to the public and presented it as a public health promotion plan, although similar measures have not produced the desired results in neighbouring countries. We confirm that the common interest of all of us is an improvement in the health of Estonians. However, our clear and direct desire is that all alcohol consumed in Estonia is also purchased from Estonia. Furthermore, as a small country, we must not take any steps that are unthinkable and based on the subjective opinion of a few officials. Cooperation has been the key to the success of our country through the ages, but the decisions that were made in silence in the cabinet resemble a completely different regime, which we have only recently broken out and tried to move away from. In this letter, we point out that the desired objectives are being achieved by directly false and numerically churning. Government representatives have claimed that more than 10 litres of pure alcohol per person is consumed in Estonia; in reality, this number is already eight this year and is decreasing every year. Since eight litres per capita is also the target set in the Green Paper on alcohol, the desired result will be achieved by the end of this year. In several cases, the planners of excise duty increases have publicly claimed that there are over 100000 alcohol addicts in Estonia, but these claims are not based on any study we know. It is important to note that according to the World Health Organisation, the corresponding number in Estonia is actually nearly twice as low. (Now I am going to the letter to the section concerning the Ministry of Social Affairs. J. M.) Minister Ossinovski confirmed already last year that increasing the excise duty on strong alcohol does not increase border trade, but according to Emor, 28% of adults have been buying alcohol from Latvia in the last year. Minister Ossinovski's team now once again argues that raising lean alcohol excise duty does not increase border trade, but the experience of other countries as well as our own real statistics show something else. (And Mr Stalnukhin could not give any specific answers to this question either. J. M.) It has been explained to the public that the increase in excise duty resulted in an increase of 2 million euros in alcohol excise duty in 2015 compared to 2014, but in reality the Ministry of Finance expected an additional income of 22 million euros. ' More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U287	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U288	'Therefore, regular annual growth of more than 10 million euros fell to just two million euros. The draft amendment to the alcohol policy already presented last year contained direct false facts, starting with the number of companies and employees involved, ending with erroneous estimates, for example, of the actual cost of the partitions. The letter goes on with a direct concern about the situation of small shops. It has been pointed out that sales of alcohol in small stores really play a very important role, as people buy everyday consumer goods, including foodstuffs, there, and if a part of the basket is considerably more expensive than their neighbours, then obviously all things are bought at the same time from another shop and therefore the purchase of food in Estonian small stores will also decrease. Now, I'm talking about the attitude of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Well, it's empty of those socialist or even left-wing parties whose goal is to grab as many resources as possible from everyone and then share as little as possible, but equally, so that everyone is on the same level but poor. It is very embarrassing to hear this talk, however, from the members of a party called the National Conservatives, which is called the Fatherland and Res Publica Union in the Commercial Register. The party that calls itself the patriots, the right-wing party, is actually one of the biggest players in the current project, which is going against the most basic democratic principles. They have already done so before, so it is not surprising, but now their accomplice is the Central Party, which for a year and a half fought against such action by the Reform Party. It is precisely the extinction of small places that continues to be part of the IRL, because its participation in the current coalition encourages border trade, that people start consuming even more in Latvia and take their money to Latvia. Finally. I am truly sorry for the ordinary members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, many of whom have also come to our door with a statement. They don't have any other choice now, because no one understands what their leadership is doing. These people do not understand why there is a government that wants to relax citizenship policy and change language learning programmes, kill out Estonian rural areas and implement cluster initiatives in conflict with all democratic and parliamentary principles. So, I guess I don't have to add anything to the previous speakers. Of course we are against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U289	There's no more calls. To the 302 bill, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has also included a table of amendments which we need to revise. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Free Party Group, but has not been taken into account. The President hereby accepts the explanations given by the chairman of the committee in his statement on the draft. This proposal received only one vote in the Commission and has been disregarded. Amendment 5 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 6 is from Mr Jaanson and has been disregarded. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U291	Okay, let's do it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 6, tabled by Jüri Jaanson, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The sixth amendment was supported by 37 members of the Riigikogu and was opposed by 48, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. May I interrupt the Ducks and Palling for a moment? No, I don't think so. Mr. Parts and Palling, may I disturb you? I'd really appreciate it. I would be delighted if, during the vote, we were to maintain such a calm mood that no slogans would come from here. Thank you. The seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Free Party, which the Commission has disregarded, is already underway. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U292	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U293	Got it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 7 tabled by the Group of the Free Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the amendment and 49 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 8, tabled by the Free Party Group, which has been rejected by the commission. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U294	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U295	Can we go to the vote, honourable Riigikogu? I shall put to the vote Amendment 8, tabled by the Free Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the amendment and 48 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and rejected by the commission. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U296	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U297	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Free Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and 48 were against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 10th amendment tabled by the Free Party Group has been disregarded. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U298	Of course, I would also like to put this motion to a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U299	Sure, that's what we're gonna do. I shall put to the vote Amendment 10 tabled by the Group of the Free Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the amendment and 47 were against, with no abstentions. This amendment, too, was not supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Free Party, which has been disregarded. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U300	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U301	Please! I shall put to the vote Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Free Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 11 is then that 37 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and 49 against, with 0 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. The 12th amendment is made by the Free Party Group, which has been disregarded. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U302	I would also like to ask for this motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U303	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 12 tabled by the Free Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand! 36 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and 46 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Group of the Free Party, which has been disregarded. Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U304	I would certainly ask that this amendment be put to the vote as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U305	Let's do it for sure. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 13 tabled by the Free Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please vote! Amendment 13 was supported by 37 members of the Riigikogu and 48 were opposed, with no abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This amendment contains a sharp increase in illegal labour taxes, so we call for it to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U307	Honourable MP Kristen Michal! You certainly have the right to put the amendment to the vote, but the time for negotiations was somewhat earlier. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 14 tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 14 was supported by 49 members of the Riigikogu and 37 were opposed by no one. The amendment was supported. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U308	Thank you, Mr President. I am also asking for a proposal that actually contains a number of proposals and which is almost impossible to vote, however, to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U309	Mr Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 15, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and which, of course, has been fully taken into account by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 46 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 15 and 37 against no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 16 tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been fully taken into account. The 17th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Amendment 18 from the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been fully taken into account. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account. I'm sorry, I think I was too fast! Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U310	Honourable Chairman! We would certainly like to vote on Amendment 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U311	Which one? Oh, 19th. I'm sorry! I wasn't watching. Honourable Riigikogu, attention! I shall put to the vote Amendment 19, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 49 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 19 and 37 against no abstentions. The amendment has been supported. Amendment 20 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and is fully taken into account. Amendment 21 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We ask for the vote on Amendment 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U313	Got it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 21, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 48 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 21 and 37 against no abstentions. The amendment was supported. Dear Riigikogu, the proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is to interrupt the second reading of Bill 302. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 9 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U314	Our next item is the second reading of Bill 297 of the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Finance Committee waitress, Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U315	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you a bill on investment funds. This has come after a long and thorough debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at second reading. The draft itself... [[???Pöördub juhataja poole: 'Äkki me saame kuidagi ...?' Juhataja helistab kella.???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U316	Ladies and gentlemen, We have two other items on the agenda, and they are both important. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U317	That's right, both of these drafts are important. Reminder: the draft Law on Investment Funds makes the Estonian fund market more attractive and promotes competition in the pension fund market, facilitates the addition of new pension fund managers to the market and makes the exchange of pension funds considerably cheaper for people. I'm gonna go back to history for a second. Three days after the initiation of the draft here in the Riigikogu and the adoption of the procedure, the Finance Committee addressed ten parties, a lobby or a umbrella organisation for an opinion. Five of them forwarded their views to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In addition, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry wrote to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The main question that led to substantive disagreements was whether to limit the possibility of changing pension units so that it would be possible once a year instead of the three procedures currently provided for by law. In the Commission's discussion, the possibility of exchange of shares was considered to be a measure in the interest of the pension collectors and to promote competition between the funds and the draft was not amended in this respect. Maybe all of you, ladies and gentlemen, will be able to exchange the pension fund three times a year, just like all the other people in the future. This, of course, should it seem reasonable to you, it is not compulsory. No proposals were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline of 9 November, but the Ministry of Finance asked for amendments to the draft as the representative of the initiator. In the Committee on Finance, we discussed these amendments on 14 November and 5 December. At these meetings, we discussed both the requests that had come in writing and the proposals made by the Ministry of Finance. The proposals made by the Ministry of Finance were mainly technical. The written comments and questions submitted by the stakeholders were taken into account and resolved in a consensual manner. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Commission made 21 amendments to the draft. Most of them relate to new types of funds entering the market. The proposals of the market participants were received by the ministries only at the end of the summer and in the autumn, which is why they have been included in the draft during the parliamentary procedure. As a reminder, the Law on Investment Funds has been done for years, the text of the draft and the explanatory memorandum resemble two or three bricks, so very serious work is hopefully coming to an end. There was also a change in the draft relating to index funds. There it is proposed to increase the possibility for Estonian pension funds to invest in index funds, and instead of 10%, 30% of the assets could be invested in them. In addition, the draft contains a number of technical specifications. All amendments are explained in the table of amendments. If there's any questions about them, I'll answer. As I said, the Commission was consensual when discussing this draft. Our proposal is to conclude the second reading of the bill. When the second reading is closed, we propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the third reading and adopted next Wednesday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U318	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Remo Holsmer! Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. We will go to the examination of the amendments. 21 amendments have been tabled on the draft, as the rapporteur has already mentioned. We'll go through them all together. The first amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The second proposal is presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment has also been taken fully into account by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, including the fourth, fifth and sixth amendments, as well as the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth amendments. Amendments 11 and 12 - the decision is to take full account. Amendment 13 as well as Amendments 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, as well as Amendments 19, 20 and 21, the decision of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined 21 amendments to the draft. The proposal of the commission, as Remo Holsmer has also informed us, is to conclude the second reading of Bill 297. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U319	Today's last item, item 17, is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would like to ask Mr Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Monetary Commission, to present his speech on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U320	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft 321 in preparation for its second reading at its meeting on 21 November and 5 December. No amendments were received by the deadline of 29 November at 5.15 p.m. No amendments were received from the stakeholders involved. The Financial Supervision Authority made some technical comments. The text also contains linguistic and technical specifications. Let me briefly talk about the substance of the draft. The draft takes over Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the comparability of fees relating to payment accounts, the exchange of payment accounts and access to basic payment accounts, the Payment Account Directive. In order to transpose it, the Law on Obligations, the Law on Payment Institutions and E-money Institutions, the Law on Financial Supervision, the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on Consumer Protection must be amended. The changes resulting from the Payment Account Directive concern, in particular, payment accounts opened to a natural person, in the context of the draft, and the provision of related payment services. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission took the following decisions: we proposed that the draft be put on the agenda for today, Wednesday, 7 December and the second reading of the draft be stopped. I will also say that these decisions and proposals were made in a consensual manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-07_U321	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. Then I have to tell you that there have been no amendments to the draft, and the proposal of the commission of directors, as Mr Sõerd said, is to conclude the second reading of Bill 321. Second reading is complete. We will also conclude today's working day here in the big hall. Thank you for your work. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 19.26 p.m.
