ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Attention! We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 7th working week. First of all, members of the Riigikogu are able to deliver drafts and questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! Coalitions come and go, but parties generally stay or at least have a longer life span. As once said by a former member of the Riigikogu and a former minister who has now left politics: a functioning party is our national wealth and must be preserved. I know that the proposals of the Free Party, which have been about reducing the funding of political parties and recalling the so-called 'two chairs' law, have caused a bit of frustration and impatience in the partners. But believe that our long-term goal is that the Estonian political party system and the political system as a whole function smoothly. Luckily, there's better news. A party in the Riigikogu has just reported that the debts of the elections have been paid and that in the future, efforts will be made to prevent the election campaign from being made indebted. I believe that the Centre Party will also be able to sort things out with new leadership, in the meantime they have become very confusing. We discovered a provision in the party law that says that the Political Financing Monitoring Commission must, as if, take responsibility for it and help political parties out of trouble if they are in a big negative position. In our view, this is not realistic and we believe that it would be a perfectly proportionate sanction if a party whose net assets have been negative for two consecutive years would not receive public support in the next two years. I'm handing over a proposal to amend the party law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U3	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and the Management Board processes it on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. There are four items on the agenda today. The first of these is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I would like to present a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, It was only yesterday that an inquiry was discussed in this Chamber, in which everything relating to the problem that this draft decision is trying to resolve was repeated. That's why I'm not gonna go over all this for a long time. We have heard on several occasions in this hall that since the building management company is unable to pay for the heat, the buildings will be turned off from the heating system. I'm just introducing the proposal we're making to the Government of the Republic. This is as follows: to solve the problem that the non-payment of co-ownership costs by part of the owners or owners of apartments leads to a situation where the heating of the apartments of people who have performed their duties properly is not guaranteed during the winter period and the condition of these apartments deteriorates. I have an overview of how big the debts of apartment buildings have been over the years. This applies to one municipality of Ida-Viru, but it shows the situation quite well. There is also a letter from the Ministry of Justice about what measures could be helpful in this situation, and a letter from the Chancellor of Justice, accompanied by letters from the heads of three housing associations, of course, are located in Kohtla-Järve, where he, as a practitioner, expresses his views on what these measures could be to solve the problem. Finally, I have to say that the total debt of housing companies compared to what it was a year ago has been reduced by about eight times. At the moment, no house has been turned off in Kohtla-Järve, but that does not mean that the problem has been solved. If you have any questions about this, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U6	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the debate at the Riigikogu Economic Committee took place on Monday 24 October. The author of the draft decision, Mikhail Stalnukhin, explained that in relation to the debts of the housing associations to heat companies, heating is excluded from many apartment buildings. According to the Chancellor of Justice, this year it is about 100 problem houses, about 25 of which are located in Kohtla-Järve and about 25 elsewhere in Ida-Virumaa. A separate problem is the causes of debt, mainly in economically weaker regions. At the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 25 February 2016, it was decided that the Minister of Enterprise would set up a working group on analysing the debts of housing cooperatives to make the necessary changes. Unfortunately, this Commission has not yet proposed a solution. A brief debate was held in the Committee on Economic Affairs on this subject, which asked about the same subject matter in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Karin Sillmann, Head of the Construction and Housing Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, explained that the Commission had officially met once and twice informally. Local government associations, association of housing associations and local authorities in problem areas have been contacted. As a result of the conversions, there is now only one house without heat supply, for which consideration is given to whether or not to switch to a local heating system. Thus, the problem has been resolved for this heating period. However, it cannot be ruled out to recur. A study, including a crisis plan, will be commissioned to solve the problem, as decided by the working group meeting. Rein Vaks, expert of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, added that the working group of the Ministry has prepared an overview of the activities of the working group for the meeting. He introduced a memo setting out the dynamics of debts. According to this, debts will be incurred during the heating period and will be wound up during the summer period. There was an interest in the working group finding legal solutions for situations where some owners do not pay for the heat and the responsibility for it falls to the building management company. The answer was that this problem would not go away, but insolvent people had started to give up apartment property. This means that the state will become owner and hand them over to Riigi Kinnisvara AS. The working group must, among other things, consider how to proceed with such apartment property. Cooperation with the Ministry of Justice is planned in relation to ownership obligations. The goal of getting decent payers together in a single house depends largely on the financial capacity of local authorities. For example, projects of this type have been well launched in Valga, as real estate prices are probably higher there than in Ida-Virumaa. Mikhail Stalnukhin, as the initiator of the draft, commended the work of the Working Group of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and expressed the hope that the information, according to which there is now only one house to heat, was correct. And by the time this bill is being discussed in this Chamber, there is no one house that was problematic. So by this winter, a solution to the problem has been found in cooperation between the local government and other parties. And that should be the case in the future. Now the decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today (this was consensual) and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote (as well as a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U8	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if any of the local government leaders were present at the committee meeting. If not, the question arises: if we are talking about, say, the Kohtla-Järve City Government, why are the people who are taking the lead in the city, its council or the city government not invited to the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U10	No, it wasn't. The opinion of the Kohtla-Järve people was probably represented by Mikhail Stalnukhin, the initiator of the draft, who is sufficiently informed. I don't think there's any reason to doubt that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U11	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U12	Thank you. Dear waitress, The originator referred to a number of cooperatives and municipalities where these problems exist. Maybe you're repeating what information the Ministry of Economic Affairs gave us by presenting your statistics on the real problems in Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U13	According to a summary received by the Economic Commission on 24 October, the following municipalities have problems: Ahtme, Kohtla-Järve and Jõhvi. According to information at the time, heating was switched off in only one municipality and one apartment building, located in Ahtme. As I said, this problem has now been resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U14	Thank you. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups and committees have the desire to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 289. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we will do a verification of the presence. 44 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 57. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 289. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft did not find any support and would fall out of the procedure. Our first item today has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U15	Let's keep going. The second item is the second reading of draft law 257 amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present to you a draft 257 procedures in the lead committee between first and second readings. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 6 June 2016. The first reading was September 29th. The deadline for tabling amendments was 11 October. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose any amendments to the draft. However, the Committee on the Environment decided to submit ten proposals for the draft. In preparation for the second reading, the Commission discussed the draft at two meetings. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, the Association of Estonian Cities and the Tallinn Environment Board took part in the meeting on 24 October. During the hearing, the participants presented their views on the draft, which were supportive. In addition, the participants forwarded proposals for possible amendments to the members of the Commission. At its meeting on 7 November, a representative of the Ministry of the Environment took part in the discussion, whose proposal made some improvements to the date of entry into force. The most important amendment of the ten amendments proposed by the Committee on the Environment was the one bearing the number 5. We know that according to Paragraph 67 (5) of the Waste Act, local authorities must determine transport areas by calculating that the minimum size of the area ensures the completion of the waste vehicle by a single collection circle and that the population of the region must not normally exceed 30000. There are therefore 13 transport areas in Tallinn, 4 in Tartu, 3 in Narva and 2 in Pärnu. If the original version of the draft provides that if the transport of municipal waste has not been carried out, even in one transport area, the municipality will lose its money. In cooperation with the Cities Association, the Rural Municipalities Association and the City of Tallinn, the Commission proposed the content of which is, in short, as follows: if the territory of a local government unit is divided into several transport areas in accordance with § 67 (5) of the Waste Act, the condition set out in § 72 (4) (2) applies separately for each transport area and the aid is granted according to the number of geographical address objects for which the condition is met. The Commission also made procedural decisions and proposals. At its meeting on 24 October, the Commission decided to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 8 November and to propose that the second reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U17	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The Association of Estonian Cities has written in its opinion that they consider it very important to establish a new financing model to cover the obligations of local governments in relation to waste management. They consider that, on the basis of the current wording, the question arises as to whether support may not be foreseen at all if it is decided that there are still no possibilities in the state budget. However, this is only clear after the adoption of the state budget for a given year. Do you not think that municipalities need a little more certainty about this support?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U19	Thank you. Indeed, this is a very big step forward in the management of waste that the funding for municipalities and waste development is changing. This year, EUR 2.2 million has been earmarked for this. Yes, the Cities Association made two proposals, one of which pointed out that this bill was based on the possibilities of the state budget. In the Commission, we drew the attention of the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments to the need for efforts and work to ensure that this amount will be higher in future so that it grows next year. This certainly depends on the hall where we are now, depending on the Riigikogu. So my answer is that if we look at the law, it could indeed be one million and five million euros in the year over. But the state budget will ultimately be put together by the Riigikogu and I think there are people here who understand the concerns of the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U20	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You indicated that the transport areas would be determined according to the capacity of the garbage truck. Can the transport area also be "cross-border' if the smaller municipality really could not create such a large transport area that the car would be filled in one municipality? Can the transport area also be cross-border and, if so, does it have any effect on financing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U22	Thank you. Could be cross-border. However, this draft does not specifically affect the size of the transport area and the associated working arrangements. But because of the Waste Act, that might be the case. This draft specifically concerns funding, how money will be distributed to local authorities for waste management. The principle of the draft act is that the amount is based on the number of addressees, i.e. the number of registered households. It is currently almost EUR 2 per addressee. If amended, the amount allocated to waste management in the municipal purse will increase accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U23	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Ten amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment, as well as the position of the steering committee proposed by the Committee on the Environment, should be taken fully into account. Third amendment, the position proposed by the Committee on the Environment, the lead committee: take full account. The fourth amendment, the position of the steering committee proposed by the Committee on the Environment, should be taken fully into account. Fifth amendment, position proposed by the Committee on the Environment, lead committee: take full account. The sixth amendment, the position of the steering committee put forward by the Committee on the Environment, is to be taken fully into account. The seventh amendment, proposed by the Committee on the Environment, proposed by the lead committee: take full account. The eighth amendment, the position of the steering committee proposed by the Committee on the Environment, is to be taken fully into account. The ninth amendment, as well as the position of the steering committee proposed by the Committee on the Environment, should be taken fully into account. And the tenth amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the position of the commission: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 257. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U24	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the Rescue Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Bill amending the Police and Border Guard Act 309. I'd like a presentation from Secretary of State Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll be quick and brief today. You will be faced with the proposal to create a database for the processing of emergency reports in order to bring the processing of police, border guards and emergency and rescue events together and to give the whole of this responsibility to the Alert Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U26	Thank you for a very meaningful and concise presentation. My colleagues have no questions. Now I would like to ask for a presentation of Mr Uno Kaskpeit, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U27	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 24 October. Rene Berting, Head of the Information Monitoring Department of the Ministry of the Interior, presented the content and objectives of the draft. He explained that pursuant to the Rescue Act in force, one database was established to carry out the tasks of the Rescue Board and the Alert Centre, the controller of which is the Rescue Board and the processor of which is the Alert Centre. The PSAP is currently handling rescue, ambulance and police emergency reports. Therefore, data are collected which are not only related to the tasks of the rescue agencies. The Rescue Board cannot authorise anyone to further process the emergency alert record as it is not acting on behalf of the Rescue Board (emergency and police emergency). Thus, instead of the current rescue information system, two separate databases will be created and the regulation of the database as a whole laid down in the Rescue Act will be updated to ensure that it is sufficiently flexible and appropriate. The draft also provides a legal basis for the full processing of all 112 emergency alerts in a common IT environment. Nothing changes for ordinary citizens. The Commission was interested in what is happening to the processing and storage of personal data of residents. They were just thinking about the data received when receiving and registering emergency reports. Rene Berting said that this database meant that the data would be collected as little as possible and as much as necessary. Time limits for the storage of data have also been negotiated. Data shall be stored in the alert centre's database for two years, after which the data shall be modified so that the personal data are no longer identifiable. The Commission's consensual proposals are to conclude the first reading of the draft and propose to set a shorter deadline than usual for amendments, i.e. 11 November at 16 a.m. The draft should still be adopted as a law this year and enter into force on 1 January 2017, which resulted in the Commission's decision to propose a shorter deadline for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U28	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 309. I will set the deadline for submitting 309 amendments. a on 11 November 2006 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's third item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U29	Let's keep going. First reading of the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group 265. I ask Andrei Novikov, member of the Riigikogu, to present a report! The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U30	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the President is over and we will proceed on the agenda. First reading of the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group 265. Please waitress Andrei Novikov, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U31	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry you had to wait! You have before you the law amending the Law on Alcohol and Advertising. The incentive to initiate the bill was the long-standing indecision of the government, which is now about to end with the break-up of the government. I'm sure everyone is familiar with this law because there's been a lot of talk about it. Overall, adequate social attention has been achieved. The draft law has been developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and is based on the Green Paper on alcohol policy since 2014. Despite the importance of the draft and the government's commitment to implement this legislative amendment immediately, the draft has been on the government's coordination circle since 2015. In the meantime, several draft laws in the same area developed by the Centre Party have been voted down in the Chamber of Riigikogu, and this is on the grounds that a government bill will immediately arrive, which will solve all problems in one law at a time. The best example is the proposal to ban the sale of alcohol in gas station stores throughout the country, with which the Central Party Group came out last autumn. The government's position at the time was that since the draft legislation on alcohol, which was drafted by the Ministry of Social Affairs and amended for coordination, already contains a point and other measures, there is no point in supporting the opposition's draft. In order to overcome the deadlock, the Central Party Group of the Riigikogu submitted a draft amendment to the Government's own Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act, which the Government has been unable to coordinate for more than half a year. This is a rare case in which the opposition supports the coalition's draft rather than doing so and acting in the political culture style that has long been honored, based on the principle that the wrong person must not do the right thing. This is what we are doing out of the screaming need of a government that has been unable to work for a long time, and because of its indecisiveness, areas that are very important in society and need a solution today. According to the National Institute for Health Development, about 500 people died last year as a result of the indirect effects of alcohol and another 500 people. A total of 15,000 deaths each year were caused by 1,000 alcohols. This should be a clear signal to the Heads of State that alcohol policy needs to be corrected, and quickly. Drinking is not a personal problem for a drinker; it often affects his family and other people because of domestic violence, crime, and the number of road accidents. Preventive and mitigating measures are needed to avoid these problems. It is the task of the state to take firm steps to protect its citizens. To sum up this idea, alcohol consumption in Estonia is actually affecting all people, whether it be traffic, crime or domestic violence. In dealing with the core of the problem, we can also help people around drunks. In order to avoid a dead end, the Riigikogu must send a clear signal to society that it cannot go on. Executive power has to come to its senses or just get out of the way. Unfortunately, in our country, it has been forgotten that the Riigikogu is not just a body that confirms the decisions of the government. The Riigikogu is also able to design legislative acts and shape the legal space itself. The draft is certainly not ideal; there are both the right developments and aspects that need discussion and consideration. The right direction is to make it more difficult to access alcohol, either by placing it separately from other goods or by empowering local authorities to impose time restrictions on the sale of alcoholic beverages. At the same time, there are also more complex provisions relating, for example, to the regulation of control transactions or the prohibition of alcohol advertising. However, I believe that these difficulties can be overcome and that, between two readings, everything can be clarified if necessary. In summary, however, it must be acknowledged that the draft is correct and that this law would help to protect public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U32	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This draft was left uncoordinated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. What was the reason for this, and what were their suggestions or wishes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U34	No position has been expressed by the Government on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U35	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U36	Thank you. Honourable waitress! There is an interesting provision in this draft that alcohol may not be sold in a retail or catering establishment operating on the territory of a gas station. What difference does it make whether it's gas station territory or, I don't know, bicycle rental or car service territory or something like that? I'm sure that's a strange suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U37	I agree that the territory of a gas station is, in fact, a relatively complex concept. It was also one of the shortcomings of the government bill that made it stand. I believe that this can be clarified during the inter-reading period.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U38	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Please, would you be a little more specific about how this bill suggests that the age of the purchaser of alcohol may be determined in a new way? It says here that this regulation will be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U40	I think you mean the control deal. In the case of a control transaction, the purpose of the draft is indeed to better identify the age of the person. It's kind of hard right now. At the same time, there are a number of shortcomings in the regulation of the control transaction in the draft, such as that the control transaction should be possible to be carried out by an official. However, according to ATS, the official is a person at least 18 years old, a person who can essentially buy alcohol. It is also a nuance that the control transaction is essentially an investigation of a misdemeanour. Practically, a control transaction is a imitation, but there is not much tolerance for imitation of a misdemeanour. So there's a whole series of drawbacks here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U41	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I ask for a presentation by Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Economic Commission for the Speaker's Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U42	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act at its meeting on 17 October. a. Andrei Novikov was invited to the meeting of the Commission as the representative of the initiator of the draft, who very briefly presented the draft and explained the reasons for initiating it. At the meeting of the Commission, it was decided not to open the debate on the substance of the draft for two reasons. Firstly, because the draft 265 is identical to the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic's pending Ministry of Social Affairs. In fact, this is quite an unprecedented case, and in the literary world, it might come under a great deal of criticism if someone copied someone's text and published it under their own name. In this case, the initiators have done so. This is one-to-one rewriting of the draft pending by the Government of the Republic and submitting it under its own name by the initiators. There is another reason why the substantive debate was not opened. I have to make an important clarification here. A good colleague of Andrei suggested that the Government of the Republic has not said anything about this bill. Actually, it is. The position of the Government of the Republic is, inter alia, on 18 August, where the Government of the Republic announces that it will refrain from giving an opinion on this draft, for the reason I have referred to it. With regard to the draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Government of the Republic has not yet finalised its position; the comments of the ministries are still being discussed. That is actually the second reason why we did not open the substantive debate: by the time the draft was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, we did not have the substantive position of the Government of the Republic. The debate on the subject was just under way. The third reason, of course, is what the initiator's representative also referred to. Andrei Novikov also stressed at the meeting of the Commission that one of the objectives of initiating the draft is for the Government of the Republic to deal with the draft more quickly and finally reach an agreement. As a result, the following procedural decisions were taken at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Firstly, to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 8 November (the decision was consensual), secondly, to close the first reading (the decision was also consensual), and thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 December 2016 at 5 p.m. (the decision was also consensual). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U43	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have stated that it is unclear who is the author of this draft. Is it clear in this draft who the author is? Is this the Ministry of Social Affairs or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U45	Thank you for your question. I do not think that finding the authorship of the draft is the most difficult task of adopting an analogous draft prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs. It coincides with the draft that we are currently discussing. I'm still based on the assumption that the Ministry of Social Affairs made this draft before you did, not the other way around. So its authorship belongs to the Ministry of Social Affairs, not to the initiators of the 265 draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U46	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U47	Andrei Novikov did not receive an answer to the question whether the draft itself clearly stated that the author was the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'll ask you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U48	Thank you. I'm sorry, it's not said. In my opinion, it would even be correct to say in the draft itself that this is a draft initiated by the Ministry of Social Affairs, it would be understandable. However, being correct and precise, I note that Mr Novikov, the initiator's representative at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, referred to this. So it was clear to the Commission at the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U49	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U50	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm trying to remember how things were going, and I think a few days ago, Kadri Simson also said that they went to help the Socialists by presenting this bill. Indeed, there was no debate in the Commission. Is there any reason to believe that these negotiations were actually held at the time and that, in essence, there had been agreement in a situation where we are now, and that, therefore, it was agreed to support this draft with such a single voice?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U51	Good colleague! I do think that to start putting together a new coalition with a lie, just like yesterday morning no one knew what this day was going to end with, it's a very bad start for the new coalition. Clearly, substantive negotiations have taken place much earlier. I do not think it is right to deceive the Estonian people, the Estonian voters. If there's a desire to lie with someone else, you can't blame it on anyone. But start with a lie, just like suddenly the thought came in the morning, and by evening the coalition came together, it certainly isn't competent to operate. On the other hand, I will also say this in the context of the draft we are debating today, of course this cooperation will be in the future, and the amendment of these laws in some form will also be approved. I certainly support a restriction on the availability of alcohol, but I will say such a substantive reply: obviously, the economic dimension is also important. Are these restrictions proportionate to the objectives set? Do they make every economic sense and make sense? That's why I'm actually pretty worried and especially looking at this new coalition. So far, we have had a balancing element in the form of right-wing parties, and now, unfortunately, we can no longer rely on the IRL in this respect. I fear that, from a business point of view, there is a risk that this will be a very high economic burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U52	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U53	Just for the sake of the verbatim: could you repeat the date on which this debate in the Commission took place? Please tell us which members of the new party of the Fatherland took part in this meeting of the Commission so that those members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union across Estonia would also understand that since when have these negotiations been conducted and the consensus has already been reached to put together the left coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U54	Thank you. I think it is important to clarify that the members of the new party of the Fatherland did not attend this meeting, but the members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association attended this meeting, which took place on 17 October inclusive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-08_U55	Thank you, colleagues, for a very educational exchange. No further questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 265. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 265 amendments, including 5 December at 5 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is over and the session is closed. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 10.50 a.m.
