ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U1	Good morning, good fellows, honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 8th working week on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U2	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have the honour to address to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection, a request for special welfare investment grants. On 18 September last year, the Decree of the Minister for Social Protection entitled "Reorganisation of Special Welfare Institutions' entered into force, which laid down the conditions for special welfare investment grants. The objectives of the operational programme shall be financed from the European Regional Development Fund for a total amount of EUR 47 million. The co-financing of the action by the Estonian State is planned for more than 6 million euros. This activity will result in the creation of at least 1400 high-quality special care services. The Regulation and its explanatory memorandum state that the purpose of the grant is to ensure better living, learning and working conditions for people with special psychological needs. People with special mental needs still need private and home accommodation, but they need first to adapt to activities within their unit's borders, further in the vicinity, in order to later make more active use of the facilities. It is possible to create normal living conditions in new units that ensure privacy and greater personal attention and an individual approach. Service places are created in a community that offers the possibility to link the daily activities of customers to the local community, while the regulation establishes the conditions for the location of the service provider. The establishment of up to three-digit service units in a settlement with at least 300 permanent residents and the creation of more than three-digit service units in a settlement with a number of permanent residents of at least 1000 shall be eligible. In rural areas, we have a number of institutions and businesses providing special care services that do not meet the requirements of the regulation. We therefore have a number of questions for the Minister for Social Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U4	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! On behalf of the seven ambassadors of the Estonian Free Party, I have the honour and pleasure to present an inquiry to the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. The question is about teaching the Estonian language to adults and we have five questions here. The questions focus primarily on the extent to which adult people can receive basic language learning. How well does this language learning take into account the different needs of people, and how is all such language learning organised? Will this be sustainable even after the ESF funding ends? We believe that improving the teaching of the Estonian language is one of those activities that will contribute to the coherence of our society and also to the fact that the basis of the Estonian language in the form of more and more speakers will be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U5	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Erki Savisaare, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I have the honour to present an inquiry on behalf of 21 parliamentarians to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas on the subject of population depletion. The Estonian population is projected to decline by nearly 10% by 2040, by about 120,000 people, or 1.19 million people. At the same time, an ageing population and an even faster decline in the working age population are expected. In parallel with the decrease in birth rates, life expectancy has increased, which means that the decline in the working age population is accompanied by an increase in the size of older age groups. According to Statistics Estonia, there were 54 dependants for 115 to 64-year-olds in 2015, compared to 70 in 2040. The demographic labour market pressure index, which shows the share of those entering the labour market compared to those leaving the labour market, is expected to rise from 0.78 in 2014 to 0.87 in 10 years, but will then gradually decline to 0.68 by 2040. According to the Employers' Confederation, there are on average 5,000 employees missing in Estonia up to 2040 per year. Consequently, we have a total of four questions. I hope that the Prime Minister has thought about these issues and has a good plan for action on how to change this trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U7	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U8	Mr President, and all the other fellow Members. I managed to get the signatures of eight members from the Free Party Group, and we discussed this Estonian sign thing among ourselves. We don't quite understand why it's gone like this, but it seems to me, as a well-known journalist said, that accidents will happen when unimaginable politics and marketing meet. Things are going bad, these competitions are going to fail. And apparently, no country brand in the world has succeeded in creating such competitions; this work must still be different and more systematic. We are also interested in links with all other initiatives. At the end of last year, the former Prime Minister announced Team Estonia for the organisation of export refunds and there are other initiatives. In our opinion, they are rather fragmented, sometimes dubious, and sometimes they are more of a substitute. We would like to spend a Monday evening here to discuss these issues thoroughly with Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U9	Good fellows! I have adopted four inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu's board of directors, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu's board decides on their further proceedings. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U10	Let's start working on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Public Transport Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi and Urve Palo. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Viktoria Ladynskaja, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please speak in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This law and this amendment are very important, because they show perfectly that there are problems not only with one law but with integration at all. And I am pleased that there have been so many examples of this change in this Chamber that the country's integration policy refuses to work. I guess the right time has come to review our integration tactics. I would like to begin by stressing one more important point. We're talking about two different laws. One of them is the Public Transport Act. Let me remind you what the situation is now. A new section of the Public Transport Act was due to enter into force on 1 April, which could result in about 500 taxi drivers in Narva becoming unemployed. Currently, the law provides for the existence of a service card and this can only be obtained if the taxi driver shows by 1 April a document certifying that he can speak Estonian at B1 level. The Estonian language skills of the taxi drivers of Narva do not meet the requirements, so on 1 April there would be 500 more unemployed people in our border town. It was precisely so that this would not happen that the date recognised by the previous Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure was to be postponed or cancelled. At the moment, we are therefore dealing with reducing the risk of loss of employment in Ida-Virus. Another fact is that the language law and the government regulation remain valid as they have been. The language requirement remains valid. It is a brilliant medium: people do not lose their jobs and the language requirement remains. But coming back to what happened in this Chamber on Tuesday, I would like to say that I also understand the criticism that sounded in this Chamber at second reading. Aren't we really gonna put this problem in the closet? I will say: I will not, because I very much hope that it is now clear to everyone that integration policy needs major changes. To prove this, let me give you a specific example of example No 1. I asked the Integration and Migration Foundation Our People (MISA) to answer the question of what opportunities we have to learn Estonian. I found out there were three options. First of all, online self-learning on the website language klikk.ee. Let's be realistic, this option is meant for young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U12	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall, that's a word from every line. Please, let's honor the waitress and those who want to listen. Thank you! Good waitress, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U13	Thank you. Another option is paid language courses at the beginning of the course you will pay money and after passing the exam you will get your money back through Innove. Hence the mathematical question that I put to the Commission's rapporteur at second reading on Tuesday. If a person earns about 500 euros and has a family, children, house taxes, and he wants to eat, will he be able to arrange some 300 euros for language courses? Especially when his motivation is low because everyone around is speaking Russian. It's just a region specific. Let us once again be realistic people who wish to learn the official language, but not everyone can afford it. The third option is the most real: free language courses. Unfortunately, there are currently 5,000 people who wish to learn Estonian. As a country, we demand that people speak Estonian, but at the same time there are 5 000 people waiting in the order of language learning. Although the three options have been financed by the State, there are some EUR 1.5 million per year, the result is, unfortunately, questionable. Now a specific example of No 2. It is said that the people of Narva do not even want to speak Estonian. That's not entirely true. I specified the latest monitoring data yesterday, which showed a surprising tendency. When a person from Ida-Virumaa has started to speak Estonian, he will travel to Tallinn or Tartu as the next step and will not stay in Ida-Virumaa. Statistically, we see that it's like no one there is learning anything, but we should ask why people are going away. They go because by acquiring language skills they have improved their competitiveness and are now going where they can demonstrate this competitiveness. Hence the second problem: economic. How long can this region be economically isolated? We need a firm strategy long ago specifically to revitalise the Ida-Viru region. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U14	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U15	Specific example No 3. Another interesting detail regarding language courses. MISA has organised free courses. Like I said, 5,000 people stand in line, waiting. And now worried letters from Narva, Tallinn and Pärnu began to come. What's wrong with people? Allowed courses are postponed at all times. Why? You don't think there's any money? No, there are no teachers. Yesterday, the MISA leader admitted it in an online interview. I think our national language policy is rotting. Not because the laws are not strict enough, they are still strict, but because there is no understanding of how they can be implemented. I call on the Government, and especially the Minister for Culture, to think about what is still the purpose of the existence of the Integration and Migration Foundation Our People (MISA). We have reviewed the activities of the Development Fund and we also need to take a keen look at the activities of MISA. It's an honor now. It cannot be demanded, but at the same time it cannot offer sufficient opportunities to meet the requirement. WHAT should now show that their activities are of real, practical benefit to society. WHAT should give those who want to learn the language the opportunity to do so as a matter of urgency. Why else would we need an integration foundation? Now, another very important issue. I was talking about practical opportunities to learn the language and from an economic point of view, and now I am also talking about the third important moment, which is symbolic, but also practical. This is the presence of the Estonian state in Ida-Virus. I have the project of the Estonian language house in my hands. The Estonian language building, which works as a foundation, will be the centre for learning the Estonian language, actively using the Estonian language, improving the quality of teaching the Estonian language and developing the knowledge-how in Narva. The Estonian Language House will offer Estonian language education and an environment in Estonian to all residents of Narva. Most of the opportunities offered are free of charge for people visiting the house. The author of the idea is Kristina Kallas, the current head of Narva College, and this idea has also been introduced in his Ida-Viru strategy by the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. I think this house should be operating in Narva next year. And I would also like to see a similar house on Lasnamäe if some people have an interest in Estonian language and culture, then they could go there, test their knowledge and find everything they need to develop language skills. Finally, I come back to the problem of taxi drivers. I believe that the drivers of the Narva taxi will now, to some extent, become a symbol of the solution to problematic issues. I have been told here and there that the Narva people do not want to learn Estonian. When I announced that the taxi drivers in Narva might report their study request, more than 150 people signed up to my e - mail within two days. By now, there are about 200 requests. These are the people from whom the state demands the knowledge of the Estonian language, but at the same time they do not provide enough opportunities to meet this demand. This law is like a zero point in integration policy. The zero point can now be moved forward and can also go in the opposite direction. After my performance in this hall, I'm going to translate my speech into Russian to send a letter to the taxi drivers in Narva to see how we did here. I'm communicating with everyone who wrote me my e-mail address. You know, I hope that after a while they will be able to follow these discussions that concern their own lives, even without translation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U16	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Free Party Group, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U17	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! This week we have spoken a lot about Estonian. It is very beautiful, but it is also very right, because where, if not here, in this Chamber of People's Representatives, we should speak and think about the Estonian language. Estonian language is an important Estonian contribution to world culture. So by taking care of the Estonian language, we also take care of a small piece of world culture. It is our responsibility and it is indeed the greatest and most beautiful responsibility of the representatives of the people working in this Chamber. Of course, the Estonians have always had concerns about the Estonian language. We can look back into very gray times, but I can only remind you of one thing. Exactly 100 years ago, this was in March 1916, there was a large meeting in Vanemuine in Tartu, where it was decided that Estonian should be a language of administration, Estonian should be a university language and Estonian should be an educational language. We very often forget one thing: we forget how much has been done in 100 years for this language. However, it is not our duty to keep this language here, but to carry it forward. From the point of view of language survival, the most important is the number of speakers of language, and in this context I am dealing with this amendment, which four representatives of the public would like to make into the law on public transport. The Public Transport Act, adopted by the previous Riigikogu, was certainly well-designed. They tried to put all the requirements together for the cab driver. It is a matter of course whether it was wise to write a language requirement there too, as it is not in the special law for other professions. But I'd leave that alone. If this requirement was written in, then this requirement imposed by the previous Riigikogu should have a logical continuation, and a logical continuation, as if we were changing the unrealistic deadline. This is what we tried to do with the proposal put forward by the four MPs. We did not want to abolish this requirement, but to postpone its implementation. The claims that in the meantime the language law has not been in force are not relevant in this respect. Perhaps our proposal was misspelled, perhaps the wording was not precise enough. But it is clear that the language law would certainly have been in force even if the deadline had been postponed. The Chair of the Economic Commission also stressed that according to the law, it is as if the language skills should also be demonstrated by those who have been educated in Estonian. It's not like that. Read Article 26 of the Language Act, it is clearly stated: everyone who has been educated in Estonian does not need to prove their proficiency in the Estonian language separately. The biggest plus of our amendment was that it supported the understanding that the decisions made by the Riigikogu, including those concerning the language, must not give the opposite signals to society, so that one composition will decide one and the other for the other. It is always possible to rethink things, but the language is certainly the basis for which fickle decisions are particularly unacceptable. Our amendment was clearly in favour of everything: it was in favour of the number of speakers of the Estonian language to grow and the language to last, so that we would act consistently as a representative of the people, so that all the people living here, whatever their nationality, would be able to feel dignified as part of this society, speaking the language of the indigenous people, where they live. It is true that at national level everything has not been done for its language, so that integration can succeed, so that people who do not speak Estonian as their mother tongue can feel dignified here. Achieving this is our most important task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U18	Thank you. I now ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U19	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, It is as if a small and technical legislative amendment, which gives rise to a lot of debate and perhaps also confrontation in society, actually reveals what we heard in the first speech. I mean, in Estonia, it has been a complete pseudonymisation of integration or assimilation policy over 20 or 25 years, or pokazuha. When we talk about the need to give people more time to achieve an elementary level of the Estonian language after 25 years of independence, we actually admit that almost nothing has been done in 25 years. Yes, Narva is a very exceptional case in terms of its language environment, but it is not possible that, with good will, people could not have improved their skills in the Estonian language and required it in the service sector. The question is that it has not been wanted, is not targeted at resources or political capital. In my opinion, there are many statements bluffing or misleading the public. I seriously question whether there are 500 taxi drivers in Narva. I know there are fewer in the whole town of Tartu. How this Narva economy thrives so that all people can take a taxi will not make sense to me. I also cannot understand why these taxi drivers should all become unemployed on a daily basis if they fail to comply with the requirements that have been in place at all times. Another very important misleading statement that has been made to the public here is that the language law remains in force. I'm sorry, the language law doesn't say anything about this particular matter, it's governed by a government regulation. And as we have pointed out, the government can change its regulation every week if it wants. So basically, we're still taking the strict rule out of the law and leaving it to the discretion of the cabinet. All this debate has revealed the capitulant spirit of the current coalition in promoting and defending the Estonian language. People do not leave Narva or Ida-Virumaa simply because they learned the language of the state. People go away, even though they are born with Estonian language skills, including Põlva and Valga. There are wider economic reasons behind this. I think it is quite appropriate to point out that the IRL and Reform Party, which, at least since the Bronze Night, have cultivated the rhetoric of defending national interests, have retreated to the socialist line on the issue of the national language. And the line of social democrats is capitulant and intriguing, or multi-cultural, towards Estonian language and culture. There's no way you can agree with that attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U20	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Central Party to Mikhail Stalnukhini!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, One comment here: there really are 500 taxi drivers in Narva and a little more. The thing is, there are few people in this room who are imagining what the taxicabs of Narva are all about. If I need to move somewhere in Narva, the bus would be pretty hard to do. But I'm calling to order a cab is free of charge, and coming to the car. Because I get in the car, I don't get paid. And so I go to any part of town for two euros. Any route within the city of Narva costs two euros. This means that if three people drive from somewhere in the morning to work and they need to get to Kreenholm, it's better to take a taxi with the three of them. It's cheaper than riding a bus. That's the point. That's why these people work as cab drivers, and that's why they serve like this. And this is a very important factor in the economic life of our city. I would like to say a few more words on the subject that the Group of the Centre Party has introduced a draft law with more or less similar content. We very much hope that, after today's vote, we will have the opportunity to withdraw it and, for the first time, we will probably be happy to do so. That means I'll thank those who started the bill once more from this bleacher. I thank my fellow Members Palo and Borodichi and thank all those who support the adoption of this law in advance. It is only German television who has already agreed to come to Narva next week to make a film about taxi drivers in Narva and how the simplest problems will be solved. From last night's phone call, I realized that if today's vote goes in such a way that about 3,000 people in Narva, taxi drivers and their families, can thank this hall, then just make one movie. Let's hope so! Once again, thank you in advance to all those who support the adoption of this law. It is 100% supported by the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U22	Thank you. There's no more calls. I shall close the negotiations and begin the preparation of the final vote. Good fellows, I'll put bill 159 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 67 members of the Riigikogu, 13 against and no abstentions, the draft law amending the Public Transport Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi and Urve Palo, has been adopted as 159 laws. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U23	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on the organisation of the energy economy, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 162. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law on the organisation of the energy economy initiated by the Government of the Republic. This is a draft which provides guidelines for energy efficiency, including for energy production, consumption, distribution and procurement in state-owned buildings. The Energy Economy Organisation Act transposes the European Union Energy Efficiency Directive into Estonian law. The draft provides for obligations for the public sector and the private sector arising directly from the Directive. There are no non-implementation commitments in the draft. In Estonia, the implementation of the draft measures will help to further increase the state's energy security due to increased energy independence, reduce primary energy, mineral and fuel consumption and limit greenhouse gas emissions. Increasing energy efficiency is a good tool for solving problems in Estonia, where the energy intensity of the economy is at the forefront of the European Union, particularly important. Looking at the share of primary energy production compared to gross domestic product, Estonia was 3.4 times the European Union average based on 2012 data. The transition to a more energy-efficient economy accelerates the spread of innovative and technological solutions and improves the competitiveness of the industrial sectors of Estonia and the European Union as a whole, including by promoting economic growth and creating good jobs in a number of energy efficiency-related sectors. To be more precise, the law on the organisation of the energy economy consists of different thematic blocks, which I will introduce to you. The draft requires the public sector, in particular, from the central government, to develop an example of compliance with energy efficiency. The way to use more energy-efficient products, buildings and services must be shown and the changing energy consumption habits of citizens and businesses should be encouraged. This obliges central government authorities to reconstruct 3% of their buildings annually at least to the level of minimum energy performance requirements, i.e. class D. Public procurement will only have to provide products, services and buildings of the highest energy efficiency class in the future. The amendments concern 47 central government institutions with a total area of about one million square metres. Thus, about 32000 square metres of surface area, i.e. 16 buildings, must be renovated per year. These seem to be large figures, but the budget has amounts available for energy-efficient renovation of buildings and the objective can also be achieved by optimising the working space of central government institutions. The second and most important issue concerns the obligation for the State to achieve a certain amount of energy end-use savings: 1,5% of the total energy sold to the final consumer in the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020. This means that 7.1 terawatt-hours of energy will be saved in Estonia during this period. 95% of this, around 6.7 terawatt-hours of energy savings will be achieved by already planned national energy efficiency measures, such as taxes, measures to support energy savings, etc. The lack of energy savings will be covered, where appropriate, through a system of energy efficiency obligations, which will place an obligation on energy distribution system companies with an annual sales volume of more than 100 gigawatt-hours per year to deal with the energy savings of their final customers. There are 12 such companies in Estonia: the largest electricity distribution system operators Elektrilevi, VKG Elektrivõrgud and Imatra Elektrekter, gas distribution system operators AS Gaasivõrgud and Estonia's largest heat companies. The obligations of the Directive and the draft have been negotiated with economic operators. There are a number of ways in which companies can fulfil their energy efficiency obligation. For example, an energy company can carry out energy saving investments at the consumer's disposal, increase energy efficiency in its own production equipment and networks, take steps in cooperation with energy service providers, and as a last resort, make payments to the National Energy Efficiency Fund. According to the draft, energy efficiency must also be increased in energy production. To this end, energy producers are required to carry out analyses if a production unit with a thermal input exceeding 20 MW is to be built or reconstructed, a thermal power plant, an industrial installation or a district heating network. The analysis shall examine whether it is economically justified to build these installations on the principle of an efficient cogeneration mode. The analysis is necessary for obtaining a building permit and no building permit shall be granted if the results of the analysis are not taken into account in the construction project. The draft Energy Management Act also obliges energy companies to measure the energy use of end-users and to provide free access to end-users' consumption data, both in real time and ex post, in addition to the supply of electricity and gas, in the provision of district heating and hot domestic water services. The draft also provides for the installation of individual heat cost dividers or meters for end-users in the case of proven benefits. This is no doubt not a new issue for Estonia, because we already have individual heat meters installed. We are also at the forefront in the European Union in the installation of remotely readable electricity meters and in making available consumption data. One of the obligations laid down in the draft is already being implemented. At the end of last year, a series of training courses was organised for large companies and opportunities were created to audit their energy consumption. This year, training will be organised for entrepreneurs who were unable to participate at the end of last year. According to the requirement of the Directive, the draft provides for an obligation to conduct energy audits at large companies every four years in order to create the prerequisites for achieving large-scale energy savings in the wider industrial sector. The draft law on the organisation of the energy economy also addresses the new minimum requirements for energy audits and the setting of competence requirements for energy auditors, as well as provisions to improve the verification of the competence of persons working in energy efficiency-related activities. It is undoubtedly important to renew the draft guideline, to promote the energy services market by organising the systematic dissemination of energy efficiency information to all market participants, to assess regulatory and other barriers to energy efficiency and, where necessary, to launch measures to eliminate them. The draft will have an impact on the activities of public authorities. The main burden falls on the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Competition Authority in terms of reporting, developing methodologies, reviewing monitoring plans and maintaining a possible energy savings register. Of course, the coordination of network charges must also take into account savings measures. In fulfilling the obligation of energy audits and supervision of large companies, the Technical Supervisory Authority and the State Real Estate Company will be given additional tasks in developing the energy efficiency of central government buildings. This is briefly the content of the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, please support the decision of the Commission and conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U25	Minister, thank you. You have a lot of questions, too. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U26	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! That's the question. Since the law provides for investment commitments and/or payments to the Energy Efficiency Fund, does this also mean that consumers will have to pay more for energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U27	Thank you. We also addressed this issue in the Commission and explained it further. In short, these investments are not so much decisive as the general trend on the world market.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U28	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This is where the obligation to audit large companies is imposed. You also talked about the training series. This draft has probably been discussed for a really long time, with a comprehensive table of amendments and discussions with economic operators. But were there any differences of opinion about all this? And how do these necessary changes appear on the side of bureaucracy, reporting and so on? Are they in zero mode?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U30	I may say, in addition to the previous answer, that the real idea of this draft is to achieve that everyone who consumes can save themselves. And as a result, big savings will be achieved. That's actually the point. When you look at our biggest entrepreneurs, as much as I have feedback, people who have attended the training confirm that many companies have already obtained the ISO certificates they have requested. Many feel that this is a useful measure to save their costs in order to act more effectively. So all of this is certainly in the interests of businesses. However, if there are any loose ends, we can discuss it in detail in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U31	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U32	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! As I understand it, the main responsibility is to clean up the houses of 16 countries every year. However, the explanatory memorandum also states that as it is innovative and extraordinary enough for Estonia, the recommended provisions of the directive will not be taken over by Estonia. What are the recommended provisions of the directive that Estonia will not even think about transposing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U33	It seems to me that the question was not quite precise. Yes, as I mentioned in the presentation of the draft, part of the draft is indeed about making the buildings of the national central government more energy efficient. And there are also 16 buildings per year that are included in the budget. However, in general, 47 central government institutions, i.e. one million square metres of space, are still affected more broadly. There are various nuances which were also asked by the Commission, for example, whether it extends to local authorities. The answer is no, it does not currently extend to local governments. We will, however, start with central government institutions. So we have taken over the core of this European rule and have not begun to extend it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U34	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question is the same as I asked in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I didn't get an answer there, I hope it's there now. 12 large companies across Estonia, as you said, will have to save 1% of the average annual amount of energy sold to the final consumer. How much could it cost? I mean, if these 12 companies were to save 1% of the electricity sold to the final consumer, if they were to pay all this savings into the fund that would be created, how much would we talk about?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U36	I think you can do the math, I'm not speculating here. Once again, as was said in the Commission, there is actually a need to implement a large number of measures that will come before we reach this fund. When we addressed this in the Commission and, if necessary, in the Commission or working group, it was stressed that the main point was to achieve energy savings. Energy savings are important for producers, businesses and private individuals, because this is what ensures the lowest cost of electricity. This fund is the last measure in line.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U37	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The government programme is known to have reduced administration composition and associated redundancies. How is this bill consistent with this? After all, this entails additional costs and probably new jobs at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Competition Authority and the Technical Surveillance Authority. What is the effect of the law on these institutions and officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U39	According to my knowledge, the tasks that have come to us from the Minister for Public Administration, Arto Asa, who has reviewed the administration of all ministries, are still valid. Which means that, in our administration as well as in other areas of administration, there is rather a trend towards a reduction in composition. The necessary competences are largely present. For example, these same trainings and audits, as we talked about in the Commission, are actually carried out by our officials, although this is in some ways not their main activity. Well, I guess we're gonna have to split up the whole thing better between the houses.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U40	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There's nothing new about saving energy and saving mineral resources. That makes sense, and I remember that once in a long time of counseling, small children were already told in the first grade of school that when they leave the room, electricity must be extinguished, because it saves the mineral resources and supports the socialist economy. So, of course, it makes sense. According to the directive, the aim is to save the primary energy of the European Union, namely the consumption of mineral resources and fuels. And my question is this: is Estonian oil shale a mineral resource of the European Union? Have we missed anything, our water and air, and something else belongs to the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U42	Your questions are generally rather humorous. But we are, yes, a member of the European Union, and we act on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U43	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U44	Thank you, manager. Honourable Minister! Please tell me to what extent the draft legislation in question is directed specifically at producers of energy-efficient production, more energy-efficient technologies. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U45	What you asked about is the point of the bill. One side is the side of consumers that we have addressed here and on which the members of the Free Party Group have asked. However, the other side is that energy audits at manufacturers and, in addition to measures concerning network operators and large heat producers, are all aimed at ensuring that they organise their production in the most efficient way possible. As we all understand, there is much greater potential savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U46	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U47	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It is quite a lot of money for companies that are building a new building. There is a difference between building a new building according to current building standards or building a so-called zero energy house. Can you tell me how much the zero energy house will cost more than the building built according to current building standards and how long is the return time? What motivates an undertaking to take this step?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U48	This is exactly the kind of question that is worth asking for in view of the future. Today we are still talking about the direction of the central government. We have taken decisions concerning the energy efficiency classes of buildings built both in the central government and in the private sector. The real question is how to calculate the price of the building. For each specific building, these calculations should be carried out. But it is generally the case that in the future, at least on the national side, the public sector side should assess the entire life map of the surface or building and the costs associated with it. The aim should be that as long as the building remains, as long as it is used, the owner can save thanks to energy savings and other measures. That should be the purpose why we are talking about savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U49	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U50	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I asked how much this 1% savings will be, and that is what the question of my colleague, Artur Talvik, was. It's going to cost something, and I still need to know that absolute value. After all, this may also mean that electricity prices can generally rise. I am very sorry that you have not yet calculated this number, even though the officials promised to send it to us after the committee meeting. But here's the question. I myself support the idea of obliging large companies to save energy. In other parts of the world, many countries, such as Great Britain, have a duty to save energy in households in vulnerable families. Have you thought that in Estonia, companies could be directed towards austerity in order to help families that are not well-insured?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U51	Your first question I answered last time. If you want to get further calculations, we'll do them to you, even if they're hypothetical and speculative. As I said, the question was not quite correct. We will only reach the energy saving fund once the remaining measures have been exhausted. But once again, we can talk about this separately. The second question: yes, this is the subject we addressed in the Commission. The question arose as to whether the undertaking should also implement social measures. At least the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is of the opinion that the social system in Estonia has been kept separate from the economy. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the laws in the field of energy do not deal with the topics covered by the General Part of the Social Code Act and the Social Welfare Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U52	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U53	Thank you. Dear Minister, You spoke about making public buildings energy-efficient, which is certainly a very welcome objective, and you said that this is what the state budget has earmarked for 16 buildings per year and so until the end of 2020, if I understood correctly. Please specify how much money there is in the state budget, how it will run until 2020 and when energy efficiency will return this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U54	I am pleased that you too believe that this is the right goal. I, too, think that this is the right goal of Since you asked, I'll try to name some numbers. A total of 3% of the central government's buildings must be converted to meet the minimum or "D" requirements, as I said. There are 47 central government institutions in Estonia, which manage about one million square metres, or about 500 buildings. There are some exceptions. But you have to improve about 3% a year, or 32000 square meters, and 16 buildings, as I said. According to the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance and the RKAS, it costs just under 20 million euros of state budget money. Moreover, it is possible to achieve this objective, as I mentioned earlier, by optimising the working space of central government institutions and by introducing new buildings built in accordance with savings requirements. An example is the building of the U.S. Department or whatever it is called. It has also been called the Ministry of Savings or Super Ministry. The central government retains the obligation to procure products belonging to the higher energy efficiency class and to buy or rent only buildings belonging to class D or higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U55	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U56	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the implementation of this directive could have a positive impact on regional development, as the rural population might be offered the most competitive heat price possible. But it says here it's'may work', not that it's positive. My question: under what conditions and with what probability does this have a positive impact on the population and regional development of rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U57	Quite simply, if some producers are able to produce more efficiently and save on costs, it will certainly have an impact on customers as well. That is why we have discussed these mechanisms.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U58	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U59	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! The aim is to reduce primary energy consumption. Does this mean that if one company or public authority consumes renewable energy, it does not have such an investment obligation on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U60	We have a separate theme for renewable energy either way. Renewable energy we subsidize one way or another, it's not a big secret and everyone knows it. But we are talking about energy efficiency classes for buildings now, and it concerns the buildings and surfaces that we use. They shall meet the requirements and shall be subject to a review of the entire fund managed or used by the central government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U61	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You have confirmed that there will be no additional administrative costs. On page 111 of the explanatory memorandum, however, I read something that does not quite agree with it. There is expected to be an increase in seats and staff costs in both the Technical Surveillance Authority and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. How do you comment on that? Normally, there is a requirement to analyse the costs that the new law would entail in the case of draft laws. Indeed, I do not see here the specific costs that the creation of additional posts entails.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U63	If you recall well, in answer to your previous question, I said that the objectives of bringing the administrative apparatus together, which the Minister of Public Administration has also set for our ministry, are still valid. For example, this year our cut-off task was to bring together 50 employees in the Ministry's administration. And such tasks will continue in the future. So if any additional work has to be done somewhere, you have to make sure that everything is arranged as efficiently as possible. But once again, the objective of reducing the number of employees in line with the decline in the working age population applies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U64	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, the law has quite a lot of writing about government buildings, energy sellers, and other large companies. However, relatively little has been dealt with in the existing housing fund. Is it clear that the government is taking some steps in this direction? The achievement of this objective has not been well-written. Is this deliberate, or is this not the context of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U66	I find it a little hard to understand exactly what you expected of the bill in this regard. But what I'm just saying is that the aim of the bill is to achieve energy savings and every consumer, each of us, could contribute to it. That's actually the goal. So in this sense, the draft also concerns consumers, and I hope in a way that is beneficial to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U67	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U68	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm going back to the price again. However, what is the potential for an increase in the cost of energy to the consumer if we disregard the changes in world market prices that you mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U69	I hope that, in the long run, it will be savings for the consumer, that is why we are implementing these measures. People can save on their own consumption. If you walk a line backwards and have a conversation with your colleague Palling, he can show you how he monitors the energy consumption of his apartment by using his smartphone app. He sees his cleverness at what hour he consumes and what the stock market price is. The goal is to get everyone to look at their own consumption in this way. Balling goes home at lunchtime, does the laundry and makes the refrigerator work again. The goal is to achieve such savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U70	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U71	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The draft Energy Management Act requires a reduction in the use of mineral resources and primary energy. My question to you is this: does this mean that, after this bill has been approved here, there will be other laws that specifically concern reducing the use of mineral resources in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U72	Let us say that there is no doubt that there will be legislation on mineral resources. In the near future, the Ministry of the Environment will have to discuss the government's plan to lower resource charges in order to provide some room for breathing in this sector. But overall, our entire mineral policy has been in line with the overall European Union policy to use every tonne more effectively. The same is the direction of companies. However, this concerns in particular a reduction in consumption with a desire to generate savings. It doesn't have to do with what we do with mineral resources. However, if we are able to make better use of the earth's resources, we will undoubtedly do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U73	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U74	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The aim is, of course, noble, but I do not know of any company that is not already trying to save as much energy as possible. The question is how much more the company needs to invest and how long it will be to return. Can it not be that we somehow put our companies into unhealthy market competition compared to other countries of the European Union? Even in regions with a warm climate, companies' energy needs are much lower. Are we not putting any additional burdens on our businesses again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U75	Thank you. By the way, for regions with a warm climate, just such a small remark that there are also countries where remote cooling is essential. I'm sure you know that. But I will say once again that we are actually taking over the public and private sectors from the obligations directly arising from the directive. The main direction is to commit the public sector and there are no non-implementation commitments in the draft directive. That's one. Secondly, as our experience shows and, as we heard in the Commission, we dealt with the draft in detail in the Commission, many companies already have the necessary certificates to prove that some efficiency has been achieved. These are precisely companies that are active in the production of heat energy and are constantly reviewing their processes, looking for savings opportunities. So here we are thinking of cooperation with businesses, and this has also been negotiated with businesses. As I said, we are organising training so that entrepreneurs can analyse where they can benefit from it. The aim is both the profit of the company and the profit of the consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U76	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Mr Kalle Palling, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, Minister, for these long explanations. The debate on the draft law on the organisation of the energy economy 162 before sending it to the first reading was held in the Committee on Economic Affairs on Monday, 7 March. Kristen Michal, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Kätlin Atonen, Deputy Secretary General of Energy and Construction, Ando Leppiman, Head of Strategic Planning of the Department of Energy, Madis Laaniste, and Rein Vaks, expert in the same department, and Urmas Raudsaar, chief specialist. The Minister presented an overview of the objectives of the draft, namely to transpose the Energy Efficiency Directive into Estonian law and also to reduce dependence on energy imports. Obligations are imposed on both the private and public sectors. As a public obligation, the central government must make its buildings compatible with the energy class required by the Directive. Energy companies should implement both more efficient energy production and more efficient consumer transmission. The draft relates to the national energy economic development plan for the period up to 2030. During the Commission's consultation, it was proposed to consider changing the deadlines for energy audits so that the burden on auditors does not fall on a single period every four years. The importance of state communication and cooperation between the Competition Authority and the Technical Surveillance Authority were also highlighted. It was expressed that payments received by the Energy Efficiency Fund should be directly linked to the achievement of energy savings in the same area and should not address the needs of another energy product or other sector. The Commission asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to send as additional information a list of energy producers who would be obliged to make payments on the basis of a draft energy saving obligation or failing to comply with it to contribute to the Energy Efficiency Fund. These companies read beautifully in the Minister's speech here. If I may, I will also correct some false facts that were deliberately or unconsciously presented in the course of these questions. The annual commitment to energy savings up to 2020 is 1.5%, not 1%, as Urve Palo noted. The energy class we want is C, not zero energy, as was the case with Tarmo Tamme. Nor am I sure that there will be social measures in Britain, as was previously said here. Certainly, as the Minister said and discussed in the Commission, the law on the organisation of the energy economy cannot be the right place to solve social problems. As regards the additional workforce that has been asked about here, we are talking about the need for five additional posts in the various institutions. The explanatory memorandum states nicely that they can be hired in these institutions or obtained from outside. So this number of people has nothing to do with increasing or reducing bureaucracy. As the Minister well pointed out, the cheapest energy is saved energy. If we do have to hire some workers for a short period of time to bring people up to speed on the potential for saving energy, then that is certainly justified. Really, we will consume less in the future and our energy balance will improve. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and up to two people to the Competition Board, whose supervisory duties are increasing, will be added to the maximum of two persons. Now for procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that this draft be put on the plenary agenda today (this was consensual), to propose that the first reading be closed (as well as consensual) and, most importantly, to propose the deadline for amendments to be set at 1 April 2016 (as well as consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U78	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U79	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, I was just looking at the provisions implementing the law. As regards paragraph 5, which states that 3% of the floor space owned by the central government must be reconstructed, it is stated that this obligation will be taken into account from 1 January 2014. However, the energy efficiency coordinator will only prepare a national energy efficiency action plan with a strategy for the reconstruction of buildings by 30 April 2017. I have this question: are we now on schedule with this 3%, or does the central government have to take a leap forward later? Any word on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U80	That is why we have foreseen that these investments can also be included retroactively in this savings. The Minister also mentioned that with regard to the construction of the so-called Ministry of Savings where the Ministry of Finance used to be, we have already been ahead of schedule for about three years. So the construction of one building fulfils our three-year commitment to energy saving. And that means that building the Ministry of Savings in this form was the right idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U81	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Since the Minister mentioned you as a model for energy saving, I ask you this way. Some investments are needed to introduce smart houses and smart management. How fast does your smart house, according to your calculations, pay off your smart investments? In 20 years, 25 years, or a little faster?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U83	I do not have this smart house, although the Minister's speech may have made the opposite impression. However, we do have smart meters installed in almost all homes in Elektrilevi, which work with applications created by energy companies that can be used on smartphones. It can now control its energy consumption with an hour's accuracy and 15 minutes' accuracy in the future. During the morning hours, energy costs much less during lunch and at night, and the equipment in our homes can be set up to consume energy at just the right time. These same applications have been developed and other investments have been made by energy companies. This particular solution will not lead to any investment, while in new buildings it is necessary to select household appliances capable of responding to the best price available at the moment. But I wouldn't know how to deal with my own home when we're talking about a private house, taking into account this payback period, whether it's 10 or 12 years. I think that the lifespan or lifecycle of a reasonably constructed building is at least 30 years and, in any case, the cost of energy will also change so much that it is not possible to predict exactly what will pay off the investment in that year. At the same time, I have installed a solar panel in my birth home, and at current electricity prices, the solar panel will pay off in 10 years. And after that, you'll be free of electricity. So if the consumption of electricity in the household is higher than the average, such savings investments will pay off. Energy companies will also be able to optimise their networks. If you have local production, you don't have to have large distribution networks. This is what this law actually lays the foundation for. There was a question earlier about the energy saving fund. The Minister rightly said that the energy saving fund is the last measure in line. We need to ensure conditions for energy-related companies, in particular, to make all the necessary investments that help people save energy. Then less energy needs to be distributed through distribution networks for both central heating and electricity consumption. And only when these options are exhausted will it be possible to contribute to the energy saving fund. Two thirds of the time in the working group of the Committee on Economic Affairs and in the meeting of the Commission, it took a debate so that we would not go the easy way by contributing to the energy saving fund and by renovating the apartment houses of socially disadvantaged residents, as Urve Palo wishes. These two objectives do not complement each other in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U84	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U85	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! My colleagues and I found one title of interest in § 6 of the bill and we would like to know more about it. It seems a very promising agency: an energy efficiency coordinator whose task is to encourage public authorities to purchase only products, services and buildings with high energy efficiency. Do these characters already exist, or do they come under this law, and what responsibilities, rights, competences accompany this profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U86	A detailed explanation of the energy efficiency coordinator should be on page 111, somewhere in the lower third of my memory. This energy efficiency coordinator is one of the officials that needs to be created. Raivo Põldaru asked which posts we need to create and how bureaucracy is now growing. The same energy efficiency coordinator is the person who has to start monitoring and report to the European Commission on how we are implementing energy saving measures. Of course, there must be a separate person. If we take on new responsibilities with the directive, then there must be a person who monitors these responsibilities for the European Commission. According to my knowledge, the energy-saving coordinator is this person. If there is a more precise description, I will send it to you in writing. But I think there's a detailed explanation in the bottom third of page 111.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U87	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 162 should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a on 1 April at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U88	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the President's Law, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U89	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I remember we presented this bill in January when President Ilves began to marry. The only point of our amendment is to make the law fairer. We are now in a situation where the service of the President's spouse is also reserved for a person who was married to the President only on the last day of his term of office. It does not matter whether the spouse has been married to the President for one day or the entire term of office, while the divorced spouse receives nothing, even though he was married to the President for a long time, perhaps during his term of office. We are currently dealing with a specific case that the ex-husband was married to the president for much longer. Our draft proposes that the current text of § 81 be supplemented in this way: 'The spouse of the President shall have the right to the benefits referred to in subsection 2 of this section in accordance with the time of the President's term of office. The amount of the fee shall be determined by dividing the days in office of the President during the President's term of office by the days in which the President is to be married. The total terms of office of the President shall be 100 per cent of the amount on which the accounts are based. ' And these are the rewards, I repeat, 20% of the president's salary, the secretary and the driver. In our view, it will offend the public's sense of justice, as well as the interests of the taxpayer, if the current version remains in force. That is why we came before Parliament with such a simple but important change, in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U90	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Your bill focuses primarily on redistribution of your spouse's benefits. My question is why you did not consider a substantial reduction in these costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U92	Actually, we did. We carefully considered and discussed whether or not to go along with the whole package of benefits, and we found that if we were to take up a so-called larger batch, there would be no hope of going through this legislative amendment. I am not sure that there is any hope of going through this now, but our position was that we would then move forward step by step. However, in answer to your question, I admit that we also think that the President has too generously been given benefits, and so have his wife.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U93	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! The question is this: can this bill also have a wider public interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U95	I am absolutely certain that this bill has a wider public interest. Let's look at how popular a television broadcast was about the President's reception, see how much news the President's private life has been read, and take into account that we have developed certain social or social issues that excite people. The work of a presidential couple, whether in good or bad, will always give rise to some kind of resonance in society. I think it is appropriate for Parliament to react to the opinion of the people, and that is the main reason for bringing our draft here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U96	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. And how am I supposed to say, dear son? In most countries there is no such institution as the President's spouse. I mean, yes, there has come a concept like the first lady from America, but according to me, please let someone correct me if I'm wrong, even in the case of an American presidential state, the husband of the President has not been allowed to do anything after he has resigned. Is there also a calculation of how much, for example, within ten years of the President's resignation, his spouse's maintenance would cost the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U98	Indeed, in Estonia, the wife of the President is not an official institution. There is simply no such institution. The husband is registered in the law with the good he is given in the form he is now in. In a way, it has come over such a, I'd say, monarchic system. Neither does the wife of the President of the United States have any formal status. And, as far as I know, neither the President of the United States of America nor his wife will have as much benefits as they are in Estonia after the end of the term of office of the Head of State. The President's salary is, of course, higher there, but America is also a richer country, and the head of state's work is of a different nature: the President's job is to lead the executive power. However, we only have a representation function. That is why the idea of our draft is also to reduce this dispersal and institutionalisation. I think we all want to have a president who has a healthy family life, so that the person with the highest authority in Estonia can set an example for people with their family life. We understand that, with regard to the representation function, it is natural not only to pay but also to certain representation costs that we have agreed on. But the position of our group is that the representation costs for the President's spouse are too high either way or way. It is especially grotesque, however, when the present spouse is married to the president for a few months, but he can enjoy these benefits for the rest of his life. As for the question of how much these costs are, of course, everything depends on how old people live. Given that the current President's husband is relatively young and the average life expectancy in Europe is quite good, according to various calculations are not just talking about salary, we are also talking about a secretary and a trade car and other benefits that can be up to a million euros. It is, of course, somewhat speculative and we all realise that it has been distributed over several or tens of years. This is not the amount that will knock down the Estonian taxpayer's feet, but let us take this aside into account the context. Most Estonian taxpayers, when they retire, will not receive any of these amounts at all, and from the point of view of the state, any amount that they have spent incorrectly is not justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I think you've made such a good point that the Republics have few such problems, many kingdoms. We have a strong feeling of Kingdom origin. As an old kingdomman, I say that we did not have this conversation with Vilja 25 years ago. Perhaps we have moved so well towards the kingdom that we should simply establish a kingdom, and there is much less need for change. Think, the Head of State is the father of the people. Do we really have to choose a new father every four years and spend so much public money? Maybe it could be easier?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U100	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U101	We still choose the Head of State every five years. But there's this poem about kids sitting on three trolls, and every 1,000 or a hundred years, one of them said'meow' to the others or something like that. Maybe you and Vilja should talk more often if you had the last talk about it 25 years ago. But I also have a slightly monarchic heart beating in me, of course, when it comes to constitutional monarchy. Estonia is a republic according to the Constitution, and it is nice that it is a republic, and I like it in itself. The problem is this hybridity: if we are a republic and if the President is not the father of the people at all, but a representative figure and elected well, he is not elected, then he is, in fact, a servant of the people. Kings are given to us by God and rule over all men, so people in the kingdom are called, not citizens, but subjects. We don't have any subjects, thank God. This means that the President and his wife are ultimately servants of the people. And that also means that all the benefits they receive will be obtained with the consent and approval of the people. This, in turn, means that if the benefits become too great or too free, we will become alienated, the power will be delegated. This certainly is not a good trend in the Republican, Monarchical or any other social order.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U102	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U103	Good manager! Good waitress! According to your bill, according to the number of days the President's wife has been the wife of the President, she will receive this benefit for the rest of her life: 20% of the President's salary, the secretary and the driver. What's this thing supposed to look like? Evelin Ilves played this role for almost ten years, and Ieva Ilves will be here for a few months. So how would Evelin Ilves pay for hiring a secretary and a driver with what percentage, or how is that supposed to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U104	And that's exactly what it is, with a percentage, yes. This means, then, that, in the case of a ten-year so-called term of office, a nine-tenth of this benefit would be available to Evelin Ilves and one-tenth of Ieva Ilves. Whether you can afford to hire a driver and a secretary or not, I can't tell you that depends on how economically managed. Maybe they hire helpers for a quarter of a place or a tenth of a place, it's all about management skills. That's right, nine-tenths and one-tenths when it comes to the spouses of the current president.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U105	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you know if the Estonian Taxpayers' Association has expressed their views on such expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U107	In particular, I cannot answer, but as far as I know, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association has generally criticised the overly generous benefits of our country. But I owe you a direct answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U108	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U109	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I was hoping you'd come out with a full package of law. In fact, the benefits that come with this institution, especially the benefits of the spouse, are not proportionate at all. Let us look at our neighbours, Latvia and Finland, and we also imagine that we will have a change of president every five years! Everyone should be guaranteed the President's residence, cars, secretaries, etc. at a later date. Is that justified? Maybe we should do the whole package.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U110	After all, we have a second reading ahead of us, and before the second reading, we can propose amendments to the draft. I basically agree that we have too generous benefits. As for the residence, that's a very painful subject, let's say so. It would be normal if the President had an official residence in which he lived during his term of office, as in many other countries. And when his term of office is over, he'll empty the drawers and go home. This model, which we have had here, is paid by the taxpayer for the maintenance, repair and staff of the President's private home, and when the term of office is over, all of it will remain there and the taxpayer will start setting up someone's next home, certainly not a normal model. There are hundreds of very beautiful estates in Estonia that would be suitable for the Presidential residence. These are cultural monuments in danger of being destroyed, which could easily make a proper residence. But since it would remain with the state, it has not been done so far, but it has been chosen to carry this money into its own house. I don't think it's even a jock scheme, because if you assess it from the point of view of normal auditing rules, it's still a clear snatch. If we want to reduce all these benefits, our group will certainly be in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U111	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U112	Thank you. Honourable waitress! There's a big contradiction between the explanatory statement on your bill and what you're saying. It is stated in the explanatory memorandum that the purpose of the law is to reduce costs, which is stated as a single objective. It has also been said that the implementation of the law reduces the costs of the State. However, from your answers, I can conclude that you will instead increase the number of persons who will receive the benefit. And if you really take into account people's life expectancy and probability theory, if you increase the number of beneficiaries of the benefit, then the costs to the state in general, according to the whole logic, will increase somewhat, in no way decrease. You're talking about this nine-tenth and one-tenth theory. Where do you see this decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U113	The main purpose of the law is justice, as stated in the second sentence of the explanatory memorandum. And I don't see any cost increases. If we're talking about having a fixed amount, it's going to be divided, there's two or five of these spouses. The amount is still the same, no matter how long anyone lives. Even on the contrary, if one of these several spouses lives longer, he or she will not get a hundred percent of it, even if the other or the others are no longer listed as living. In that sense, I see no increase in costs anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U114	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Martin, that's the question for you. The life of a representative's wife is never easy, it is still quite difficult to bear us. But I get the impression from your emotional and very smart performance that Mrs. Ilves' lobby group is behind this performance. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U116	No, it's not. If you look back at a little bit in time, what I am personally or what my partymates have thought of Evelin Ilves, then it must be said that we have been extremely critical of him because of various things. Both because I think he has not always behaved with dignity in his position and because he and his wife have loved taxpayers' money very much during this marriage. In this sense, I am certainly not a representative of the Evelin Ilves lobby group or a secret weapon. However, we do find that it is not fair when Evelin Ilves suffered her husband for nine years, but gets nothing for it, then came the middle-life crisis and great love, and for this the Estonian taxpayer rewards our neighbour from Livonia very generously. We just don't think it's fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U117	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U118	Thank you. Good waitress! In conclusion to the previous question, however, I would argue that your explanatory statement is wrong in the sense that no savings are made. But my question is that you are talking about very specific people here, even by name. Did you consider the aspect of legal expectations? If a person has a legal expectation under the law in force, should this be taken into account? Did you think about that? I would like to make an analogy: in the same way, members of the Riigikogu of certain previous formations who are still alive or are about to retire could be abolished. Some of them are here in the sleigh. Could calmly cancel their special pensions, the logic would be the same and the savings would be much higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U119	I would point out that the Republic of Estonia has lost special pensions very cruelly, such as those of the border guards. So it has indeed been done. Yes, we discussed the issue of legal expectations. That is precisely why we considered that the draft must be submitted before the President's term of office is over. In fact, we turned it in before these citizens married each other. But, of course, the principle of legal expectation cannot be unbreakable and all other arguments can be invalidated. If we who decide on taxpayers' money find ourselves too generous, we can rewind this regulation. And according to legal expectations, no one can expect the taxpayer to pay him anything for the rest of his life. It's a little too much to expect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U120	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U121	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I am not even going to the waitress at the moment, as I would like to point out that when we talk about specific individuals, there is, according to the bill, total savings: the money between the divorce and the new marriage will remain in the taxpayers' pockets.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U122	You see, there are savings. Small, but still. Whoever doesn't pick up the knuckle doesn't get the ruble, they used to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U123	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U124	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You answered Mr Kiisler's question that the border guards lost special pensions. When was this done, and by what law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U125	You can ask this question from our groupmate Uno Kaskpeit, but this was basically when the border guards and police were united and the border guards who, in the meantime, went on to sign up as military personnel did not sign up as military personnel. It actually pulled a hat on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U126	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think we agreed that the president's husband would be in a state of office or something. And if a person voluntarily leaves his or her post before the term of the contract, he or she loses his or her bonuses. It's a lot like that. In the present case, such an employment relationship was terminated by agreement between the parties, because of the incompatibility and of their own accord. A quitter, like a job, knew what he was losing. So it wasn't news to him. Question to you: have you asked for the opinion of the target group? And the question is this: could we introduce a new regulation from the next president instead of almost after the next president now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U128	I don't think it's a real job relationship. It was said once that it wasn't official or professional. Nor do I think that this so-called opt-out was quite voluntary. But rather, these benefits are still regarded as pensions. When a person leaves one job, they still count on his or her career, he or she was there until the end of the term or less. And we are essentially talking about "marriage status" during the President's term of office. I don't quite agree with the parallel you brought.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U129	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U130	Thank you. For the sake of the tenogram, I will specify that two organisations have joined: border guards and police. The retirement age increased, but no one lost their pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U131	Yeah, well, okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U132	We're in the middle of a round of questions right now. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U133	Thank you. Good colleague! I understand that you of the six groups took this issue very seriously and discussed it in your group. Wasn't the debate such a keen question as whether we need a presidential institution in Estonia at all or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U134	In our group, the question really arose as to whether Estonia needed a president. In general, the position of our party is that if we had a proper President, there would be no question. But we do not see a direct reason to change the constitution and to lose the institution of the President, but we do see a great need to find a proper President for Estonia this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U135	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U136	Thank you. I agree that perhaps Estonia really does not need a president. However, I would like to be more specific on the basis of the previous questions. You are currently talking about a spouse, as well as about an employment relationship, but in fact, we choose the President knowing that the spouse will also 'come along'. So we pick like two people at a time. Do you agree that the spouse really should have some kind of benefit in this regard? We are consciously going to this lady's white house or to the Kadriorg.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U137	In our case, in the pink house, yes. Unfortunately, life is not perfect. Almost ten years ago, when the current president was elected in Estonia, he had a wife who is now no longer his wife. And, of course, a president was elected, whose husband was known and well known, and for whom everyone expected him to play the role of premiere. We are not currently questioning whether the President's husband must have certain benefits and whether these benefits should continue after the end of his term of office. We simply find that the nine years that a husband played in Kadriorg cannot be less important than the few months that a new husband performs that role.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U138	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U139	Mr. Waitress! Did you and the other people in your group have the opportunity or opportunity to examine the birth story of this law when preparing this draft? I suppose it used to be a government bill. Was this provision, which is currently recommended by your draft, later included in the Riigikogu or was it originally inside? And did the discussions then raise the question of what would happen if the marriage was divorced and remarried?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U140	Yeah, that's what we were talking about. That's a relatively long-standing law, that's the current Presidential Prosperity Act. This was the initiative of President Meritime. From what we understand, the Meri came from itself, although it was moved through other institutions. In the meantime, there's not a lot of stuff written on it, I mean those benefits. If I remember correctly, it was either 1996 or 1997, i.e. it was not the first term of Meri's term of office or the beginning of his term of office, but it was then written in this form. In my opinion, this law has not been adjusted very much later. So this is a law made in accordance with the wishes of the first president of our period of independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U141	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U142	Thank you, Vice President. Dear waitress, Since it has been said here, both on the questions and in your answers, that whoever comes along is a lady, then I ask you, could it be perfectly okay for you if the one who comes along is a mister and the President is a madam?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U143	I was afraid you'd ask if both of them could be gentlemen. Of course, it is perfectly normal for us to have higher jobs in Estonia by women. Show me some decent candidates, and I'll support them anytime you want. That's definitely not a problem. I do stress, however, that it is important for us, as I mentioned earlier, to have a healthy and exemplary family life. For us, this certainly means that it is not a divorced family, and we also assume that it is a special-sex family.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U144	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U145	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Since Evelin Ilves was the President's wife for nine years and did this work, sometimes it should not be called a job, should she also be offered retraining opportunities when she ended this so-called employment relationship?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U146	Let's just say he didn't work, he was in that role. How he performed this role is to make a subjective assessment of everyone. For the sake of my mental health, I generally monitor the Estonian media as little as possible and the weight of social life is the least. So I don't know exactly what he's doing right now, but it's got the impression that this is a energetic person who's always doing something new, from cooking bread to roller skating. I'm sure he'll get busy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U147	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U148	Thank you very much. This is, of course, an interesting debate, but I think you've put a little too much emphasis on quantity and less on quality. Because in the end, the people will either choose the president themselves or through their representatives. The President shall elect a husband. At least theoretically, there is a chance that one day the President of Estonia will also become an exceptionally "glorious man of women" who has the right number of spouses during his years of office. Why didn't you follow the logic that, since the President chooses his wife, we, as his wife, acknowledge who he has last? Just as at the time of electronic selection we can choose the right number of times, but ultimately the last option will remain valid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U149	The logic of this draft is the opposite. There will be as many spouses as there is, each one receiving compensation for the days he carries this role of representation, as well or as ill as he bears. If the last day is what counts, then maybe we're mismotivating the entire President's private life a little bit. Our logic is different.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U150	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Luckily or unfortunately, we don't know who's going to be the next president and what his habits are. But my question is this: will the benefits of the President's spouse be regulated by your bill extend in the future to the partners of another president?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U152	It is not regulated in any way in this law. It should be regulated in another law how we register or do not register partners in Estonia. Theoretically, the same hall here can also legitimize polygamy. It simply states in this bill that the days we've been married are related to the days of the President's term of office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U153	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have this question: how many times have you considered the remote control to be relevant or irrelevant to a state of one law or another? Sometimes you claim that some law is not very important from the point of view of the state, but some other law needs to be dealt with. My question is how important for the country in the ten-ball system you would appreciate your draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U155	We haven't used a ball scale like this. I think that the Riigikogu and all members of the Riigikogu must be able to walk and chew gum at once, i.e. to deal with matters that are both very important, on average, and less important. After all, everything depends very much on what our standard is. When it comes to financial standards, one specific law is more important than the other. If it is a moral standard, then another law is more important than the first. And there may also be some kind of bureaucratic law, which does not have much financial or moral influence, but it is still important. So it all depends on what standard we are taking of this bill. At the moment, there is certainly still a public interest or a public mindset. People are expecting or waiting for something. We are not talking about legitimate expectations in legal terms, but about people thinking that one thing or another, even if it is a small thing, should be done. I'm guessing this bill belongs to this category.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U156	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U157	Here's my question. As we know, the press is being divided into something more constructive and then more entertaining, which is also said to be yellow. Do the initiators not think that this colour will be passed on to the Riigikogu as a result of this discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U158	I don't think so, I certainly don't! And in addition to the yellow media, of course, we have pink media, don't we? I think that the reputation of the Riigikogu is greatly damaged by some other things that are being or are not being dealt with here. This debate certainly does not damage the reputation of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U159	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U160	Good manager! Good waitress! There was a question of how important this bill is. Do you share my view that this draft is more important than the constant adoption of the Euro Directives in this Chamber? In fact, this law was passed for the sake of one person whose name I am not going to say here. Is adopting and discussing the law for one person wise or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U161	I agree that we have had on the agenda drafts which are much less important than today, and we have had on the agenda drafts for which there has actually been no choice. We now have a choice; it is up to us to decide on this bill how we organise life in Estonia. As far as one person or one or two people are concerned, unfortunately, the world is so arranged that people are not equal. Some people's actions and omissions affect and affect more people than others. And for those whose actions concern many, it may be necessary to deal with them individually.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U162	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U163	Thank you, good manager. Here's the question. There is a point in good legislative practice that says that the opinion of those affected by the particular draft will also be sought. I am thinking, for example, of civil society organisations. In this case, there are very few subjects. Have you also asked for the opinion of the President or his office or the opinion of others affected by this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U164	Thank you. I didn't ask, I didn't think it was necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U165	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask Andre Sepa, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U166	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Act on the Official Benefits of the President of the Republic, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, at its meeting on 7 March and 8 March. Henn Põlluaas, representative of the initiators, and Ebe Sarapuu, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice also attended the meeting of the Commission. The debate in the Commission can be divided into three main parts. In the first, we got an overview of why the text of the law is like this and how the benefits set out in the President's Professional Benefits Act developed. The excerpts that reflect the process of formation also show that, in this law, the President's assumption was that he would continue to perform the functions of representation after leaving office and would shape the state's reputation both at home and abroad. Such action entails costs, and the benefits of the President's spouse and of the President who resigned were assigned to solve this problem. From October 1996, these benefits would take effect. In March 2006, however, we have all remembered as a regrettable month when we lost our first President of the period of independence. It must have had an impact on the further course of this law. In the second group, we discussed the content of the bill that the EKRE had proposed to us. The Commission expressed its opinion on how the proposed proportion could be just a day-by-day basis or a presidency-by-day basis, five years plus five years or only five years. And as a third block, we discussed how up-to-date the benefits are at all, including those proposed by the bill. How important is it, is it a mate or not? If the spouse changes, what happens, and if it is necessary to pay this 20% "representation fee"? It should be noted that the law provides for a pension of 75% of his salary for the outgoing president, which in itself should cover all expenses incurred by him and his spouse in carrying out later representation functions. We also listened to the position of the Government of the Republic. The government does not support this initiative and considers that, if the draft 168 that we have on the table is to be used, the divorced spouse of the President should also take up representation duties in proportion to the duration of his/her presence alongside the President. It doesn't make any sense. Indeed, how would it develop in reality? As a result of such discussions, we also reached decisions. It was initially decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 March, and that decision was amended and replaced by 17 March on the second day of the procedure. It was also proposed to reject the draft law (by 5 members of the Commission, 4 against, no abstentions) and to appoint Mr Andre Sepp (consensus) as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U167	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U168	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! As far as I am aware, the current law provides that even if, after the end of the President's term of office, a presidential couple divorces, the spouse can continue to avail himself of the benefit of the state. As far as I know, that's the way it is. If that is the case, then I ask you, did you discuss this whole issue from the perspective that, indeed, if there is a situation that the President-in-Office has been able to be in this role for a short time, six months or no matter how short, and the marriage is later divorced in a few years, is it justified that he will continue to receive these benefits from the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U169	Our debate in the Commission was quite long. But, of course, there are still a variety of situations that you could sort of use to prevent. However, we did not focus on playing through or analysing these situations. But there can certainly be very different situations when the change we are proposing is implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U170	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U171	Thank you. You spoke about the logic your committee was based on and the outcome of your debate. So actually, we're talking theoretically about these issues right now. My question, too, is that some ideas come back to the agenda, only in some other form. That's why I'm still asking for the president to choose a husband, the people to elect a president, the husband not to choose. I can't imagine that some people are going to choose the president according to the fact that aha, he has a very charming or nice husband. In the case of a new husband, if it goes the way it has been here for the current president, that there has been a divorce and a new bond and a new connection, can't the President be a little hurt because society prioritises the former spouse, with whom he has nothing in common, more than who his current husband is? Theoretically, there may even be an enmity between ex-wifes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U172	Thank you for a very good and meaningful question. In particular, we did not address this case in the Commission. But I repeat: for the President who graduated from the Presidency, the law provides for a pension of 75% of his salary, which should in itself cover all kinds of expenses. The law does not prescribe why this pension is being used. It is possible that the President would also like to use the money paid to him to support his previous spouse or children, whether during or after the Presidency. It is up to him to spend the money for maintenance. We also give a clear signal to society that the family is designed to be together, to be loved, to raise children and to always care for them. This is supported by our family law. At the same time, it is also a signal that the state does not commit itself to solving different cases at the request of the representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U173	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U174	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! When the previous waitress answered the question, the ambassadors of the Central Party asked how large he considered the ten-ball scale to be the importance of this bill. Let me ask you a little bit in the other key. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and a representative of the people, how do you assess matters concerning the President's institution, his family and spouses from a public interest point of view? Does it hurt the public's sense of justice to some extent when the president changes husbands like cars? Does this affect the morals of the people, so that we should deal with it to some extent and give a guideline that the president is primarily a servant of the people who should not focus on the exchange of spouses?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U175	According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, Estonia is an independent parliamentary democratic republic and the institution of the President is clearly defined in our Constitution. Other things have not been defined, such as the issue of the spouses or relations of the President being discussed here today. The way people feel about something and how discussions are held with a broad public is the subject of the day-to-day discussion in this Chamber. I wish all my colleagues strength and success in discussing how socially sensitive issues are being dissected in society and how to get feedback on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U176	Good waitress, thank you, no further questions. I will open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U177	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable hall! Some of the thoughts that arose during this round of questions and answers and throughout this debate. One little clarification. As a former diplomat, I received an external service fee and I can say that the external service fee also provides for an additional compensation for my spouse's stay in the country of residence, i.e. when accompanying him in another country, and for children. However, and it is important that this money is paid only if you are officially married and if you have dependent children with you in that country. This is such a small clarification, perhaps as a piece of information, that fits in with the mosaic we are talking about at the moment in relation to the President's institution. Now, there was one thing that really stuck in the ear during this whole debate. It is as if we are only doing this law for a few people, because of President Ilves, who has married for the third time, because of Evelin Ilves, who now has a long nose, and because of Ieva Kupce, or Ieva Ilves, who will receive the support of the Estonian taxpayer for the rest of his life. No, we're not doing this law for these people! Our proposal looks further. I also recommend that everyone read the book 'The First Ladies of the United States', published in Estonian. There are dozens and dozens of women who have been next to the American presidents. All of them have not been husbands, some have been daughters, some have been close relatives or other women who have simply been involved in ceremonial events, where the presence of a female soul is very important and would say that it is also helpful for politics. Let's look to the future! If we believe in the Republic of Estonia, and I believe that we all believe in the Republic of Estonia, then we will have the next President this year and then in five years either the same person will continue or there will be a new President. And then again new and again new and again new and again new. And they have different husbands. Some presidents may be single, some may take their daughter with them to ceremonial events. Let's think ahead and think wider! Let's not just think about Ilves! There are three of them in this picture right now, but this picture isn't complete. They're in one corner of the picture, and if this picture is a live picture, they're slowly disappearing from that corner. Let's think that the next president is perhaps Fox, then comes Bear, then comes Hunt and then comes again maybe Ilves, and it's not out of the question, then comes Nugis and then comes the Crop and then comes maybe Kask, Pine, Kuusk, etc. Let's think about it! We are making a law that provides for a fair distribution of benefits even for those we do not know about at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U178	Thank you. Please ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U179	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If we look a little higher at the discussion over this bill, we should see that this is a standard situation from the point of view of the Riigikogu. If one law has ever been passed, which has created problems that are currently the basis of this draft, then the only thing we can say is that it is a law that is broken. At the time of adoption, at least the leading committee and, of course, the hall should have considered the various options. I have at all been of the opinion that there is relatively little relevance to law making for this good intention, which will be included in the draft, and so every possible possibility of failure and abuse should be carefully considered. But here we are. And right now, there's a question of how we're going to proceed. We have been advised to exclude this draft law from the proceedings. Of course you can, but then what? The problem is, so it's either another initiative from the government or someone else. We do not have the answer right now to what happens to this problem. And for us, in turn, the question is that we are probably going to have to deal at least once a year in the next few years, but perhaps two or three times a year to deal with some simple laws adopted 15 to 20 years ago, which life requires us to improve. Is it the smartest thing to do now that we are voting it out of the procedure and that we are not correcting it? A little bit of the point. First of all, I don't like the term'service' at all. I do not know where it comes from, it has probably come into Estonian like German. For many reasons, however, I do not like it. First of all, because, at least for me, the opposite words are a pair of 'benefits' and 'bad'. If anyone can talk about benefits, I'm about to have a question, at least in my head, what are the bad guys? Now this statement that, after the President's term of office, the President's work will not cease. This job should be something we all see and know. We haven't had that chance. But even if some former president would say that he does not want to deal with his former affairs at all after the end of his term of office and not even to talk to people about it, society will probably force it on him. Because in the minds of the people or in the minds of a very large number of voters, people who have been heads of state will continue to do so as long as they are able to participate in political life. That, in my opinion, is the basic thing behind this law. That is why it has been considered necessary for the state to continue to support the actions of these people, even if they are not pensioners. In general, this set of benefits has two essential elements of substance. One is the remuneration of the so-called 'continuation work' mentioned above. The second, of course, is a special pension. They're both back here. There are also various combinations. But it is right that the former writers of this law came from such a model, or it was an ideal for them, that there will be heads of state in Estonia who are likely to be married and are also married, that the husband will help the heads of state at his work, just as it is quite common in Europe and as many voters expect. It is also based on the assumption that this cooperation will probably continue after the Head of State has ceased to hold office. But there's actually a lot of opportunities in life. Today, for example, we are in a situation where divorce has taken place and we do not know how to view it in the light of this law. And in the future, we may also have a head of state with a husband who refuses all kinds of public duties. This is also possible, and many other things are also possible. So the question isn't simple. I think that we would find the right solutions, if we were to treat everything that we understand as professional benefits, as a single comprehensive package, and if we removed the separate spouse's remuneration from the law. It is likely that some kind of mechanism should be found to divide parts of this overall package between several people, should this division prove necessary. However, it is quite possible that in many cases there will be no need to share. What I think now is that if we vote this draft out of the procedure, which seems to be the political decision of the government coalition, we should find another way to go on with this law very quickly, perhaps a better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-17_U180	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 40 members of the Riigikogu, 23 against and no abstentions, 168 have been rejected at first reading and fall out of the procedure. The third item is closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 12.17 p.m.
