ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 10th working week. Do colleagues want to hand over drafts and enquiries? Jaanus Karilaid, please! Colleagues, attention! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Seven EKREs and nine of the parliamentary politicians of the Centre Party have a question to address to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. We ask you to check the conformity of e-elections with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The Constitution states that elections are general, uniform and direct. Our success story of e-elections has been discussed since 2005 when e-elections were first implemented. Already in 2006 and 2007, it was said that the whole world admires our e-elections, that the whole of Europe is raging with e-elections. The United States is admiring, the countries of the European Union are admiring, but for some reason, apart from admiration, we do not see anyone applying an e-election in their democratic procedures and following our example. So it seems there are some questions left unanswered. We have four very specific questions. How do you assess the constitutional requirement that elections must be... [[Someone's calling out that the hall is noisy and can't hear anything. The manager's ringing the bell.]] We have four questions and we expect answers from the Prime Minister. We hope that our democratic procedures will be much more transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U3	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! I have an inquiry from seven members of the Estonian Free Party to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. The inquiry focuses on Ida-Virumaa. An action plan has been drawn up for the development of Ida-Viru County with very large and beautiful objectives. It also has an implementation plan that is right on several points, even with specific costs. Our questions, which are the way of questioning, focus precisely on the implementation plan for this action plan, as it was due to be launched as early as 2015. We ask where the objectives have been achieved. And the questioning is, of course, borne with great concern about the general situation in Ida-Virumaa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U5	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to announce on behalf of the National Defence Committee that the Commission will initiate a draft law amending § 13 of the National Defence Act. The purpose of the draft is to lay down in the National Defence Act the obligation for the Government of the Republic to inform the President of the Republic of the decision to increase defence readiness. The government currently has an obligation to inform the Riigikogu, but the National Defence Committee considers that such an important decision must also be notified to the supreme leader of national defence, and this obligation must also be stated in our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U7	Thank you. There is no further request for referrals or drafts. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries and one draft, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now the messages. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, after the end of the plenary session, there will be a start-up meeting of the support group for carers and carers in this Chamber. The caller is Helmen Hunter. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U8	On today's agenda, we have three points. The first item is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Aliens Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. I will briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First of all, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise will report for up to 20 minutes. This will be followed by a presentation by Andres Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, including up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. Representatives of committees and political groups, as well as all other members of the Riigikogu, may participate in the negotiations. After negotiations, the vote on the proposal shall take place. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the first item on the agenda, which is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Aliens Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. I ask for a presentation by Chancellor of Justice of the Speaker's Office, Ülle Madise!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I ask you to bring § 118 of the Aliens Act, which deals with the grounds for granting a temporary residence permit, into line with § 12, 26 and 27 of the Constitution. The reason for this proposal is the concern of several people who have approached the Chancellor of Justice, the reason for which we have come to the conclusion that the law currently in force treats those Estonian citizens who have resided permanently in the Republic of Estonia and have not moved to another Member State of the European Union and become resident there, unduly worse than those who have left their home country in the meantime. There is no reasonable justification for such an absurd situation. The question is whether it is possible to apply for a residence permit for a same-sex partner who is a third-country national. As usual, we examined the extent and situation of the problem in other countries as well as thoroughly analysed the possible places of abuse and possible side effects when the Riigikogu decides to support the proposal. As usual, let me briefly give you an overview of this. First of all, the scale of the problem. Dr. Margus Redab has said, and I think there's reason to believe that those people who have such biological features in their brains that they prefer the same-sex life partner are about a few percent. Of those who want to live a family life in the Republic of Estonia with a person who is not a citizen of either the Republic of Estonia or any other country of the European Union, there is, of course, even less. But three applications have been submitted to the Police and Border Guard Board. In addition, a number of questions have been asked whether it is possible to apply for a residence permit for a partner, and they have been answered in the negative. The Estonian LGBT Association has also approached us. So there are specific people. As I have said in this Chamber before, when the real concern that is caused by the illegal rule comes to us, even if there are only three or ten of these people, we will still come to you with this concern. So it is a question of granting a residence permit. I immediately apologise for using the term'residence permit' in the sense of simplicity, although in some cases the correct term would be 'right of residence', as those who are familiar with the legislation on foreigners know. It comes from the law of a citizen of the European Union, but in its freakiness, this concept may make it more difficult, so forgive me, but I am talking about a permanent residence permit. Outside the immigration quota, you can move to Estonia with your spouse. It is clear that this is a normal family merger for the purpose of family life. If family life in Estonia is wanted by partners of different sexes, then they can get married according to Estonian law. Since 2009, there is also a Supreme Court ruling which says that preventing family life from marrying if there are any objective impediments to marriage is unlikely to be constitutional either. These are cases where someone who wants to marry is not supplied with the necessary documents from another country, for example. We now come to the heart of the proposal that only a citizen of the European Union or an Estonian citizen who has lived somewhere else in the European Union can bring a same-sex partner to live with him or her. Thus, those people who have remained in their home countries are treated worse by the Estonian state without a reasonable reason. No such reason has come up. Of course, the answer came to those who turned to us. Yes, this situation is not only absurd, but also unconstitutional in our opinion. During the Riigikogu debate, a number of questions were asked, and some of them I will answer here proactively. Yes, of course, even if a residence permit is applied for for for the purpose of family life, the person's compliance with certain requirements will be checked. For example, a factual partnership will also be assessed in this case. The methods of doing so were introduced by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, as far as I know, by several other members of the Riigikogu and, of course, we had made this clear to ourselves. Of course, this must be a real partnership; the Republic of Estonia does not have to allow people to settle here who falsely provide information about their goals for coming to Estonia. What does family life mean? In the context of the Estonian Constitution, this also means a lasting spiritual bond, where it is humane to allow the establishment of a common home, to live together. According to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, such a lasting spiritual link and family life is also possible between partners of the same sex, and countries also have a duty to recognise such partnerships as family life, not to interfere with it, not to prevent it, and even more so: the state must establish legal regulation so that these people can regulate their property and family relations. Does this mean a requirement to be married? No, it doesn't. This is not the result of any human rights court ruling, nor is it the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Is this about adoption? No, it has nothing to do with adoption. The question arises: if, for the purpose of living a real family life, some other grounds for applying for a residence permit are honestly allowed to enter Estonia without looking for the same-sex Estonian citizen's partner, for example, does this mean that polygamous marriages must be allowed in the future? The answer is obviously no. The relevant references to both the Directive, the case law and the legal analysis, of course, exist and are presented. We examined the whole subject thoroughly. So, in summary, the current discriminatory regulation of Estonian citizens who have not left their home country is contrary to §§ 12, 26 and 27 of the Constitution. This is unjustified unequal treatment. This is because the state is violating the ban on interfering with people's private relations, and thirdly, the state has not created legal conditions here so that the real family members can live together. That's all for the start. I'd love to hear your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U10	Thank you. My colleague Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U11	Good manager! Good waitress! I understand that this is a proposal concerning three unfortunate homo couples. But here's what I'm asking you: how many more complaints with the same kind of volume that two or three unfortunate people are in trouble for some legal provision that goes against the Constitution? How many are there, and what do they concern? Will you come to us with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U12	As has been said, the task of the Chancellor of Justice and the obligation contained in the oath of office is that if even one person in the Republic of Estonia is caught between the cogs due to an unconstitutional norm, I come before the National Council and I propose that the norm be brought into line with the Constitution. There are more than three victims in this particular case, but three people have applied to the Police and Border Guard Board. Several have given it up. There can't be too many of them because of the laws of nature, but that doesn't make the problem go away.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U13	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U14	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Your Honor, Chancellor! You're talking about the absurd situation and the violation of the Constitution. You have an interesting office, your office has not found a constitutional defect, for example in e-elections or Greek aid packages or abortions or border agreements, but now you will find it unconstitutional to import three homosexuals. Firstly, I want a more precise explanation of what European Union regulation obliges countries to make homosexual marriages legal at all. And secondly, I ask that, when the Constitution was adopted in a referendum in 1992 and they were put into effect in § 26 and § 27 of the Constitution, did you really consider that the concept of family was also meant by the same-sex combinations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U15	As I have already said, marriage of same-sex persons is not mentioned in the proposal. This proposal does not concern the marriage of same-sex persons in any way. Neither EU law nor the case law of the European Court of Human Rights implies the obligation to allow the marriage of same-sex persons, but the obligation to treat same-sex persons as a spiritual bond, a permanent relationship and a desire to establish a common household as a family life, which is protective both under the human rights convention and under the provisions of the family law of the Republic of Estonia. Marriage is a completely different issue, and this is not the subject of this proposal. The concept of family life, like so many other phenomena that the Estonian Constitution deals with, has changed in time, and the Republic of Estonia has committed itself, by joining the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, to complying with the principles of this Convention. In this regard, Estonia has committed itself to the positions of the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, they do not need to be taken over without criticism and one to one, but the argument in this regard is very important and has already reached the decisions of the Estonian Supreme Court, as well as this hall. So the meaning of protected family life is now different. But I repeat, the question of marriage must be kept separate. The other problems you have referred to, in which your political positions are somehow confused with legal positions at times, I will no doubt respect your right to it, and this is the place of a more detailed dispute. What I can do and what I have undertaken to do with the oath of office is to give legal opinions on the basis of the best knowledge. You do politics here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U16	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U17	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You indicated that you have also studied the practice of other countries. That's what I'm interested in. What is, in general, the practice of the European Union countries on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U18	Thirteen countries also allow same-sex marriages, civil partnerships registered in more than half of the countries or, to some extent, the recognition of these relationships. If you are interested, my good advisers, who are currently watching this broadcast online, will be able to send detailed information on this in your mailbox. Now this question is that the country treats its own citizens worse than those who are citizens of other European Union countries, or those who have their own citizens, but who have lived in another European Union country in the meantime. This problem exists in some countries. It is precisely because of the lack of regulation, i.e. because of a similar problem, that the case against Italy is currently under way. In the middle of February, the case against Pajic Croatia was resolved. The regulation, which did not allow the same-sex partner from a third country to be brought into the country for the purpose of family life, although all other requirements were met, this person is not in danger of public order; this person is able to support himself; this family life is real, was considered to be unacceptably discriminatory. But the Italian solution has yet to come to my knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U19	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Chancellor of Justice! If there is a spiritual bond and there is an invitation and there is a desire to create a family in the same sex, who will at the same time verify that this spiritual bond is not divided? What if this spiritual bond is formed with a number of people? Perhaps this same interest in creating a family is creating a new industry in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U21	Very good question, thank you. The regulation of family reunification, currently contained in the Aliens Act, is relatively strict. The fact that a partnership is real, permanent, that the state has not been given false information about a partnership and a spiritual bond is essentially checked on a yearly basis. And, of course, if these grounds for residence permit fall away, then a person can no longer live legally in Estonia on this basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U22	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U23	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Chancellor! I'm coming to that spiritual bond, too. I have a deep spiritual connection with England, English culture. This, however, does not give me any right or opportunity to obtain English citizenship or permission to reside there. I'm curious how officials will appreciate this spiritual bond. What criterion is this based on? Is there a scale here or has someone developed a series of criteria to evaluate and grant a residence permit to a person? That's one question. The second question is: what is currently preventing the problems that people wishing to live together from solving with other legislation, including notarial agreements?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U24	Thank you for your question. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has conducted a thorough separation between fictitious marriages and fictitious partnerships from actual partnerships and marriages. Experts from the Police and Border Guard Board also attended the meeting of the Commission. Indeed, there are methods to evaluate the true spiritual bond of real family life. They need not only to be applied to partners but also to spouses. After all, there are cases where fictitious marriages are used to settle in a country. It is the task of the State to identify these cases. So these methods are entirely there. Once again, if you have a deeper interest, we will be happy to provide information on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U25	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I am reading here these legal reasons for the proposal, and point 5 refers very directly to the main problem, which is why we are here today and are discussing this issue. On 9 October, the Riigikogu passed the Law on Cohabitation last year to enable the same-sex partnership. Unfortunately, as we know, the law on partnership states in black and white that it will enter into force with implementing legislation. But they're not, and hopefully they won't. This position is also confirmed by the Ministry of Justice: the Cohabitation Act is not yet in force. Please assess whether the Minister of Justice, together with his ministry, is wrong if he claims that the Cohabitation Act does not apply, or if, as one argument, you are wrong about point 5, where you refer to the current Cohabitation Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U27	The question of whether the Cohabitation Act would enter into force upon the entry into force of the implementing acts or whether it was merely a declaratory obligation to develop those implementing acts was answered by 1 January of this year. In fact, on that day, the State Gazette showed this act to be valid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U28	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U29	Your Honor, Chancellor! The law of foreigners was born once in its own time for very specific purposes, and it is not impossible that maybe this law has become conceptually obsolete by now. At present, § 118 contains a list of which, after all, this proposal is essentially aimed at supplementing it with another point. If this list were missing and instead the decision-making power of the Minister of the Interior had been laid down, without any indication on the basis of which he or she would have to make a decision, would you or anyone else in your position in such a case see the reason to come before Parliament with a problem of constitutional illegality?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U30	Honourable questioner, once again a very good question! As I prepared to come to you, I read the Aliens Act again in its version, which has now changed very much from the original one, as well as the European Union Citizen's Act, and came to the conclusion that my opinion that the most complicated laws in Estonia are tax laws is not true. The law of foreigners with all its strange terminology, which allows, among other things, to grant a temporary residence permit of up to five years in order to settle permanently in Estonia and much more, requires a rather high level of mental pilotage and extremely thorough examination of these standards. These issues are currently very detailed. This is the Riigikogu's choice and it certainly cannot be considered to be contrary to the Constitution. At this point in § 118 there is no basis for bringing a same-sex partner from a third country to Estonia, unless it is a citizen of the European Union who lives in Estonia and invites to live here, or an Estonian citizen who has lived in another European Union country and then invites a partner to live here, but is simply our own fellow citizen who has not left his country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U31	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Your Honor, Chancellor! The claim that the Cohabitation Act applies is purely political. It's kind of weird to hear that from you. You also expressed a rather radical view that the desire to live together means family life. Is there no legal difference between family and family life anymore? It's a question. There is a clear desire here that, under the label of family life, you try to replace officially registered and legal marriage with basically nothing, in other words, to destroy the institution of marriage. Is there no difference between family life and a desire to live together?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U33	I'll start with the first question. I do not know how it is under the Rules of Procedure to ask a number of questions from a completely different area at once, but I am very happy to answer. If I told you that the Cohabitation Act is not in force now, while the State Gazette with legal force says it is, I would violate the Constitution and the oath of office. I won't do it. This is not a political argument, it is a legal argument. Open the State Gazette. We have no other source, this law is shown as valid in the Official Journal of the State. Secondly, I respect marriage, and under no circumstances do I wish to humiliate the institution of marriage in any way, and this proposal cannot have such a conjecture or conclusion in any way connected with it. I was trying to explain that, unlike you and I, a lot of people, unfortunately, can't get married or have not done so for any other reason. And today's case law of the European Court of Human Rights states that these people also have the right to live in a family life.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U34	Thank you. A member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask in one minute as much as he knows how to integrate questions into one question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U35	Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U36	But you have to make it in one minute. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good Ülle Madise! I would very much like to congratulate you as a lawyer and as the Chancellor of Justice, who is the first to recognise the invisible links between people from this Riigikogu board. Because it is precisely the invisible ties that hold society together, that hold people together with their country and with their loved ones. Thus, breaking the community and their invisible links can be disastrous for the whole of society. My question to you is this. How long do you think it will take for the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia to make all its members think according to the 21st century and not try to reverse history by hundreds of years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U38	Thank you for those warm words. But the Riigikogu is organised by the Riigikogu itself. I wish for strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U39	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U40	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I too join the words of recognition. You were present at a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which unanimously supported your proposal. I stress that all the parties represented in the Riigikogu voted in favour. This is also reasonable, because if even one citizen of the Republic of Estonia has been discriminated against in relation to the other citizens of the European Union present here or has left here and returned to Estonia, it is unacceptable. Here's my question. If the Riigikogu does not support your proposal, what are your next steps? Can Estonia be faced with sanctions similar to those of the European Court of Human Rights, as in the case of Italy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U41	If any such couple in Estonia does not really get the right to live in the family life here and arrives at the human rights court with their complaint, it is very likely that they will get the right there. As the Constitution and other laws make me an obligation, if today the Riigikogu does not decide to support my proposal, if I fail to convince you that the treatment of Estonian citizens who have not left their home country is worse than that of those who have been away or other citizens of the European Union living here is unconstitutional and not humane, I will go to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U42	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! You were talking about a registered couple. So how is this couple registered, what kind of relationship? Does this apply to our partnership law, or how does this registration work? In the contracts signed by the notaries, it's all just people's responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U44	Thank you very much. If the Riigikogu decides to support the proposal or if there should be a decision from the Supreme Court that would impose the same obligation on the Riigikogu that if there is a basis for applying for a residence permit to settle with a same-sex partner who lives in Estonia and has not lived in another country of the European Union, then it must be allowed, then all other conditions and restrictions will most certainly remain in force. It is not worth looking for any additional conclusions or any additional effects.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U45	Thank you, Chancellor. No further questions for you. Now I would like Mr Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U46	Good manager! Colleagues! The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the proposal of Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise to bring the Aliens Act into line with the Constitution at three sessions: 14 and 25 January and 18 February. I am not going to present the Chancellor of Justice's proposal in full again here, because I believe the Chancellor of Justice did so in very detail, talking about the legal background of the proposal and the practical cases behind it. On 14 January, the Chancellor of Justice was present at the meeting of the Commission, and many of the same questions that were discussed at the time, the Chancellor of Justice has just brought them up here. Perhaps, however, some nuances need to be stressed. It has been asked how to check the real life together of these people, how it is proven that it is not fictitious, how it is done. As has already been pointed out here, the burden of proof lies with the couple themselves, also under the current Aliens Act, when applying for a residence permit to settle with their spouse. Since this issue attracted quite a lot of interest, on 25 January, when the second debate on this proposal took place, people from the Police and Border Guard Board were also invited to discuss this issue in more detail. Let me jump to the sitting on 25 January where this issue was discussed in greater detail. Members of the Commission wanted to know whether the Police and Border Guard Board had discretion to grant the residence permit, for example if the person did not meet the criteria for any type of residence permit, whether the residence permit had to be refused. A representative of the Police and Border Guard Board replied that the Aliens Act lays down very specific grounds for granting a residence permit and has its own conditions on all grounds. If the person does not meet these conditions, he or she will not be granted a residence permit. It is also important to note that, like other countries of the European Union, Estonia also uses the relevant guidance material of the European Union, which helps to identify, by means of certain questions, that cohabitation or marriage is not fictitious. Best practice has been taken as a basis. On the basis of this best practice, officials will assess the circumstances on the basis of which they can be better assessed. Examples include a common household, an emotional bond, and much more that has emerged in practice. What else? Perhaps it should be noted that the Members of the Commission also examined from the Chancellor of Justice what happens when it comes to third-country nationals whose home country's marriage practices do not correspond to those that apply in Estonia and in Europe as a whole. The Chancellor of Justice felt that if these practices did not conform at all to the customs that apply in our judicial area, there was no need to recognise them either. A very important point that the Chancellor of Justice pointed out later explained this information to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in further detail was the concept of reverse discrimination. In order to increase general excitement, I will give you the Chancellor of Justice's advisor's explanation that this concept comes from European Union law. Discrimination refers to differences in unlawful treatment, reverse discrimination, both legitimate and unlawful treatment. In this case, the nature of the reverse discrimination lies in the fact that the law of the European Union grants certain rights to citizens moving from one country to another and, for example, if a Dutch citizen who comes to live in Estonia can, by virtue of the law of the European Union, take a same-sex partner from his/her third-country national, Estonian citizens have not been granted such a right under Estonian law. The Chancellor of Justice added that it is also a right for an Estonian citizen who has been a resident of another country in the meantime. The Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice continued that this was the benefit of European Union law, and the question is whether or not the same rights should be extended directly to permanent Estonian citizens by virtue of the Constitution. This situation is a reverse discrimination. The question then is to what extent we must extend the benefits of European Union law to our own citizens. That was the ampouaa of the questions and answers discussed by the Riigikogu in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On 18 February there was a final debate on the proposal and procedural decisions were also taken. I also note here that at that last sitting, a Member of the Commission had the idea that, if such laws contain final lists, they would be aliens from the very beginning. The right way out could be to give the Minister or anyone else in the Aliens Act a power of decision on this matter. Ülle Madise also replied to this proposal at the end of her presentation today. But now procedural decisions: in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it was decided to support the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice (by 3, 2 against, 2 abstentions) and to appoint Mr Andres Anvelt as rapporteur. This decision was made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U47	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! A purely self-educating question. Let us reverse the history wheel: as a former police officer, you once held a witch hunt for the same sexes in accordance with Article 118 of the ESSR Criminal Code. How did your rebirth or rebirth begin? What means of meditation have you used to understand how badly you were wrong during the Soviet Union and that the same-sex, and all of this, is very right and for God's sake, should no one be discriminated against? In your youth, when you were overhanded, you wanted to put them all in jail, and you called them "P" in a derogatory word, I'm not gonna say it. Why don't you give me some advice on what meditation methodology might be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U49	First of all, I suggest some people talk seriously to their psychiatry. This is the best advice, which can provide very simple and exhaustive answers to many questions that come into your mouth with saliva. But that's it. I can tell my good colleague that this issue was not discussed in the Commission. I would add, however, that even when I managed to work in the police for a few years, no normal intelligent employee of this body was involved in catching people who were interested in the same sexes. It wasn't anyone's job. Perhaps this has been a task in another organisation, or how I say it, in party politics, which perhaps applies to some local government that wants to harass these people. This assignment was not assigned to us, and I have never carried out this task. In my opinion, the questioning of such questions, which, moreover, in no way concerns today's item on the agenda, is unethical and ugly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U50	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U51	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We had interesting and educational conversations in the Commission. But in order for the large hall and the public to know what has been said there, I ask how the Estonian authorities will prove the close spiritual and physical connection between the two homosexuals. I remember we were told that Inspector Kukeke would suddenly knock on the door and see if the bed was warm. How do you comment on the proof that was explained to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U52	Such a question could have been answered very well from a "folk's own defence" show, where two hostesmen described same-sex cohabitation as not only some kind of bedtime activity, but these people vacuum their homes, go shopping, pay bills, and most of their lives live just like couples of different sexes. According to the employees of the PBA, their cohabitation is evidenced by common utilities payments, real estate maintenance and other common costs and by a number of other factors that confirm that people live together and share a common household. I also argue that there are certainly many heterosexual couples in Estonia whose bed is not warm every day, but they still pay common bills.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U53	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U54	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite a pleasure to look at such a correct speaker with a beautiful purple shirt and handkerchief, which will probably symbolically help to convey your message to the hall. However, I still want to ask whether the desire to live together is the same as family life, family and marriage, so it gives someone a legal basis for living in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U55	Good colleague! I think I have the right to refuse to answer such a stupid question. Whatever color is in my shirt or tie does not touch at all today's debate. Perhaps after a while you would go to the door of the hall and wonder if you were acting as one politician is right now, or if you were acting like one simple, unintelligent person.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U56	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Are we not voting today on whether or not this provision in the Aliens Act is contrary to the Constitution and on nothing else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U58	That's right. You're right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U59	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U60	Thank you, Deputy Speaker! Good colleague and waitress! I'll ask as politely as possible. Was that what the Commission was talking about, and if it wasn't, what can you say about it? Is it, how it was, a spiritual bond and a desire to live together you think it's the same thing as an official marriage?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U61	That was discussed in the Commission. But the debate was more about how officials can still prove that a spiritual bond and cohabitation is real, that it is a substantive partnership. Rather, the problem was discussed on this side and it was understood that when people share a common living space, regardless of their sex or, say, their sexual intercourse must be based primarily on the desire to live together. This criterion, on the basis of which it is decided whether people are together in a fictitious or factual manner, is based exactly on the same basis in both marriage and cohabitation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U62	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U63	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Chancellor of Justice brought before us a micro-problem, which is said to be a major constitutional problem, and claimed that it was pure legal, it had nothing to do with politics. I'm sorry, we don't agree with that in any way. This is clearly an ideological undertaking, which attempts to undermine the concept of family, attempts to undermine Estonia's strict, conservative immigration policy, attempts to enforce the law of unfulfilled partnership by small slices. It is a pure policy and it is clearly an ideological step. It is sad that such things have been put into the office of the Chancellor of Justice. It could be left on the shoulders of the sots. So... [[Someone's clapping in the hall.]] Yes, please! So there's nothing to do. When we read the Chancellor of Justice's reasoning, although he himself assured us that they were all thoroughly considered, discussed and convincing, there was, in fact, a great deal of ambivalentity, a great deal of polychemical. As a summer traveller, my claim is that one or the other rather sought by the European Court of Human Rights is a reason to start turning our constitution and our state order upside down, albeit by thin slices. I will also take care of the question whether or not some of the things that have appeared in the Official Journal of the State are valid. It can also be recorded in the national register that the moon is cheese, but that is not why it is not yet. So we certainly do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U64	Thank you. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U65	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to the Chancellor of Justice's presentation, as well as the questions that were asked to him, and felt rather close to the members of the EKRE. I too am an ardent defender of the traditional family. Like many members of the EKRE, I have divorced. The similarities may be limited because after I got divorced, I didn't start getting married immediately, but I started living together. I lived in Sweden at the time, it was possible to cohabitate and it was possible to get protection and recognition in the framework of a cohabitation, both for my property-shared relationship with a partner and for children. I found my partner in Estonia, I was in Sweden. But to prove we live together, we went through a real gauntlet. And I understand that the Estonian Police and Border Guard Board has basically taken over exactly the same methodology to prove that the relationship you claim to have with someone is real. So I've been checked out, and my partner, too, looked at early in the morning, whether the bed is warm or not, and where the toothbrushes are, and asked both what the other one reads or doesn't count at all. The result is that we have lived happily together for 26 years and have even been married for many years. But that's not really what I wanted to talk about. I wanted to tell you that I also feel that it is very simple for me in that sense. If the Chancellor of Justice of the Republic of Estonia comes before the Riigikogu and says that there is a contradiction with the Constitution, then we should not have too much right to think about whether or not I am now going to reorganize something. That should be our responsibility: to review it, to initiate this process. And that's what we're discussing right now. The same thing happened in the previous Riigikogu. Then I did fight the social democrats of my new friends today. This was a collective agreement law in which the Chancellor of Justice saw a contradiction with the Constitution. A good friend, Eiki Nestor, then made it clear to me that the Chancellor of Justice's office could produce two color papers: blue and pink. If it is blue, then it is not such an awesome document, and that was the colour of the proposal for a collective agreement. If it's pink, it's serious. We are currently faced with a pink paper from the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, which indicates that there is a conflict with the Constitution in the Estonian legal system. In my opinion, it is our duty to analyse this more accurately and eliminate this contradiction if we find that it really exists. And finally. For me, it is completely incomprehensible that the representatives of EKRE, on the one hand, are talking about cheese and the half-month here, concerning the question of whether or not the partnership law published in the Official Journal applies, but, on the other hand, they initiate, in a consistent manner, the annulment of this non-existent cohabitation law. Dear people, make up your mind! If the Cohabitation Act is in force, apply for a declaration of invalidity. If he's not valid, let him not. In itself, it's a little inadequate behavior. It's like you're going home from this Riigikogu every night and you're starting to tear down some building that doesn't really exist on your site. But if it's your policy, good luck to you! In any case, I intend to deal with things that are real. And if there is a contradiction with the Constitution, I think that we can eliminate it, and I would also recommend it to all of my groupmates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U66	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, § 118 (1) of the current Aliens Act gives an alien the right to apply for a residence permit in order to settle with a spouse residing in Estonia, but does not provide for the granting of a residence permit to persons not legally married but still residing in a registered partnership if they are foreigners whose residence in Estonia requires the existence of a residence permit. Thus, a family based on marriage with an alien party has the right and the opportunity to create a common home in Estonia, but the same couple do not have the same type of registered partnership. It is important to note that it is not at all important in this matter whether it is a same-sex or a different-sex couple; the decisive factor is the existence or absence of a family-law relationship in the form of marriage. Indeed, it is the violation of the fundamental right enshrined in § 12 of the Constitution that everyone is equal before the law. In essence, the treatment of individuals depends not on the actual nature of the relationship, but only on its formalisation. This situation is unacceptable and needs to be changed. Equal treatment of people in granting cohabitation is required both by the Estonian Constitution and by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms to which Estonia has acceded. Since same-sex partners are unable to get married in Estonia, unlike the special-sex partners, they do not have the opportunity to take steps to fulfil the conditions laid down in the Aliens Act for obtaining a residence permit for the purpose of living together. There is no reasonable justification for less favourable treatment compared to the spouses of same-sex partners. Nor is there any reasonable justification why registered partnerships between partners of different sexes are not recognised as a basis for obtaining a residence permit. The Socialist Group shares the view of the Chancellor of Justice that the right of partners to live in Estonia, inter alia, if one of the parties to the relationship is not a citizen of the European Union, falls within the area of equality of fundamental rights, family fundamental rights and the protection of family and privacy as set out in our Constitution. The essence of family fundamental rights and the integrity of family life is the right of family members and the opportunity to be with each other, including the possibility to be with each other, to establish a common home and to live together there. To this end, family members must be able to live together in one country. In the case of foreign law, this means the obligation of the state to establish a legal basis for obtaining a residence permit in Estonia based on equal treatment, i.e. for family members to be able to live together. This right can only be restricted on grounds of refusal to grant a residence permit as provided for by law, rather than inconsiderately and merely depending on the form of partnership. In summary, the Group of the Social Democratic Party as a whole has unanimously taken a position in support of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. I would certainly invite other colleagues to follow our example. The optimism is due to the fact that the debate on this subject in the Committee on Legal Affairs has shown that, regardless of political affiliation, colleagues understand the current situation against the Constitution. In particular, the Committee on Legal Affairs supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice by consensus. Paragraph 118 of the Aliens Act must be brought into line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U68	Thank you. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The IRL Group does not see a violation of the Constitution on this issue. In our opinion, the debate on the provisions of the Aliens Act on family mergers is clearly political. This is the subject of political debate and, consequently, political choice, not a legal obligation, although, as such, it has been brought before us today through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This issue has been up in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for quite a long time, as far as I know, for almost six months. There have been discussions and, as we heard from the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the views were actually divergent. There were two ways of understanding whether or not we had an unconstitutional situation that had to be resolved. In our view, this is not the case, particularly because it is a rather extensive extension of the possibility of family membership. If we take the next step from this point of view, we can come to the fact that the right of association is universal and must be guaranteed for all couples living in a factual partnership, not just for couples of the same sex that we are talking about today. A separate issue concerns beneficiaries of international protection, whose rights should be interpreted in a broader way. Therefore, the honourable Parliament, if it is to deal with the right of families to join as enshrined in the Aliens Act, we believe that this can always be done. Parliament's sovereign right is to discuss problems and take decisions during the political debate. Today, we are discussing whether this is a breach of the Constitution, a breach of the Constitution. In our opinion, that is not the case. This is why the IRL Group does not support this proposal. Of course, this does not mean that discussions cannot continue. But we must separate the legal approach from this political debate, certainly this proposal must not be taken as a legal obligation to which Parliament is bound. Therefore, the IRL Group does not support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal and we call for others to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U70	Thank you. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U71	I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U72	Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U73	I join the main arguments of the previous speaker that this is not a constitutional issue. This is not a legal issue at all. Of course, in the world, it is always possible to bring all substantive issues to legal level and present them in this way. Sometimes it's probably been practical, but it's not the best way to solve it for everything. When the Constitution was written, when it was written, the questions that are being discussed today were probably not in the minds of any of the writers. At the time, there were other assignments. So this possible contradiction that we are deciding on today is not a contradiction with the original text of the Constitution. It's a question that's meant to be added afterwards or written as comments, and there's a small technical difference. Our laws on the conditions under which the state of Estonia permits or does not permit foreigners on its surface have a very long history, based on practice. It started even before the restoration of Estonia's independence, when no one really expected us to get out of the Soviet Empire. Then the concept of quota became one of the instruments of so-called national self-defence. He didn't do much good, but he made it possible to talk a lot. At this time, it is obvious anachronism in our laws and it could be completely lost. There have been many practical reasons for writing the law on foreigners and all subsequent changes that I am not going to write down here. They do not include the issue we are discussing today. If there is any problem here at all, it is a practical problem of organising people's movements, not more or less. How could this problem have arisen? That's very interesting. There is a questionable methodological principle that has been applied in a number of Estonian laws. By the way, even in the case of the Constitution, the question is whether it is right to use an exhaustive list, i.e. to write down a number of conditions under which one must act in the same way, and to conclude that any other conditions not included in the list should be treated differently. The Constitutional Assembly was also debating this. I am still convinced that, from the point of view of the protection of democracy, the exhaustive lists in the Constitution have been useful, but the existence of exhaustive lists always creates contradictions. Life is still more complicated than one can foresee on any list. Sooner or later, in the case of exhaustive lists, the situation will be reached as we do now: one of the lists in the Aliens Act does not contain the cases that the Chancellor of Justice explained to us today. So how do we proceed now? First of all, we need to understand that the great evil of exhaustive lists is that if they are not illustrative, if they are seriously intended for practical implementation, then it means that all cases that are not on the list are therefore prohibited. And banning is gonna be a lot of trouble. We do not see a fundamental general principle of prohibition on this issue raised by the Chancellor of Justice. Banning may be practical in some third-fourth-century circumstances; there may not be a fundamental ban. In order to break the ban, there is no need to start tilting the legal system with some very ambitious fundamental rights theories or something like that. In my opinion, it is right to move forward in such a way as to make a corresponding amendment to the Aliens Act. I do not think that this change should at all consist in writing a text or even a single word. It is likely that rewording, or even the use of an erasing gum, would be sufficient. One unnecessary list of prohibitions should be deleted and competent public officials should be given the opportunity to make reasonable decisions. If this is not the case, if this list is supplemented by one more point, then in a year or two we will be faced with another task to add another point, because another issue has arisen in life that hinders people's movement and self-realization. Jne, et cetera. For certain reasons, we have gone too far with legal detailed regulation, thus making the practical functioning of our country ridiculous in some respects. That's what we could give up. But coming back to the beginning with a circle: it is not a question of constitutional contradiction. This is a matter of rational practical organisation of state life.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U74	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal and we will go to the vote on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. My colleague Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U75	On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U76	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, Break is over. Let's get to the vote. I shall put to the vote who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 19 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, I hereby instruct the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, pursuant to § 152 of the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, to initiate a draft to bring § 118 of the Aliens Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U78	Let us move on to today's second item. The Riigikogu Committee on Research to identify possible risks of corruption at Tallinna Sadam has submitted a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu Research Committee', which bears the number 194, to investigate possible corruption in the management of the public limited company Port of Tallinn and the measures necessary to prevent such cases in the future. Let's start reading it first. The rapporteur is Artur Talvik, Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U79	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby request, on behalf of the Commission, an extension to the deadline for the work of our committee. The reason for the extension is that we have more material than we thought. We've been dealing in quite detail with the icebreaker Botnica case for quite a long time, and it was effective. In doing this work, the Commission found grounds for suspecting a crime, sent material to the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor's office added the so-called Botnica case to the general investigation and then passed it on. We've been very busy these past few months, we've had two sessions a week. Two interviewees have been heard at each session and overall the volume of work has become very high. The number of pages in the tenograms is already well above 400, and it takes a lot of time to compile the report. As of now, we are planning to interview about 12 other people, while the rest of the time we are going to devote to writing the report. From the writing of the report, we still need at least three weeks to confirm this report among ourselves and then send it to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and to the Port of Tallinn for review. According to the current plan, we are asking for an extension until 16 June, but our real desire is to finish the job in the last days of May. I would ask for your support to extend the work of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U80	Thank you. You have questions too. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U81	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Since the wish for extension really exists, maybe you would do a mid-term review in the interests of Parliament and the public, which are the most important findings or observations. Indeed, this is one of the biggest corruption affairs of recent times. There is also an interest in the construction of four ferry ships in Poland and Turkey and whether there is already information on whether, if they are not ready in time, this will mean additional costs for the taxpayer. What observations do you wish to highlight now? The public is actually waiting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U82	As I have already mentioned, above all, we have handed over the so-called Botnica case material to the prosecutor's office. For the public, however, there is indeed this big question mark why the construction of two ferry ships is 17.5 million more expensive than the construction of the other two. I'm sure those questions are. But at the moment, we have focused primarily on the role of the Council and the owner. We will certainly draw our conclusions in the report, but many of the issues we are dealing with are those that are not raised by us, but raised by our questioners, such as how the Councils are manned and other such problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U83	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U84	Thank you. Good colleague, you've already had experience doing this job. My question to you is, what do you think, in the light of these experiences, could an analogous investigative committee be set up to investigate the bankruptcy of Estonian Air?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U85	I think that, within the framework of the report, we are also raising one question about the strength of similar committees of inquiry at all. In the meantime, there was also a debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as to whether the sanctions that the Commission is authorised to impose are competent and can be used at all. However, I think the more important question is what this Riigikogu committee of inquiry is in this case. If this has been discussed clearly, the question could be raised as to which committees of inquiry are worth doing at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U86	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U87	Good manager! Good waitress! Having participated in these hearings, I can say that it has been extremely interesting and open-minded. But please explain to the big hall what would happen if we didn't extend the deadline for the committee of inquiry right now. What would happen then? Why is it really necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U88	As I have already mentioned, the report is a very important piece of work. At the moment, the advisers have spent a lot of hours writing down the verbatim, and it will take a very long time to write down the report on this basis. That's the main reason. In addition, some important key players have not yet been heard and there is no way we will be ready by 1 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U89	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The committee of inquiry has dealt with construction contracts and contracts and removed prices from them. But has attention been paid to design contracts? Are the competitions organised and supervised by the owner and who is the owner? Has the State exercised ownership supervision or has it been carried out by any private operator from whom the State has ordered this service? The ship, as such, is a highly complex structure in which, for example, welding errors and other such errors must not be present. Who is responsible for quality control? There have been cases of a ship being thrown into the water, but it will not survive on the water. Have you been paying attention to these things, too, and if you haven't, why don't you raise the subject at some point?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U91	I must stress that there is a parallel criminal investigation. When Carri Ginter was temporarily elected to the head of the management board, a legal audit was also carried out and dealt in detail with both the lease contracts and the design contracts. This work has gone in parallel. Our emphasis is more on leadership, more specifically on management above the level of management, i.e. we will examine the decisions of the board, the decisions of the owner, etc. I have to admit, it takes a hell of a lot of time and requires a certain degree of competence to infiltrate the details, as demonstrated by the Botnica case. It's not that simple. The Port of Tallinn is a large company and the details of this work are very lethal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U92	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U93	Thank you. I don't like corruption, but I don't like inefficiency either. And I must honestly admit on several points that you are standing on that board today because this committee has been relatively ineffective. I share Peeter Ernits' view that the work has been very wide-ranging and has been exciting. I myself, as a Member of the Commission, have, in a sense, contributed to this inefficiency. But then, at some point, we agreed that if we had to, we'd have night sessions, and if we had to, we'd do sessions several times a week. Now I understand that, after we get the extension permission from here, we are going to pull the pace back again and do just one session a week. I actually want to protest against it and ask what happens when you come back here on Midsummer Day and say we're not gonna be ready and want to extend. I won't vote for it anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U94	We'll wait for Midsummer. As far as efficiency is concerned, I could say that your witty talk about questions there has really taken a lot of time. I must point out that the writers of the verbatim have had to write it all down, and they say it takes a lot of time. Like I said, if we did twice as many of these sessions, the emphasis would be on our advisors or on the people who write down the verbatim. It simply takes a lot of physical time and, therefore, the report itself is stuck in lack of time. But once again, I would like to stress that we are trying to complete it by the end of May, which would be a compromise, as you even proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U95	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U96	Thank you, manager. Dear colleague Artur! I'm asking if today's committee of inquiry has discovered anything that should have been discovered by law enforcement authorities. Is there a specific discovery on which you can say that there was significant damage to the Estonian state, but it was overlooked? Have you discovered anything like this, and do you think that law enforcement bodies should be strengthened, they can't grab everything?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U97	First of all, we've discovered the story of the icebreaker Botnica. The D.A.'s office accepted these materials and found that a violation had actually been committed. But the first thing we did was go through the construction of quay 17. It was very clear from this story how the National Audit Office dealt with one case, and it took a year for them to suspect that there was some kind of fraud. It is not easy to investigate these corruption cases. Corruption, as has been repeatedly emphasised to us, is a form of crime for very smart people, and there must be a great deal of time and will for these schemes to be nibbled through.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U98	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Educate me and give me the section of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act on the basis of which a member of the Riigikogu may interrogate other people. I also have a lot of interesting issues that can effectively move forward. In any case, Mr Ernits claims that you have interrogated people in your Riigikogu investigation committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U100	Indeed, I wanted to fix Peeter, but I forgot. We're still interrogating, not interrogating. It's really our job.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U101	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U102	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The same Botnica case that has already been discussed here several times. Is it clear today why the purchase of the icebreaker, which cost 50 million, was not subject to a public competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U103	It's not clear, but we've turned this case over to the investigative bodies. I hope they answer that. There are many confusing issues that will certainly be reflected in the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U104	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U105	Thank you. Good waitress! I hope that this Commission will work effectively and on certain issues more effectively than law enforcement authorities in some ways. But we have such a small suspicion, or an example of a recent past, when Rainer Vakra was dealing with the VEB Foundation and researched everything so it seemed at least in-depth, but then he got into the coalition and it ended up with some of the results simply being made secret, some of the material was destroyed, and we didn't know anything. Can you confirm that you're trying to overcome such obstacles and we'll find out something about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U106	What do you want me to confirm? Is it that I or the Free Party Group will certainly not go to the coalition during this time? Our goal has been to be as public as possible from the outset. This report is definitely going to be public, we are not going to put anything in secret. Even if someone is trying to do so, we are standing by for the report to be as public as possible and accessible to everyone. I think that would be very good for society.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U107	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U108	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The committee was formed by decision of the Riigikogu with one task and a very specific deadline by which the committee was to complete its work. You were elected chairman of this committee by consensus. Can you appreciate what you did wrong? What mistakes in the management of the committee have you made that the committee will not be able to do its job by the deadline given by the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U109	I haven't made any mismanagement mistakes. It's just that there's a lot more material than you could have imagined. And as I mentioned in my report, we went into real details on the Botnica story, and it took a long time. But that going into the details was effective. I think that's one of the reasons. You've been to meetings yourself. If you see any ineffectiveness, let me know at the meeting. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U110	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U111	I've been to these meetings, too, but that's why. First of all, I want to get rid of the fact that I haven't been very funny or at least I haven't been very funny for a very long time. We've been talking. In my opinion, the answer to Mr Kiisler's question would be that we have invited too many people who have in fact not given anything more to the work of the Committee of Inquiry. We have invited former members of the board and management, current representatives of the board, management and owners, and also future ones, even though they are not, in fact, absolutely involved in this corruption case. And my question to you is: could it be conceivable that in this future report, which is, of course, public and very thorough, there is also a recommendation to the Riigikogu on how to define the duties of committees of inquiry in the future at all? We are now following the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, which states very briefly and in general terms what such a special committee could do. But actually, we could have some pretty good tips for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U112	Yeah, I totally agree. I also briefly mentioned that part of the report could be to make proposals for future committees of inquiry, which is their task, how much their rights are, how they should do their job. Absolutely agree!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U113	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U114	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! I'm asking about the levels of responsibility of the state company. Do you think the Council is responsible for the development and transparency of the company, or is the Minister of Administration responsible for it? How clearly are the levels of responsibility in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U115	One is clearly the ownership level, the other is clearly the Council level and the third is the management level. They're very clear in the law. But it is perhaps more a matter of competence and of the content of the decisions made. Levels are relatively well defined. But for your information, so far, no member of the Council has been punished in relation to my responsibility. I am not only talking about national companies, but about all companies with councils at all. It's like a broader issue for society at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U116	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U117	Good manager and waitress! I do not agree with my colleague, Mr Randpere, that we are just being silly and focused on talking to garbage fish. As a former investigative journalist, I say we've been on the right track. We've been trying to understand what's going on. In the investigation of corruption, it must be very widespread and then focused in order to finally reach the central characters. Yeah, we could really have met more often, but I think we've been on the right track.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U119	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Artur! Please tell me whether the Committee of Inquiry has examined not only shipbuilding contracts but also construction monitoring contracts. They are somewhat interconnected, and it is an old and well-known scheme for moving money between these contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U121	There hasn't been a very direct discussion of these, but if you're talking about the ferry construction contracts, we've been talking about this for a while. It's possible that the last ones invited to the interview will tell you more about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U122	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U123	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your reply, you called on me to draw attention to the Commission when the Commission works inefficiently. I would remind you that I have repeatedly done this in committee meetings and stressed that the Commission is working inefficiently. You have not considered, therefore, that maybe someone else should be in charge of this committee? After all, today you stand before us and you admit that you have not managed the Commission so that it can be done within the deadline for its work. Now you want us to set a new deadline. Now, if we support it, how can we have the confidence that you have learned from your mistakes and this time you will be able to finish the job by the deadline?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U124	Good colleague! I should have advised you to listen to my previous answers, and the reasons would have come out. Firstly, I do not agree that we have been ineffective and that the Commission has been inefficiently managed. Once again, we have become very detailed on some issues. I understand that the questions we've been looking at have perhaps disturbed you, but I wouldn't call it an inefficient job.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U125	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U126	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here's the question. There's no way I and a lot of others think your work is inefficient. Once you have completed this package and submitted the materials to the prosecutor's office, have you thought about such an option to present them in parallel to some sort of European Audit Committee or a corruption investigation committee? Global cases of corruption, where thousands of companies are linked, are increasingly revealed. Have you thought about putting these same data in a different system in parallel so that everything would be controlled and the truth would come out? No one could then say that this is an inefficient job or a subjective opinion that you are not relying on specific figures to insure yourself and gain a stronger footing. In this way, you would raise the problem of corruption and misuse of money more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U127	In such a case, there should be certain evidence that the whole operation has become international. Once again, the Port of Tallinn is probably now the most controlled company at various levels. There will be an audit of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Sorainen carried out legal analysis, the National Audit Office carried out its audit, our Research Committee will carry out its report, the kapo and the prosecutor's office will investigate the matter. I don't think there's a direct reason to put all this into an international investigation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U128	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U129	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the Commission, I cannot accept the fact that the Commission's work is being attempted to make the work of the Commission ineffective. You have to talk to dozens and dozens of people about the port, the ministry, the Maritime Administration. It all takes time. It is not a question of inefficiency; it is simply a matter of work. When we talk about inefficiencies, I could point out quite inappropriate jokes, stories, lines and certain guiding questions that we have heard from some of the Members of the Commission. But I would like to stress that our aim is not to do this work as quickly as possible and to close the protocol. The aim is to produce a comprehensive, honest and proper report, no matter how long it takes. And if we have to extend the deadline, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U130	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U131	Does the chairman of the committee agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U132	Good question! Probably am. It also apparently turned out from my answers that my aim is also a report that is as good as possible, which would provide the basis for major changes in society, especially in the country's participatory policies. That is a purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U133	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have just stressed how many institutions are currently monitoring and analysing results. Do you think the cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has been sufficient in the past, or would the Ministry of Finance have been able to supervise procurement more effectively?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U135	We have learned so much that, in the past, these two ministries have not been in a real conflict with each other, but they have been debating a number of issues. Well, the issue of cooperation between ministries is still very topical, let's say so. This concerns not only the Port of Tallinn, but also cooperation in the wider sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U136	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U137	Thank you. Following this round of questions and answers, I learned that the representatives of the IRL and Reform Party are very grumpy about the extension of the deadline. Their purpose seems to be to focus on a narrow subject and quickly wrap it up. But you're going to answer that there's so much material that you need six extra weeks. As a result, I wondered: does the Committee of Inquiry only make proposals for the future in order to minimise the incidence of corruption, or is it still your aim to find political responsibility in the case of the Port of Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U138	One of our goals has been to analyse political responsibility, the role of politicians and to conclude what mistakes have been made. We cannot propose the future unless we are critical of old mistakes. It should kind of go in parallel: you see, here we think a very big mistake has been made, and it could be done in this way. There's been a mistake. This is the way it's gonna go. I think the report's gonna be something like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U139	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U140	Thank you, good Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! Here was about the efficiency and efficiency of the work, the usefulness and effectiveness of the final report. Why don't you give your assessment? You need to ask for an extension of the deadline for the Commission's final report. How effective do you think the Commission's work has been in the ten-ball system, for example? What grade do you give to the material you have gathered and the evidence that proves the widespread corruption in Tallinn Harbour and the possible involvement of one party?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U141	I wouldn't say that in a loud voice right now. What we've heard is, I think, extremely educational, let's just say that. I believe that the Members of the Commission acknowledge that, although we have a relatively clear view of the specific national policy of participation, we also have the errors that have been made in managing the implementation of this participatory policy. I wouldn't be giving grades to the Commission myself today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U142	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I would now like to ask for a presentation by Mr Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U143	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday 22 March. The chairman of the committee of inquiry, Artur Talvik, gave us an overview of what had taken place in the intervening period and why it was necessary to request us to extend the deadline. Questions came through today's Midsummer Day deadline, either by Midsummer Day, is ready or not ready. In fact, the content of the draft decision is a request to extend the deadline for the work of the Committee of Inquiry until 16 June 2016, rather than Midsummer Day. The recitals were broadly the same as those expressed today in the presentation by the committee chairman and in the answers to questions. Was there anything going on at the Commission meeting that has not yet been reflected today? One Member of the Commission wondered whether the persons invited to the Commission would be present or if there had been a problem with it. The chairman of the committee of inquiry replied that there were no problems and that everyone had been invited. The following procedural decisions were taken by the Commission: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 5 April (consensual decision), to close the first reading (consensus decision), to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 April 2016 (consensus decision) and to appoint Mr Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (also a consensual decision) as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U144	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U145	Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I very much hope that the Free Party will not soon go to the coalition. Otherwise, there is a high likelihood that we will not examine the results of this committee of inquiry to the end. We have seen this in earlier political practice. I also want to protect Arthur Talvik because he has done a very good job. When this committee of inquiry started, we had one starting point, and during the course of the work the material has come up. At first, we focused on very clear manifestations of corruption, but we have found new circumstances. It's relatively funny to link it to the question of efficiency. If the former regional minister of the IRL, Kiisler, is still doing so, I would ask how much ministerial work he had to carry out in order to implement administrative reform and ensure the development of local government. The result was not even zero, but even negative. So much for a comparable background. A number of factors have emerged in our work. If I should characterize the work of the Committee of Inquiry, then indeed, we have had two political forces that have tried to slow down the work of the Commission. A representative of both the Reform Party and the IRL has tried to ridicule the function of the Committee of Inquiry. Juhan Parts has also made it public. But there's nothing to be surprised about, it all corresponds to a political pattern that has long characterised the management of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. IRL has been a member of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Reform Party has been a member of the Supervisory Board of this state company. So they have co-responsibility. It is, of course, painful for these two political parties to be screened to the end and to bring out all political ties. They are trying to claim that there were two bad officials and no political transitions and no links were involved. There is no doubt that we are also arguing because there are two different approaches. One group of politicians is trying to talk about the fact that all we have to do is make proposals for the future to prevent corruption from happenings and problems. Unfortunately, they do not want to talk about political responsibility. We'll see. We need more time. Now, this isn't some sort of campaign work that we're going to have to deal with here with the precision of a second. That is the place of parliamentary decision-making: when we see that additional materials have come, additional arguments have arisen, we will give the Commission more time. Just to be more respectful of our citizens and to give a comprehensive and comprehensive overview of what has happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U146	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations. Let's finish the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 194. I will set the deadline for tabling 194 amendments, including 7 April at 5.15 p.m. We have discussed the second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U147	We are going to the last item on the agenda today, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, which was initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please present a speech chair for Riigikogu member Jaak Madison! Ladies and gentlemen, the President's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U148	Dear Riigikogu, we will continue to read 178 first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, which was initiated by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The waitress on behalf of the initiators has been found and the chairman's break is over. Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U149	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I'm alive, I'm fine. Ladies and gentlemen, More specifically, the bill. On 28 January of this year, members of the Conservative People's Party Group initiated a draft law according to which a minor amendment is made to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Paragraph 39 is supplemented by paragraph 5 in a very short and specific wording: 'The meetings of the Riigikogu Commission are recorded. ' The aim of the amendment is, of course, very simple: to bring Parliament closer to the people, to develop democracy in Estonia, and to show that we are not a closed rubber stamp, where there is nothing left in the past but very laconical protocols, where only the voting results are fixed, the names of those present and the items on the agenda. In recent years, this practice has also been the subject of a lively debate in society. Similarly, a few weeks ago, our group tabled amendments which unfortunately voted down the coalition ambassadors. We'll come with them to a new circle: what's bad, this again. I would like to emphasise here the opinion of Liia Hänn, a former member of the Constitutional Assembly, on this matter. He has considered the principle that there is nothing left to do with the recordings of sittings to be destroyed or even worse; the sessions are not recorded at all. We have outlined in the draft explanatory memorandum the purpose of the draft. One argument in favour of the amendment is certainly also prevention of potential disputes or very quick resolution. We have, for example, set a precedent recently in the Committee on Legal Affairs: the arguments of the two parties were diametrically different, and it was then very difficult to prove who was talking about what the Commission was talking about and what decisions were taken. If the hearing had been recorded, it wouldn't be a problem to interrogate the recording. Any further dispute in the media, as well as the pointless cost of time in the Riigikogu, would have been avoided. The second argument is that, with recordings, we give future generations and current historians the opportunity to examine the decisions made in the Riigikogu commission, the course of discussions, the arguments put forward. Unfortunately, we can't do that now. I would also like to comment immediately on an objection that came from the committee: the recordings of the plenary sessions of the Riigikogu cannot be heard either. But there will be a full verbatim report of the plenary sessions. Of course, one option would be for the coalition ambassadors to propose an amendment to also draft a verbatim from committee meetings. It would have the same value as a recording. But at least we've opened up and given everyone a chance to come along with it. This would certainly show a little better light for the current government if it supported this draft. At present, public opinion about the government, which I feel very strongly when I visit the whole of Estonia, is extremely negative, not to mention the general reputation of the Riigikogu. This would be a small but very effective step towards bringing the Riigikogu more faceless towards the people. When we talk about the costs involved, almost half of the committees already have the recording equipment. We have also been able to communicate with a state archive that has expressed its full willingness to preserve these recordings. That's not a problem for them. However, when we talk about sensitive information or state secrets that go through committees, it is possible to determine separately which recordings are public and which are restricted to access. Defining this in the draft would be no problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U150	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U151	Good manager! Good waitress! In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have been saying this all the time that, of course, recording and recording must be preserved, but it is like running into a wall with your head. I'm asking you, why do you think coalition ambassadors don't want to allow it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U152	Thank you for your question, my dear colleague. I think we're probably thinking the same thing that this answer might be. If there is a very sharp debate in the Commission on issues that may be directly in conflict with the Constitution, if we are talking about the conclusion of a border agreement, if we are talking about a very controversial cohabitation law that has divided society entirely for good reasons, then surely there is a great interest in preventing the debate from becoming public. In the course of such a decision-making process, someone may have expressed an opinion or attempted directly to push something through, knowing that he is violating the Constitution or going against public opinion or the interests of his own constituents. It is better not to produce evidence that might indicate certain people's actions in a very bad light.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U153	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! In order to get an idea of how it would make sense to proceed with this right bill in itself, I ask you this way: do you admit that the committees of the Riigikogu are different? Some of them are covered by state secrets in their activities and their sessions have not, as a rule, been recorded. But even if they are recorded, it must be viewed in a completely different way than what is happening in the ordinary committees. Are you prepared to clarify this in the draft if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U155	Good questioner, I'm sure we're ready for that. As one party likes to say, certain areas in Estonia need fine-tuning. The specific amendments to be tabled after the first reading have certainly been welcomed and welcomed. And the Riigikogu committees are undoubtedly different. The areas of work are different and certain committees are covered by information which national interests do not allow for public access. Consequently, it is certainly welcome for the Free Party Group to table an amendment stating how, in their opinion, it should determine which recordings are restricted to access. One example, of course, is the declaration of state secrecy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U156	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U157	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! This is certainly a small but important step. But suddenly this bill should look at the initiative as on a broader scale. It has been said for a long time that the parliamentary debate is limited. We can ask very little of the ministers about the time is limited, we are in very narrow frameworks. In modern democracies, however, it is very common for media publishers to be invited before Parliament. The British Lower House listens to media representatives for four to five hours, asking them a wide range of questions because they influence a large part of society, shaping decisions and people's opinions. In addition, we could also get more of the ministers to question and pressurize. Are you ready to include these amendments here too? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U158	Good questioner! Certainly, the issues you mentioned are very important both in parliamentary democracy and in the rule of law at all. I believe that our draft, which complements one of the sections of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Homes Act with a very specific objective, will eliminate at least one deficit. If we go to other issues, such as the number of questions to be asked to ministers and other speakers and the number of people in certain areas, it is already regulated by other sections of this law and should be amended either by means of amendments or by means of new draft laws. But this direction is undoubtedly correct, and I hope that it will find broad support in this Chamber, certainly from our group as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U159	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U160	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here's the question. Anyway, it's a nice thing to do, nothing negative. What status would these recordings and these verbatim records have? Can our independent media, who do not depend on anything at all, not be held responsible for anything at all, take these recordings and quote their information? However, do these recordings exclude the possibility of removing thoughts and sentences from the context, as they can disprove versions of media companies? After all, they are legally correct and you can use them to protect yourself from the lies of the media, for example. Would their statute be like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U161	Good questioner! This is not precisely regulated in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, as it has not been the specific purpose of the initiators. It is precisely the development of parliamentary democracy and the prevention of very large disputes that we have aimed at. However, this amendment would also be accompanied by other positive arguments, for example, the possibility of rejecting false claims that some media groups love to use against certain members of the Riigikogu or ministers. I believe that this could undoubtedly represent a certain added value.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U162	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! In the explanatory memorandum, and also in your story, the emphasis was mainly on recording. But I also heard that you've already made contact with the National Archives in preparation for the change. How thoroughly have you considered the archiving and eligibility of the recordings?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U164	Good questioner! It is true that our group's representatives have been in contact with the National Archives, which have expressed their readiness to hold the recordings. The duration of the recording should be maintained for 20 years, 30 years or 50 years, and storage conditions are the subject of a separate discussion. We need to negotiate with them what arrangements would be acceptable to them. This should be reflected in the amendments. In general, I think we have opened up this bill and launched a discussion. Certainly any constructive amendments are only welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U165	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U166	Thank you! Dear waitress, I was moved to ask Mr Ernits's question and your answer to it, as if the coalition ambassadors had something special to hide their unconstitutional behaviour, etc. I think it's a comic view. You have been in this Parliament for a year now, but the Estonian Parliament has been working for a much longer time. Coalitions have come and gone, oppositions in the same way. Of this, the existence or absence of recordings, or their necessity, does not depend on it. It is also certainly not a problem to conceal any kind of anti-constitutional activity that is stored in everything. After all, you yourself have also attended public speech meetings with quite questionable, even conflicting opinions from the point of view of the Constitution, and no one has done anything to you. Where do you even get such opinions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U167	Honourable questioner! As for your personal subjective opinion of someone's speeches, which you consider to be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, you are absolutely entitled to such an opinion. If you see any kind of breach of law or threat to the legal order of the Republic of Estonia, you can contact law enforcement authorities. However, as regards the suspicion that certain political parties or the representatives of certain political parties may wish not to be recorded with a view to concealing their actions which may violate the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, I note that something that is definitely classified, which cannot be controlled, always gives rise to suspicions, sometimes also unfounded. This is the easiest thing to avoid, precisely because it is possible to check ex-post what was said, why was said, what was the decision-making process and what decisions were finally made. This would automatically result in any kind of cast-off of suspicions. I believe that this would benefit everyone, both opposition parties and coalition parties. Hopefully that's an exhaustive answer for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U168	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U169	Thank you. I'll pick up where Märt Sults left off. That's one special nuance for EKRE. You should know better than anyone that the selective leaking of the recordings, which is now being favored, destroyed your own chairman's political career for the rest of his life. Mr Reiljan was precisely the victim of this, and I think that this threat should be felt particularly painfully by the EKRE. However, as Chairman of the National Library Council, I say that we also hold such works as the Koran, Mein Kampf, 'The protocols of the wise men of Zion', etc., but there is one additional condition: none of these authors can be drawn from the Estonian Express or eavesdropped in order to use archival material for political blackmail. I am in favour of maintaining archives now and in the future, but if you say, well, let them take one quote from here and another quote from there and keep it on their conscience, then I, as a person involved in memory institutions for 30 years, disagree with that. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U170	Honourable questioner! I will begin with the statement on your question that our party chairman was drawn up with some kind of statement. You also mentioned Mr Reiljan's name, but I would remind you that he has never been chairman of our party. Our party was created in April 2012 under the name of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and our first chairman was a completely different person. Mart Helme came after him. Let's get this sorted out. Now, second thing, should we be afraid of something? No, you don't! I think we have no reason to fear anything, because we have always tried to present the nature of Parliament's work to the public at large, to highlight the discussions, the debates that take place either in the hall or in the committees, to expand Estonian parliamentary democracy and bring it closer to the people, to break the reputation of the rubber stamp. As regards the withdrawal of quotations and the presentation in the media, it is undoubtedly all about which recordings are accessible to the public, including to media groups, and which are restricted to access. It's a topic of discussion. As I have said in reply to previous questions, all of this will certainly be regulated, and we are also waiting for you, Mr Gräzin, to propose amendments to the draft in order to determine exactly how long the recordings must be kept, which recordings are public, which can be accessed by the media, or all of them have limited access to, and must request special permission from the National Archives to receive recordings of the work of certain committees. But at least the initiative has been taken and the beginning of the discussion is already a very positive sign. After the first reading, we look forward to the amendments to the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U171	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U172	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm sorry, but what you're saying here is total demagoguery. I have been chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and we have always decided on matters by consensus. I remember that in the Committee on Social Affairs there was this representative of the Centre Party who wanted to record the meetings of the Commission, and we recorded all the sessions. Now I am in the Committee on Legal Affairs and, at first, no one wanted to record sessions. I was the one who said that from this day forward, we're recording sessions for a certain time. But you're talking about your party representatives all wanting to record, and you come up with a bill like this. You could first ask the members of your party whether or not they wanted to record sessions. There's no way you're talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U173	Honourable questioner! It is certainly worth recognising that you have begun to record your committee meetings. We commend you for that. As far as demagogy is concerned, the Social Democratic Party is certainly not quite the right party to claim that we are demagogating. Certain other drafts have been pushed through with very strong demagoguery. I don't think that's a proper accusation. As far as the draft recording is concerned, when I look at the list of initiators, which are all seven members of the Conservative People's Party, it can be concluded that we all support mandatory recording on committees. What has been going on in the Committee on Legal Affairs in communication between its members, unfortunately, I cannot comment on that because I am not a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is rather a matter of discussion between you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U174	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet waitress! With your draft, you make it compulsory to record Commission sittings and leave it to the committees to decide whether it refers to video recording or sound recording. Is there no danger that instead of avoiding disputes, we will simply create material for the following disputes, or video recording versus sound recording? As we know, video recording is more informative.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U176	Good questioner! This is certainly the case, because the video footage also shows people's emotions, all the activity in the Commission, which unfortunately is not reflected in the sound recording. In this way, video recording may be preferred if the Commission has a discussion on how to record sessions. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal leaves a choice. But as I said before, this bill certainly does not have to become the law in its original form. Here you can and maybe you need to make some adjustments and adjustments. However, it would certainly be a major step forward in the development of democracy in Estonia and in improving the reputation of the Riigikogu, if only sound recordings were made. Maybe leave out that moment of debate, although it certainly deserves to be discussed. Thank you for paying attention to this. I'm hoping to move on from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U177	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U178	I cannot accept that the archive and library are reputable projects. These are memory facilities. If memory is missing, it turns out Arnold Rüütel is wrong. In fact, he and your memories of party history don't fit together. But God forgot about it, then forgot about it. You touched on one really important issue: what are the documents with limited access and which are not. I can say that the National Library Council has discussed this, the archives have discussed it. Carry all you have in your bags of potatoes, including the notes, it's all an archive, and it's all a national memory, we'll take it all. Do not demand that we be able to catalog it in the next 30 years, but we will accept everything because it is our collective memory and it must be kept as such. We accept, but with one clause: we decide that for 10, 20, 30, 50 or 100 years this iron closet will go and the journalist of the Estonian Express will not be able to access it. Is this principle okay with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U179	Good questioner! I will start again from the beginning of your question. As for memory, as a young person, I consider my memory to be quite good. I'm reminding you of history. In 2012, the Estonian Folk League and the Estonian National Movement joined and a new party was formed in the new register of the statute, programme and new registration code: the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Going to the content of your question, I agree that, of course, our national memory also includes notes, newspapers and magazines and anything else that can be linked to the lives of our people. However, the categories of particular importance should be taken into account here. Some materials do not affect the future of the Estonian state and people and the decision-making processes of the authorities, while the other part is much more weighty and effective. Everything that takes place in the Riigikogu, the legislative authority body and the direct representation of the people, is of great importance to me personally when you ask me for my opinion, and its recording and archiving perhaps deserves even more attention than the archiving of other components of national memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U180	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U181	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I understand that the issues of legal continuity for your party have been quite important. At the moment, it seems that with the history of your party and its legal continuity, you have taken a bit of a blur and prefer to forget certain parts. I have before me the information system of the business register and I will see that, for example, the party membership of your groupmate Arno Silla is the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the date of membership 3 August 1994. On the same date, your Honorary Chair, Arnold Rüütel, has joined this party. Perhaps you would simply say very clearly, for the sake of the verbatim, whether your party is the legal successor of the Estonian People's Union or whether it is a completely new party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U182	It is, of course, a successor in law, since all members of the People's League were transferred to the list of Conservative People's Party. But what am I stressing? There was a new party, a broader and new programme, a new statute and a whole new direction. We have never hidden it that there was a People's Union before us, but there was a new program and a party with a new name, the cause of which was also the Estonian national movement. I don't really see any confusion here. And how does this issue relate to this draft? The question arises as to who is dealing with twilight and who is engaged in a conservative debate that would develop Estonian parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U183	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U184	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, please enlighten us how many Riigikogu committees are currently recording sessions!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U185	I myself currently belong to two committees, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs, but I do not have an overview of the other nine committees. However, it can be clarified, and I will respond to it in private later.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U186	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U187	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I would like to make a comment on not so much the questioners from the Socialist Group, but the bullies from the Socialist Group. I'll see what kind of sweet grin they're asking their spiteful questions while they're at the same time being Edgar Savisaar's creataurs and defectors to other political parties. It could be embarrassing! But the question is this: could there be an alternative to making recordings, such as setting up a specific and uniform protocol system in all committees?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U188	Honourable questioner! I will start again from the beginning of the question. As far as the social democrats are concerned, as I recall in 2009 and 2010, very many former people's allies ran over precisely the social democrats, and so far there are several former people's allies in this group. So if we're looking for the People's Union, we're looking at the Social Democrats! When it comes to bullying, when people feel some sort of frustration or unhealthy need nowhere to smile best, it is their personal problem and it does not bother me much. But I'm going back to recording committee meetings. It would certainly be a much more constructive situation if the minutes had written literally, who said what, what the decision-making process was. Perhaps as a parallel, we can bring a verbatim report of the plenary session of the Riigikogu, where we can read exactly what the whole process of passing the agenda was. It will remain a historical memory for our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U189	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U190	Thank you. Dear waitress, It is clear that the recordings of the work of the committees take an awful lot of space. It's enough from some hard drives and so on. Here's my question. Do you agree with me that the members of the current coalition parties oppose this proposal for one reason only: they do not want to leave for future generations, for decades to come, traces of the rather dubious decisions and actions of the committees, which can be described in one word, namely 'antirepresentation'?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U191	Honourable questioner, I'm sure it is. I have no doubt that there are several anti-Estonians among those sitting in this hall who serve someone other than the Estonian people. What, though, is their incentive to oppose the bill? There are several reasons for this. One reason I mentioned when I answered the questions at the beginning of the debate on the draft. Perhaps the statements of certain individuals and attempts to push through committees do not suffer much light. They especially want to keep them secret from the public. Another reason may be that, if the draft is initiated by the opposition party, whether it is for a noble or good purpose, we do not often see it reaching the final vote and getting the House's approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U192	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U193	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you for your firm attitude and open mind for also agreeing to extend the parliamentary debate by inviting media publishers, if necessary, and taking ministers more between confessions. I would like to say that do not take to heart this mockery of the social democrats or the political bullying. Many of them have changed political parties three or four times, they are still looking for their worldview, and they are under great pressure from the Reform Party. Take it easy!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U194	Honourable questioner, thank you for your support and praise. I think that Estonia, as a country with advanced information technology in the 21st century, should be a pioneer across Europe, bringing Parliament's work and democracy even closer to the people, even with such a very small legislative amendment. As far as the Social Democrats are concerned, for God's sake, if a person who should be very tolerant, tolerant and open is not against us, it does not bother us very much, but rather makes us smile.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U195	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U196	Thank you! I want to start with where the good waitress ended up: smiling. I admire the sensitivity of members of the Conservative People's Party to all kinds of critical issues when it comes to their ideas or drafts. In fact, I dare say, on the basis of my parliamentary practice, that no such spiteful company as you are in this Chamber has been seen before. You have all kinds of ethical views. Today, for example, one of you wrongly referred to the colour of our colleague's shirt and tie, and your party chairman was forced to come and apologize to the chairman of our group for his group colleague's speech. Such things don't really happen in this hall. And that's exactly what makes you so sensitive and equally spiteful. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U197	Honourable Asker, I did not understand what the meaning of your words was and how it fits into the current bill. If you have personal problems with our party and members of our group or our worldview, you are right to do so, but you do not have to include this subject in this debate by wasting time. You have never been a people's ally and a middle party, and you certainly know some of our party members very well. Maybe you have the impression that someone's worldview doesn't overlap with yours, and it certainly is. If we look at the ideology of the parties, unfortunately, or rather for me, we are like night and sun. At the same time, I think the difference is enriching. The difference also enriches party democracy, and we are very happy that we can be with you in the same hall and be part of such a distinct assembly of representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U198	Heimar Leng has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U199	Thank you. Here's the question. Do you agree with me that it is the opposition parties who are opposed to the former central parties and the people's allies that are particularly sensitive to your speeches? A previous speaker spoke here about the past and gave examples. I think the point is that your party is the first party to come to this Chamber with very clear and colourful speeches, with which many coalition parties cannot compete. That's the whole question, and that's what their tenderness and blushing is all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U200	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Of course, there are still people, and especially in a particular party, who are disturbed precisely by bold and straightforward statements, when there is no confusion, there is no breaking electoral promises and there is no basis for forceful passing through such laws, which are based on their electoral platform. I guess people like that get really tender. Gentle in itself, but it's not a bad thing. As an optimist, I believe that people will still learn from their mistakes and guide the useful direction of their tenderness, so that it serves the interests of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U201	Mihkel Iron, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U202	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I understand that the purpose of this draft, which you have also presented here, is, among other things, to enable the press and historians to identify the constitutional and, at all, illegal talk spoken in committees. On the basis of your own parliamentary experience, how much have you heard in committees against the law? When you have heard, have you also approached law enforcement agencies, as you suggested that a representative of the public do in answer to one question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U203	Our parliamentary experience is exactly the same, the honourable questioner. When we talk about the use of recordings, it has clearly emerged during this debate that one option is recordings, which may be available to historians, but not all recordings. Historians are not comparable to journalists in terms of using information. These are two separate areas of work, and historians will only use this material in 30 years' time. So our grandchildren will see it. But no doubt, if the recordings solve certain questions, it will only develop our democracy. These are all small pieces of one big puzzle that ultimately ensure the development of our country. As regards the constitutional treatment of committees, I will once again mention, as I have already done, the conclusion of a border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation. In this regard, the persons whom I know personally have brought a number of actions, but unfortunately, their treatment has not come very far in the judicial system. For some reason, the Chancellor of Justice's view is that everything is legal, although there is not much left of the Tartu Peace Treaty. However, I do not think this dispute will be over yet and will not end soon. However, it would be better to prevent situations where there may be doubts as to the accuracy of certain decisions than to risk a suspicious decision, hoping in good faith that nothing will happen. Better safe than sorry, as the proverb says.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U204	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U205	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I did not notice that for some reason you did not criticise colleagues Lenk and Kariladi because their questions had nothing to do with this draft. I therefore allow myself a question which may only indirectly concern the draft. One questioner used the words 'antiexistence' and 'antiestonian' in his question, which you joyfully repeated. Do you find such accusations in this dignified hall to be in line with parliamentary good practice? Perhaps you'd like to apologize.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U206	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I don't think I've violated good practice or moral standards and should apologize for something. For me personally, all decisions that violate the constitutional order of Estonia and the future of Estonia as a nation state, whether it be against the majority of the people, be it the Cohabitation Act, the Border Treaty or the violation of all good legal provisions in the work of the Riigikogu, which is to push certain decisions through with undemocratic means. Speaking of which, I don't think it's appropriate to talk about respectable society or moral standards.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U207	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U208	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet waitress! The round of questions has gone smoothly over to the round of speeches, but it would still come back to the draft. How will your draft resolve such a theoretical situation if, one week after the Commission's sitting, the result of the vote recorded in the minutes, who voted how, is contested? Is the recording being interrogated? It doesn't really change anything. It doesn't show who voted. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U209	Good questioner! However, the sound recording shows the form of the discussion. On this basis, it is very possible to derive who agreed and who disagreed with the members of the Commission. A dispute can very easily arise as to whether someone said something to someone or not and this affected the outcome of the vote or the whole decision-making process. Not all problems may be solved in the recording, but it may not be perfectly or philigranally reflected in all disputes. At the same time, however, I believe, and perhaps a good questioner, that this will help to clarify the matter when it comes to certain differences of opinion. I think it's already a step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U210	Okay. Jaak Madison, good waitress, I ask you to sit down for a moment! I have a procedural proposal for the Riigikogu. In particular, the Reform Party Group has proposed to extend the plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We need to vote on this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to extend the working time of the plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. Honourable Riigikogu! 48 members of the Riigikogu, against 14, with two abstentions, were in favour of this exciting proposal. Working hours have been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Questions continue for the waitress. Martin Helme, representative of the initiators of the bill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U211	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear waitress, The content of the debate on this draft has come very far from the draft itself. It's always nice to argue with the Sots, because they're, like, never right. We've been discussing this for over an hour. Have you understood what the substantive objections to our bill are? It is not an ideological law; it is a law of organisation. Have you understood why some delegates are so categorically opposed to the proposal to record the discussions of the committees in greater depth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U212	Honourable questioner! So far, the arguments put forward in the debate as to why the initiative should not be supported have, in principle, only revolved around questions of how long it will be stored, who could have access, what information is sensitive and has limited access, who will subsequently manage it. I do not think there have been any substantive arguments against the draft. However, we leave ideological issues, which in no way relate to our initiative, now, and we are only dealing with content. I think that substantive issues can be resolved easily and quickly by working together together and proposing amendments. As I understand it, several members of the Riigikogu are willing to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U213	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Since my name came through here, I want to say, first of all, that I started in the Estonian Rural People's Party and from there I was created in the Estonian People's Union as a result of the accession and also after accession in the EKRE. So I've stuck to my principles. I certainly have not jumped from one party to another, as some of the people in this Chamber have done, who did not manage the People's Union in their own time and ran away from there. There are plenty of veterans who have crossed the People's Union. But now I ask the waitress if the cooperation at the EKRE has worked out, perhaps because young and old are working together? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U215	Honourable questioner! I think that the broad debate is welcome and has a very developing effect on many members of the Riigikogu and their political groups. I certainly commend people who have been able to remain firm, have not changed neither color nor principles nor have jumped to another or third place. These people are very respectable and deserve special thanks. On our work, however, I think that the Conservative People's Party has worked in a very unanimous and very ascending line. It is a party that brings together people with very specific principles and a strong world view and does more for the benefit of the Estonian state and the people than parties made up of different colours.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U216	No further questions. The rapporteur is Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U217	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday 22 March 2016. Mr Madison, like today, gave an overview of the purpose of the bill, which I am not going to repeat for a long time here. The members of the committee expressed their views on the draft and also asked questions to the representative of the initiator. Among other things, they wanted to know what would happen to the recordings. The representative of the initiator replied that this should be discussed primarily with the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The problem would clearly be solved, as these are not large tapes that would create storage problems. Keeping the recordings for a certain period of time is no problem today. After the first reading of the draft and the discussion with the technical staff of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, it is possible to submit proposals on how recordings could be stored. One member of the committee noted that the recording of plenary sessions has also been discussed in the framework of the draft law amending the Rules of Procedure and Home Act of the Riigikogu 175. It turned out that recordings of plenary sessions were not made or intended to be made, but were merely transcripts. It was asked whether the draft proposal should logically be passed on to the Riigikogu plenary. For the sake of the tenogram, I say to the side that the plenary sessions of the Riigikogu are verbatimised and preserved. One member of the committee noted that according to the President of the Riigikogu, the state archives are not interested in recordings of plenary sessions. The representative of the initiator of the draft act found that recordings of Commission and plenary meetings were not quite comparable. The meetings of the Commission shall not be verbatimised; the minutes of the sittings shall be general and shall not reflect the course of the debate. The chairman of the committee noted that the draft 175 required the Commission's minutes to be comprehensive and to reflect the views of the speakers and the results of the vote in a personalised form. One Member of the Commission expressed the opinion that there was nothing wrong with recording Commission meetings, but that there were questions about how long the recordings would be kept. The solution previously proposed by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, so that the recordings could be classified for, for example, 75 years, caused great resentment and accusations that the Riigikogu wanted to classify its activities. The initiator of the draft act could also propose what will be passed on from the recordings, whether they are immediately disclosed or kept for professional use for a certain period of time, and how long it will be in that case. The answers to these questions should be found before the final vote on the draft. One Member of the Commission pointed out that the next question would be who would decide on the extent to which the recordings would be issued. The originator's representative considered these observations to be correct and relevant and should be regulated. Amendments can be tabled after the first reading of the draft. One member of the committee noted that unless even the plenary sessions of the Riigikogu are recorded and considered to be historical material, which is to say about the meetings of the committee. At the same time, he added that the committees to which he belonged had recorded the meetings. It has been possible to follow-up the sittings and to amend the minutes. He pointed out that since all of this is currently working and there are a number of issues that have not been resolved on the draft, he did not support the draft. The representative of the initiator of the draft act pointed out that meetings of the European Union Affairs Committee, for example, would not be recorded. One Member of the Commission noted that he would read the draft from the current wording that he could also record meetings on a mobile phone, but the draft did not regulate whether it should be destroyed or classified or what it should do with it. In the Commission, this debate was much shorter than today when the previous speaker answered the questions. What were the procedural decisions? It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 5 April (consensual decision), that the draft be rejected (by 6, 4 against, 0 abstentions) and that Mr Kalle Laane (consensus) be appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U218	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! This draft relates to another draft, which we just had at second reading, and where amendments were also proposed on how to store recordings and other supporting materials. I did not understand what Mr Nestor and Mr Nutt said at the time in the negotiations, but they said something that the preservation of the recordings could not be written into the bill because it needed 51 votes and it did not come together. I understand that all opposition parties have supported this principle. Can you tell me who are the coalition representatives who could support the storage of the recordings? Are there any? At the same time, I learned from both Nut and Nestor that they support it. Have you done any mathematics on this in the Commission that you decided to reject the draft with similar content again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U220	Thank you for your question. We didn't do math by name. But we have discussed the draft 175 at various levels at the level of the chairmen of the committees and at the level of the Riigikogu's board of directors. I believe that this is where the President of the Riigikogu and colleague Mart Nut came from.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U221	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U222	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! When discussing the second draft on the same subject referred to by my colleague, did the Commission address the issue raised by the Social Democrat Liia Hänni, an experienced Estonian politician? Is it only a question of organisation of the work of the Riigikogu, or is it also linked to the constitutional right of citizens to receive information about the activities of public authorities? By public authorities, I also mean the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U223	I answered a question about Liia Hänn's letter to Bill 175 at second reading right here on the remote. I believe that the majority in this hall is of the same opinion, that no person's constitutional rights are restricted when it comes to information that takes place in the Riigikogu. And all that happened during the last debate or during the answer to questions is a whole new 'cultural level' for me in this big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U224	No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U225	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to waste your time with a long speech; we have already discussed this very simple and elementary issue here for much longer than much of a very difficult problem. This proposal is not the first time in this Chamber. The exact same subject was also the subject of the debate during the previous Riigikogu, and then, by the way, you worked out who, for some inexplicable reason, are kicking up today and is hugely opposed to it. The President of the Riigikogu, who agrees today, also found that indeed, since the minutes still do not convey the exact content of the debate, it would be necessary to keep the recordings until the end of the composition so that they can be reviewed or listened to if necessary, and then to give them to the state archives. It has been argued here that it is as if the state archive does not want them and that they are difficult to preserve and what happens if there is some kind of state secret. These are actually the reasons we've been looking for. Clearly, state secrets will never be revealed to anyone. And those interested might have found out that in December the State Archives decided at their meeting that, of course, they were ready to accept everything. They are ready to preserve, they have technical readiness and all other possibilities. It's kind of funny trying to get behind these excuses. As far as recordings are concerned, I have also been interested in history and have written two books: one on the Estonian-Russian border treaty, the other on the biography of President Lennart Meri, for which I have needed accurate data, precise protocols. I have bounced into great problems because I have received the minutes of the Riigikogu committees, which contain only the names and decision of those present, but nothing more. And no matter how we state here that this protocol must contain as much as possible, if it is not a verbatim, then there will always be doubts, empty spaces, white spots. So recordings are going to be needed later to study history, not only to study history, but also to find out the truth. Mrs. Pikhof said that she has proposed to record the hearings. After all, this was due to the fact that the record was different from the actual speeches and did not reflect what was happening in the Commission. Members of the Riigikogu have even discussed whether the protocol should be addressed to law enforcement authorities for counterfeiting purposes. So this is an extremely serious matter, and it is very surprising how the political parties in one composition have supported this proposal, but then have changed their mind. Perhaps, as in previous discussions, the subject became much wider than the content of the draft. Maybe you should start developing some conspiracy theories, and you have to wonder, maybe somebody needs to hide something. I hope, however, that we do not have to go such a slippery path and that all parties will try to act in such a way that they have nothing to hide. I suggest once again that we consider why such a proposal has been made, why it is good, and vote in favour of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U226	Krista Aru on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U227	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! My talk, which I speak thanks to the consent of the other members of the Estonian Free Party Group, is certainly not so colourful and with so many world-view digressions. I would still be talking about this document, talking about recordings and why they need to be archived and preserved, why it is important to keep our own memory. Yes, the members of the Estonian Free Party Group are in favour of the meetings of the committees being recorded and the recordings being archived in our National Archives, which has excellent experience and skills. Yesterday I spoke to the state archivist and he assured me that the archive value was also given to the recordings that had been made before 2015. Plus, the transposition of all documents of the Riigikogu according to the deadline laid down in the Archives Act has started quite regularly. Friends! Recording and storing are not at all difficult. Nor do we need anyone to fear that we will be expressing different opinions in committees. Different opinions and disputes are part of democracy. If we fear them and descend to personal insult, this, excuse me, is a matter of our own inner ethics and culture. This issue is not prevented by recording, archiving or non-recording. I have heard that these recordings cannot be made, on the one hand, because it is too expensive, and, on the other hand, because some of our people will start to act a little theatrically on the committees, they start to appear. However, by not making the recordings, we do not reduce the theatricality. It is also not right that recording and archiving should be expensive. For information to committees that do not have a proper recording device: it costs from €30 to €100. And the National Archives have all the programs and other means available to archive the recordings and make the delicate materials unattainable for a certain time. The fact that there will be as much material as possible for future generations of us and our activities here in the Riigikogu, I am very interested in such an ignorant historical explorer. Right now, I'm wrestling, sorry, just because in August 1917 Jaan Tõnisson, Jüri Vilms and Artur Vallner had a fight. I read about it in the paper, and I realize that one of you insulted me. I read the Earth Council protocols. I understand differently. If I had to use those recordings right now, I could write down what really happened then. It's part of democracy. The more information there is, the better and stronger our democracy, and also our own Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U228	This is a first reading, and here the group has one speech. Which one is it now, Peter Ernits or March Sults? On behalf of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U229	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I must agree with the previous speaker, Krista Aruga, from the Free Party. Making and storing these recordings and archiving is a much wider problem. When someone here insults someone and quotes are pulled out of context, there is one thing. It is indeed a fear that the journalists of the Estonian Express, or someone else, will use these materials in the political struggle, and that is the reality. But the interests of history are more important. If these recordings are made and archived, they should of course not be available immediately or at least during the same Riigikogu. It is likely that they should be made public much later. But what is the situation now? How are the committees? I asked my colleague Madison how many sittings are currently being recorded at the Riigikogu Committee. He couldn't answer. I remember from the discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that perhaps only in three committees, so outnumbered. In fact, I understand that the sessions of Riigikogu committees take place behind closed doors, they act as sovereign kingdoms. Remember what happened in Belgium recently! And it turns out the Belgian police can't run a search after ten o'clock because the law won't allow it. In Estonia, although we are both part of the European Union, we should have more or less the same rules. Our committees seem to have the same principle: there are different kingdoms and different cultures. For example, during Mr Pikhof's time, the Committee on Social Affairs decided that we were going to record, and there was no record before that. If a vigilante demands, they'll be recorded. What do the protocols look like, whether or not verbatim reports or recordings are being made on the spot, in my opinion, should be resolved in the same way in all committees. The Centre Party is of the opinion that these recordings should be made and maintained on committees. I stress that this is very important in the interests of history. Liia Hänni, a person who has written to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to all of us, has been quoted here today. It is clear that recording what happens behind closed doors in Riigikogu committees is very important for the sake of the archives. These recordings may be regarded as archivals and should in any event be made from this point of view and should be supported by this draft. Let's make it easier! We should not think about whether someone is insulting or how recordings are used in political power struggles. Let us rise up and look further! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-05_U230	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading, which we have a duty to vote on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 178 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 46 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 26 against, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal was supported and 178 are excluded from the procedure. The sitting is adjourned. But the members of the support group of their own carers have a gathering near Helmen Hunt. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 1:17 p.m.
