ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister and Members of the Government! Let's start the briefing. Incoming check, please! 59 members of the Riigikogu registered for Question Time. The members of the government who participate in Question Time are Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants and Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal. Last day, ten members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask, so it is possible to submit one additional question to the respondents.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U2	The first question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Gentlemen, ministers! Perhaps you are aware that on Monday, the Foreign Minister Kaljurand responded to our question here at the remote board, from whom we examined why he appears in the Russian media with allegations that the Estonian state has no interest or desire to receive any compensation for the damage to the occupation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed rather astonishing views and brought before us, if I may say, the most submissive foreign policy stance I have ever seen in my life. He repeatedly pointed out that he had agreed with the Prime Minister that this was the position of Estonia. The Estonian state has confirmed its position in the 2004 Riigikogu decision and in the 2005 Government decision on determining occupation losses and making a claim. My question to the Prime Minister is whether these decisions do not matter to the current government or when it was decided differently at the level of the Riigikogu and the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U4	First of all, it is accurate to say that the current Government of the Republic has never discussed these matters in one way or the other. And I myself have the conviction that as long as I am the head of government, we will not raise these issues either. Instead of the requirements of the perspectiveless past, it is in the interests of the Estonian state and also in the interests of the Estonian people to look to the future with confidence and to deal with how to ensure the survival of Estonia's independence through the ages. And that is what the current government is working for. As far as relations with the Russian Federation are concerned, as early as 1992, national negotiations for agreements were launched. In 1994, it was remembered that historic arrangements were made to move troops behind the control line. It was then, I believe that most of the people in the hall will remember this absolute priority for the state, an essential prerequisite for the Estonian people to feel secure in their own country and for Estonia's independence to be restored. The same approach was confirmed in the border negotiations in 1996 when there was also no reclaim for post-Tartu Peace Treaty areas. At the time, I remembered that the interests of the Republic of Estonia were represented by the chairman of your party and by someone else well known to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U5	Martin Helme, the point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U6	Thank you. Foreign Minister Kaljurand also told us a long story about how negotiations have been conducted and what has been agreed there. This has nothing to do with it. The question was when the decision of the Riigikogu was changed or when the government decided not to comply with previous government decisions. It is clear that they have not been altered. You say you do not want to raise these issues. But I don't understand why you're going out and saying that our country doesn't want any compensation. Can't you just leave a choice to future governments? Because Russia now regards this as Estonia's abandonment. And you have also taken away the opportunity to ask us something in the future, if Estonia may have a more determined government with a stronger backbone, a more nationalistic government. Do you not see that you and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are damaging the interests of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U7	Both Minister of Foreign Affairs Kaljurand and I, as Prime Minister, stand firm for the interests of the Estonian state on all matters. As regards the non-relevance of the negotiations and agreements you have referred to, I do not agree with you. Both the baseline and the absence of territorial complaints were agreed at the time. Later governments have not changed the policy agreed at the time in principle. I think it is very right that we are not essentially going to change that. This also means that the Russian Federation, as they have admitted, cannot have any territorial claims to Estonia. That knowledge is important to all of us. And once again, as has been said, in these times of great importance to Estonia, the interests of the Estonian state were not represented by anyone other than the current chairman of your party, who was then the ambassador of the Republic of Estonia in Moscow. If I remember correctly, he's been given a lifelong ambassador's title for work in these troubled times. So the state of Estonia valued his services quite highly at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U8	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! It was interesting to hear your answer, but I had a bit of a grudge about your statement that this issue had not been discussed. I understand that these claims will not be made in the future. Okay, that's up to you. But I don't understand one thing. Mrs Kaljurand spoke in this Chamber that the government, as has been discussed, now I hear that it has not been discussed. This raised similar questions in the EKRE. In addition, Reinsalu, your government minister, along with colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania, has pursued its path and wanted to demand these compensations from Russia. Something funny seems like our foreign policy. Like a number of positions in one government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U10	I repeat: the Government of the Republic has not discussed this issue one way or the other, and as long as I am the head of the government, neither will it be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U12	Next, Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants will answer Ain Lutsep's question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The question is based on the press release of the Ministry of the Environment dated 5 January 2016 entitled "The unfair competition of miners under the label must be limited'. The first part of the question: How do the additions to the new law on the ground ensure that illegal mining activities are not carried out under the sign of the construction of ponds or other objects? What's the check? And the second part of the question: in the light of this new law, the problem has been brought to the attention, but how is it intended to facilitate the issuance of mining permits when it is a purposeful extraction? The current regime is rather complicated. Please, can we get an answer to these questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U14	Thanks! I can answer those questions. First, briefly in response to the first part of the question. In addition to the proposed amendment to the Land Underground Act, a number of steps have been taken before or, in fact, something is already possible. For example, according to the Building Code, the municipality may refuse to issue the building permit automatically and may grant it to the Environmental Board for coordination. The Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act require an ex-ante assessment of environmental impacts. The current ground law also actually allows the Environmental Board to exercise control, but we intend to amend the Ground Law in such a way that the competence of the Environmental Board to decide on the granting of an authorisation is further increased. Now the second part of the question that we are going to do. We intend to move all mining permits from the current distribution to the competence of the Environmental Board only. And if there has been any inconsistency here in the intervening years, I, as Minister, intend to stand by for procedures to be carried out within the deadline and, if the environment allows, for mining permits to be issued.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U15	Ain Lutsepp, clarification question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Can the issue of mining permits in an accelerated manner not lead to an over-mining of what to say?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U17	Thanks! All necessary procedures still need to be carried out, which means that when environmental impact is assessed, circumstances reviewed, contacts with local authorities, this must be done and will continue to be done. But as far as the officials' own work on the issue of a permit as such is concerned, I hope that this one institution will be able to run the workflow nicely and, if the permit can be issued, it will be granted. If it can't be given, then neither will the Environmental Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U18	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is this: how much are the Euro Directives governing the issue of mining licences and how much is our own space of mobility here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U20	Thanks! I am improvising now, but when it comes to issuing mining permits, it is primarily a matter of national regulation. However, the Euro Directives certainly concern waste from mining, for example. But, in my understanding, so far on the European side, we have had nothing to interfere with the use of land resources. However, everything that concerns the environmental impact assessment system, etc., is certainly the result of some kind of directives. But this is the natural, organic part of life in the environmental field.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U22	Next, a question for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U23	Dear Taavi in the garment! On Monday, in response to an inquiry in the Riigikogu, you said that the candidate for a Member of the European Court of Auditors is one of the issues that will need to be resolved in the near future. You said the government would solve this issue and find a dignified candidate. Yesterday you had a meeting with the president. There you were, and there were the chairmen of the other coalition parties. Did this meeting also mention the candidate for a Member of the European Court of Auditors and, if so, what recommendations did the President give you on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U24	Yesterday, when we met President Ilves, we spent most of our time focusing on the government's work plans in 2016. I am very pleased that the President expressed his strong support for the comprehensive reforms undertaken by the government union, both in terms of administrative reform, the reform of the capacity to work and the promotion of the country's innovation in the wider sense. This is very important and I am grateful to the President for this. We also talked, of course, about day politics, about drafts that are in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, and about the fact that there should not be a mistaken impression that the most important problem in society today is the individual question you have referred to, the appointment of a candidate to the Audit Chamber. On the contrary, it is a question that needs to be resolved in order to work, and I fully agree with the President on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U25	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U26	Dear Taavi in the garment! At least in words you claim that you are looking for a decent person to represent Estonia. Kersti Kaljulaid, a member of the European Court of Auditors, has been in the European Court of Auditors for more than ten years and there is a consensus that he has been competent and has performed his duties with dignity. But his mandate in the Court of Auditors ends in May this year. Has the government considered the option of Kersti Kaljulaid continuing his position?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U27	According to the law and the government's work regulations, the candidate must be submitted by the Minister of Finance. He has publicly stated that he wishes to be nominated for Juhan Parts. He has not formally submitted a candidate to the government yet and, therefore, neither at the Cabinet Meeting nor at the meeting has the government addressed this issue. We have talked about this with the chairmen of the political parties, but it is accurate to say that the government has not discussed this issue. If the Minister of Finance formally submits a candidate, it can also be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U28	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! In yesterday's TV3 telephone poll, 82% of those who called estimated that during your government, Estonia has reached stagnation. Do you not think that one of the reasons why people give you such an assessment is that you cannot even solve such a trivial issue as sending an adequate representative to the inspection room?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U30	If we decide what is happening in the world on the basis of this particular issue, as long as this issue is unresolved, we can indeed draw such rather far-reaching conclusions. Fortunately, you and I both know that this problem of influencing Estonia's life will certainly not reach the first hundred. If we look at the important influences of our lives, I don't think we should be ashamed. Estonia is one of the few NATO countries that can contribute more than 2% of GDP to its national defence. We should also not be ashamed that the taxes on payout were likely to increase faster than in any other European country last year. This means specifically an increase in wages and more people coming to work. We do not have to be ashamed that international studies show that Estonia is the country where it is the easiest to find work across Europe. There's a lot of things that are good. I do not think we will be able to sense such a general stagnation either, as we will see in the coming weeks that the government is presenting a draft administrative reform to Parliament. This topic has been in discussion in Estonia for decades, but has never been in parliamentary procedure. Nor does anyone think that the implementation of the most important social reform in the last 15 years, i.e. labour capacity reform, means stagnation. On the contrary, this is a very rapid development in one particular area. So I find it very short-sighted at all to have such a question set and to make an assessment on the surface of a particular small problem. Let's still look at society more broadly. There are very much more important issues in Estonia than the candidate for a member of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U32	The next question is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. According to the Estonian Institute of Economic Affairs, the economic situation has deteriorated since a year ago. Recently, the Prime Minister's statement in the media said that there is nothing wrong with just a small adjustment, and everything will be fine. Do you agree or do you have something to propose to stop this deterioration and switch to more successful management? Do you have anything more sudden in your back pocket?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U34	Thank you. There is nothing in the back pocket that is literally more sudden, but more indirectly, the government has come up with different plans and will of course continue to do so. All of these concern the development of the economic environment. Since this question had a slightly more philosophical content, I would say in answer that it is certainly not wrong to continue in the same direction if the direction is the right one. If we look at the Estonian economic environment as a whole, including the tax environment as a whole, different external evaluators have also considered it progressive. This is an environment in which business can be carried out, where the tax system is understandable and all other options are also simple. At the same time, we want to improve our economic environment. But you know that the country doesn't run the economy from anywhere behind the table where it pushes the button, and in some areas the economy is about to grow. One project that we have also introduced to the public and which has been briefly discussed here is the same zero bureaucracy project, which aims to reduce reporting in business. This will provide an opportunity to deal more easily with entrepreneurship and reduce the administrative burden. More than 250 proposals have already come from business organisations and we will discuss them in February. The second part of this project is a plan implemented by the Tax Administration under the direction of Marek Helmi. That's what we've been talking about. The idea is that it would be easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to communicate with the tax administration and to deal with tax matters. The simplest way to describe it is to compare it with the preparation of a pre-filled individual tax return. So what we're doing is a lot. I am also thinking about the same issues of associations that we dealt with here a few days ago, which came up with a question from your group. I think that the Estonian economy in general is on the right, on the right, and its aim is as free as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U35	Mr Põldaru, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. How do you view the possibility of granting exemptions to energy-intensive production by introducing smaller electricity excises for the sector? And couldn't renewable energy charges be reduced in certain cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U37	There's two sides. I say right away that we are analysing this problem in the Green Paper on Industrial Policy in Estonia at large. By the middle of this spring, the Ministry will be able to use these scales. Repeat, there are two sides. One way is to reduce certain burdens on energy-intensive businesses. However, since energy costs are largely derived from networks and these charges are largely cost-based, we must realise that these costs must be paid by the rest of the consumers. Well, we're gonna have to look for an optimal solution. I would prefer to do this in the process of working through this same industrial policy and not to shoot at the hip right now, saying that we are doing one or the other. Ultimately, when you grant incentives to large companies, there will be new jobs that have their advantages, but on the other hand, the small consumer will have to pay a little more. We can discuss this balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U38	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U39	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The economic textbooks clearly state that taxes are not so much necessary to fill budget gaps as to boost the economy. When we look at Estonia's tax policy, we see how excise duties have been raised in a row. Petrol and diesel are rising in February, natural gas is rising in January, we have high electricity excise duties, fines have multiplied and state fees are also rising. Do you not feel that all this tax policy does not support economic growth? Economic growth is clearly stagnating.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U40	We probably haven't read the same economic textbooks. There is nothing to do; in general, taxes are collected mainly with the aim of supporting joint action and implementing a common budget, including funding education, defence, the social sphere, etc., which is certainly as important to you as to the right. In general, excise duties should reduce certain types of consumption and encourage consumers to behave more environmentally friendly and healthier. That is the case in other countries. Looking at the prices you mentioned, Estonia's prices have fallen now, as world prices are down. When asked how Estonia's tax policy supports entrepreneurship, it has not been long since Estonia's tax policy was considered one of the best in the world. It is possible to start entrepreneurship and to reinvest in entrepreneurship completely freely, without worrying about missing anything in the meantime. So in that sense, we're probably in a different information room. The Estonian tax system has certainly been assessed as very flexible. This does not mean, however, that if there are good ideas on how to improve the environment for businesses, we should not listen to these ideas. I'm sure we will. I'm always talking to business organisations. One example of innovation is our plan to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to pay taxes, so that it is easier for people to become entrepreneurs, so that there is less concern about accounting, various business practices, bureaucracy. That's what I said before.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U41	I will conclude on this issue. Good Peter Ernits! My heart's dripping, so I'm gonna have to leave a vigilante at all times without the opportunity to ask a specific question. Perhaps a member of the Riigikogu, who has a long standing, will give you advice on what you need to do to make sure you can ask your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U42	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! One of the major structural problems in Estonia is that wage growth in the public sector has been more rapid for years than in the private sector. Some time ago, government labour costs increased by as much as 10% and this trend continues. But the question is this. What package of measures will the government implement to boost the private sector, on the one hand, and to deter the public sector decisively, on the other? Because if you keep going like this, it really is stagnation. It's a big stagnation sign.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U44	I am pleased that I can disagree on this issue. I do not think that wage increases in Estonia are only bad and that one of Europe's fastest wage increases should be called stagnation or whatever. This is your use of words. I think that the people of Estonia will be able to appreciate this rather than increase income in our country. In my opinion, we should work even harder in the future to increase productivity so that Estonia's exports grow, because then the sustainable foundation of wage growth will also be guaranteed. In any case, I see that people's incomes are increasing, certainly positive. Of course, I would like further efforts to be made to ensure that wage growth is primarily based on productivity growth. Now for the public sector wages. Your memory is not quite accurate when you say that, for several years in a row, wage growth in the public sector has been faster. Couple of years, but before that, it was actually quite the opposite. Public sector wages fell faster in some sectors, but later, when the crisis recovered, some of them grew more slowly. As a result, public sector wages fell behind those of the private sector in comparable areas. I can say this with absolute certainty, because the government's cabinet meetings have given in-depth reviews of the salaries of the various sectors each year. But you are really right when you say that in the last few years, wage growth in the public sector has been somewhat faster. In certain sectors, this has been a fully informed choice. For example, in the case of teachers, we want their wages to increase faster than average in the future. However, in some sectors this has come through internal reforms. For example, the Police and Border Guard Board did not achieve this by means of an additional budget, but by means of internal reforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U45	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister! You still did not answer my question about what this package of measures is. When I talk about stagnation, I mean that the private sector is so far behind the public sector. What are we going to do with this public sector? There has been talk of a redundancy plan, which we do not think is very methodical. What will a specific government do to limit any duplication and pseudo-tasks in the public sector? The Auditor General gave us very colourful examples of how the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs kept a page-by-page correspondence in order to repair the Estonian embassy in Moscow. It contained very absurd examples. I hope you are aware of this and will give an assessment. What do we do to keep things like this from happening again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U47	You have so many long and very different questions that forgive me if it takes several answers to answer them all. But let's start with your argument that the private sector is long behind the public sector in terms of wage growth. Let's see the numbers. In the private sector, wages grew by 6.3% or 282 million euros in the year that ended. I offer you a challenge, Mr. Herkel. Find one country across the European Union where wage growth was faster than in Estonia. I would rather say that, if there was any concern about the private sector, there should be concern that productivity growth has not been at the same rate as wage growth. This is where the problem should be seen. You say that the difference between wage growth in the private sector and in the public sector is very large, but that is simply not true. In Estonia as a whole, the sum of all wages has increased by 6,5%. True, part of this growth has been achieved by the entry of new people into employment, which is also a positive phenomenon. Wage growth in the private sector was 6.3%, i.e. 0.2% lower. And I am saying that it is very likely that this will be the fastest wage growth in Europe as a whole. I believe that our common aspirations must be aimed at ensuring that wage growth can continue at this rate, and that, as I said, a favourable environment for exports and productivity growth is needed. In answer to your second question, what the state is planning to do in order to ensure that the public sector does not become a greater burden, I dare say that we have cut the number of people who are relatively unprecedentedly paid by the state, at least during the crisis. And we have cut this figure further, and it is relatively unprecedented that the number of public-paid workers will be systematically reduced during economic growth. I have heard criticism that this is, in many Members' view, a too ambitious plan. We're still sticking to the plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U48	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U49	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! One part of the state reform is certainly the administrative reform that the government is actively planning. I have such a specific question and I also expect a specific answer to it. It is known that the municipal parents and mayors who lose their jobs in connection with the merger of local governments will be allowed to receive compensation. Which budget line will these costs be covered from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U50	The leader of your party has just stated that there is nothing being dealt with in Estonia; there is a stagnation in the country. Unlike him, you rightly pointed out that there was a very serious fundamental reform, an administrative reform. It needs commitment from both government and local authorities throughout 2016. It is also true that a specific measure is intended to double the accession grant compared to the rates still in force and that, as part of this accession grant, it is indeed intended to compensate the local government leaders whose post after the reform is lost. This money comes from the state budget, where it is in the line of accession grants contained in the instruments for administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U52	The next question is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In your profession, you must definitely know what is happening in Ida-Virumaa. In the town of Kohtla-Järve, water in the water pipes of about ten houses has been frozen and the pipes have broken. People have been forced to leave their homes and leave their property unattended. This is because one company allows itself to shut down entire houses from the heating system, without any judgment. And it could be four degrees cold in the room. This issue has been discussed earlier by the Estonian Parliament and has even changed the law. However, the company, namely VKG Heat, with an annual profit of EUR 19 million, can leave people without heat for the entire heating period. Hence my question: why is there no obligation for heat suppliers to ensure the heating of houses during the winter period? Why do monopolists have the right not only to shut off the debtors but the entire house's apartments from the heating and electricity system even without a court ruling?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U54	As you said, this issue has been discussed in Parliament before. According to memory, even when these rules came into being, it was established what time it would be possible to shut off debtors. But as you probably know, the entire housing company or the house route will be at one of the connection points. That's why the house as a whole is shut down. Warm manufacturer cannot go to every door to do this separately, it is not possible to build a house. The period of notice of the interruption is 30 days during the non-heat period, 90 days during the winter period. Such a period of notice is indeed laid down. If you want to change anything about these rules, you can discuss it. Then there must be a concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U55	Olga Ivanova, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U56	So I have a question why only Kohtla-Järve and VKG Heat have created such a problem. We have not heard that such things have happened in Valga or elsewhere in South Estonia. And why was so much lobbying in favour of the monopolists that the law included a provision allowing the company to submit one invoice to the whole cooperative because the house has one entry point? Why does the company not have to deal with its customers separately, i.e. each apartment separately? Why does a building management company have to go to court to prove debts, but for example VKG Heat does not apply? They simply turned the house off the grid in May or July last year and did not turn it on even in winter when it was 25 degrees cold.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U57	It's like there's a lot of things together now. If you're asking if the rules are the same everywhere, then of course the rules are the same everywhere. They must be the same, no doubt about it. The deadlines for prior notification are a matter of its own. As far as I can remember, they were made longer in Parliament after the debate, but we can look at that later, I do not know how to say it. The question in such cases is probably primarily long-term debt; the housing company cannot pay the debt. However, it is already the case that, when some goods are delivered, there must finally be some deadlines for the goods to be paid for. The law provides that the joiner is a housing company. If we are going to change this and make it so that, in the future, more generally in energy, the direction is such that each end-user is responsible for its own consumption, then it is a matter of its own. Perhaps one day it will be possible to discuss all of this separately, but there is currently a procedure for the building management company to deal with its debtors. Actually, that's part of his job.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U58	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U59	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Asks Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U60	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, On Monday, Marina Kaljurand, Minister of Foreign Affairs, answered a personal question about her solo performance on the Russian news portal Interfax on 6 December 2015, where she expressed, as you have claimed, her personal opinion that Estonia does not have compensation claims for occupation on the Russian Federation. As we know, the last official position is the result of the decision of the Riigikogu of 9 June 2004, which imposed the obligation on the Government of the Republic to proceed with the determination of these losses and the possible filing of a claim. It was completed on 14 January 2005. So, is it your customary working order that you have anarchy in government, a lack of leadership, so one minister, the Minister of Justice, will continue to operate according to the legal order and according to the proposed work programme, while the Minister of Foreign Affairs alone will do solos and perform in the Russian media as a Russian influence agent?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U61	These vile insults and accusations that you are attacking the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Estonia in this Chamber for the second time this week do not embarrass the attacker, but rather the attacker. In my opinion, Marina Kaljurand is a very good foreign minister, who represents Estonia's interests on every issue and does so as well as he can. He has also represented Estonia's interests in previous trades, and on several occasions he has represented Estonia's interests at very difficult moments. As regards the government's position on possible claims for damages, I repeat what has been said in response to your benchmate. As long as I am the head of government, we are not going to raise these issues. If any member of the government has a different opinion, that is his personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U62	Jaak Madison, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U63	Thank you. Good minister! We are truly convinced of the capacity of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and of the entire government, which concerns both shipguards in India and individual performances on behalf of the Government of the Republic, for which there is no mandate or mandate. These are not insults, but very sad facts. And we have every reason to express our dissatisfaction and frustration when the government is acting alone, for which it does not have a mandate. At the same time, the Minister of Justice will follow the work programme put in place by the previous governments, which you have not cancelled. You have not taken any decisions on this, and the fact that you do not deal with this issue does not give you or the Minister of Foreign Affairs any right to make personal statements on behalf of the Republic. Here's the question. How long will you continue this attitude and the rhetoric of a government that plays cards in the hands of the Russian Federation and creates a reasonable suspicion that someone has been paid off or serves the interests of an External Action Service?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U64	I read the verbatim report of the hearings of the Riigikogu on Monday and found that the statements made by both you and some of your party partners were very few, but there were very many indecent insults and accusations. That's my assessment of it. I believe that all Members of Parliament in this Chamber, but of course the government must also respect one another and refrain from getting vulgar and throwing personal insults at one another. After reading this verbatim report, I feel that I have to protect the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this issue. You did him too badly. As far as the government's agenda is concerned, we will establish our own work plan. There are a number of steps in our work plan that will help ensure the security of Estonia and ensure that Estonia's statehood lasts through the ages. We work on this every day. But in my opinion, the unproven claims for damages, foreign policy struggles, we really don't have a job plan, and we don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U65	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U66	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The fact is, in your opinion, a very good foreign minister announced that the territories of Petseri and Narva have not been occupied. In 2002, the Riigikogu adopted a statement on "The Crimes of the Occupational regime in Estonia," condemning the occupation, annexation and crimes of the occupation regime in Estonia. The organisations of the Communist regime that committed them were declared criminal and stressed that crimes against humanity were timeless. The requirements for compensation for occupation losses are also based on this. If you and the Minister of Foreign Affairs now make it clear that part of Estonia's territory has not been occupied and the claims for the damage to occupation are not to be made, it follows that part of Estonia's territory has been subjected to genocide against the Estonian people, crimes against humanity and war crimes, the transfer of illegal property...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U67	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U68	... the destruction and deportation of folk culture monuments has never occurred. By what right and why have you taken over the point of view, and which of these results, in addition to the border agreement representing the interests of Russia, do we still have to look forward to?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U69	That historical description of yours was anything but understandable. First of all, about the Soviet occupation. The fact that the Soviet Union occupied Estonia for several decades is a firm fact. The fact that almost every one of us has been deported, and perhaps someone who was killed, is also a fact. Every day I go to Stenbock's house for a government hearing or my office, the portraits of my predecessors remind me of that fact. Almost all my predecessors from the previous Republic of Estonia were either executed or repressed by the Soviet occupation power. So you don't have to remind me. If you ask whether a part of the Republic of Estonia has been occupied today, of course not. The Republic of Estonia is independent and independent in all its territorial integrity, the beauty of its entire country. If you claim that the government should start to reverse the agreements concluded in the 1990s, at which the President of your political party was the representative of the Estonian state, I believe that these attempts are inconclusive. I do not think that we should now challenge the line agreed decades ago. Just as in Russia there is no need to take one step on the territory of Estonia, just as in Russia there should not be any complaints about the territory of Estonia, so we should not have territorial complaints to Russia. We've agreed on the location of the border a long time ago. Let's build this border once and for all!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U70	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U71	Artur Talvik asks Prime Minister Taavi of the Clothes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U72	Good Prime Minister! It is clear that the Prime Minister must fly a lot because of his work, but unlike his predecessor, you have also used exclusive private aircraft services, which are considerably more expensive than scheduled flights. How have you come to such a decision? Do you not trust the new Nordic Aviation Group and how much such private aircraft flights have cost the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U73	During this little less than two years, when I have been the head of government, I have had over 50 foreign missions, of which six times the State Chancellery has ordered a rental plane. Every time, it is because otherwise Estonia would have stayed away from making some important decisions. We're currently preparing an answer to your written question and it's all written down. For example, when President Obama visited Estonia, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, I had the honour of sending him on a plane. However, as a result of this take-off, the route of my choice was compromised to the same destination we both had to go to, that is, the Wales Summit, and we were therefore forced to order a rental plane with a more flexible schedule. I believe that every time the Head of Government, or also the President, has to reach a meeting that is very important for Estonia, such as a European Council meeting or a NATO summit, we must ensure that we are, in any case, in the right place at the right time. I'm sure you agree with me that the best possible means of transport must be used in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U74	Arthur Talvik, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U75	Good Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. But you didn't tell me how much these flights cost. I would also like to point out that some flights have been ordered from a company owned by your party partner Ken Koort. Do you not see this as a conflict of interest or, let's say, an inappropriate advantage?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U76	The Estonian state budget has paid for such a flight once last year. I'm now saying about 2,000 euros per person. This was the same flight as Tallinn was in Tallinn. Detailed written information about all other flights will be sent to you. At the same time, it is also important to know that the European Union will cover the costs of the participation of the Prime Minister and his delegation in the European Council. These amounts have not been paid from the budget of the Estonian state. These payments have been made by the State Chancellery, but they have received money back from the European Union. All exact figures are naturally available and you will receive them in writing. As for ordering airplanes or airline tickets, as well as hotel reservations, these are things that the Prime Minister himself should not deal with. And I really don't. I take note of the fact that the competent people have made a travel schedule, and I trust them that it is as sustainable as possible for my time and allows to represent Estonia's interests. Each time specific tickets are obtained, of course, it is necessary to ensure that several offers are made, and so has been done, as far as I am aware. The assistance of professional travel agents should always be used, whenever possible. That's what we got good professionals for. They have already helped other prime ministers in the past, and they will probably help in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U77	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U78	You do not, of course, have to deal with your tickets and hotels yourself, but you certainly need to ensure that there is no doubt about corruption or special advantages. However, we understand that you are a very determined and determined Prime Minister, who must be involved in making decisions. If I remember correctly, the European Council has a vote of about 1%. Tell us what have been the important decisions you have certainly had to make! As far as I know, Estonia has never disputed any decision in Brussels. Perhaps it would be cheaper and easier to send orders there, not to the Prime Minister, but to someone on the lower level and without a private plane?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U79	There can be no further from the truth. I would argue that at the Wales Summit, where we are one of the 28 NATO Member States, Estonia's voice certainly sounded louder than it would have been expected. I am thinking not only of my own voice, but also of Sven Mikser and the Foreign Minister, Urmas Paet, who served as Minister of Defence at the time. The Commander of the Defence Forces was also there. I am absolutely sure that in the future, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia must always be present at NATO summits and European Council meetings, not only, but also speak up and express Estonia's views. You say that in order to save air fare, Estonia should be excluded from international decisions. In my opinion, this is a stupid position and also an exceptionally anti-Estonian one. At the summit in Wales, I remind you, it was agreed that the presence of the allies must be guaranteed in Estonia and in our immediate vicinity. There, behind these very tables, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Commander of the Defence Forces agreed on all the relevant details. If we weren't there, the result wouldn't have been this way. At the meetings of the Council, however, it is possible for Estonia, without exception, to not only shape and influence general positions, but also to informally discuss one subject or another with any other leader in the European Union and to clarify Estonia's views. I can give not only one example from last summer, but a number of examples that the original draft decision was amended and turned into exactly what Estonia wanted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U80	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U81	Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants now answers the question of Rein Ratas. Please, Rein Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U82	Mr. Minister for the Environment! Waste production in Estonia has increased since 2003. In the European Union, after Bulgaria and Finland, we are third in terms of the amount of waste generated per capita. We are increasing waste recovery. Five years ago, it reached 55% due to the sudden leap in oil shale waste recovery. What is the state of recovery of waste as secondary raw materials now and the direction for tomorrow? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U83	Thanks, that's a great question! I am pleased to report to you that we are making progress on the recovery of municipal waste. At the same time, the bad side is that it accounts for only 3% of the total waste stream in Estonia. However, as far as municipal waste is concerned, if we have people or companies who want to come up with a plan to build some sort of dump, they are on the wrong path. Thanks to Iru's waste incineration plant, municipal waste recovery is well-off and only 6% of these waste will be disposed of. But when we talk about the recycling of municipal waste, we have to admit that the situation is worrying. This figure is currently around 30%. It is in this quantity that we have material sorted by glass, paper, plastic, and metal, and all of this can be produced. So there is no reason to rejoice. By 2020, we must reach 50%, and therefore no step that could take us beyond this goal is welcome. Organised waste transport and the involvement of local authorities in this process are essential. As far as mining waste is concerned, there is certainly still concern about this. What have we done? An example is the recent regulation on the cessation of waste. Fine oil shale may, in fact, be separated from the herb and obtained from it a high-quality so-called second raw material, but since the volumes are so large, we do not yet have a final solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U84	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister for the Environment! According to § 6 of the Sustainable Development Act, the use of non-renewable natural resources must be based on the objective of replacing it with waste or secondary raw materials. Therefore, Eurostat also addresses waste treatment data in the Sustainable Development Indicators Block and not in the Environmental Block. To what extent has the Estonian industry considered waste as a secondary raw material in its innovation process, and how does your ministry cooperate with the Ministry of Economic Affairs in this regard? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U86	Thanks! The national waste sector is organised and managed by the Ministry of the Environment. Above all, it is a matter of the Packaging Act. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has been involved in these processes in the drafting of legislation, saying its word, as is the case within the framework of coordination. Have there been any special initiatives? The answer is not to my knowledge. As far as the contribution of industry to this process is concerned, in my opinion, it is continuous in cooperation with people in the field of our ministry's administration. However, when it comes to solutions that will enable large waste to be managed in the near future, there are still no significant happy messages here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U87	Honourable Riigikogu and honourable members of the government! It's so late I can't ask or answer anymore. Question Time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U88	Honourable Riigikogu! The first Wednesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu will begin. First of all, we have the good people who want to hand over drafts or enquiries. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U89	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am handing over a draft to amend the President's rights to the law. There is only one amendment that we will make to the President's wife's benefits after the end of the President's term of office. I shall read it out: 'The spouse of the President shall have the right to the benefits referred to in paragraph 2 of this section in accordance with the time of the President's being married during his or her term of office. The amount of the fee shall be determined by dividing the days in office of the President during the President's term of office by the days in which the President is to be married. ' Right now we have a situation where Evelin Ilves was married to President Ilves for nine years, and according to the law, after the end of the President's term of office, the new husband is next to the president for a few months, but he is about to receive 20% of the president's salary, or about EUR 1000 per month. We believe that this is unfair and that this change would eliminate this injustice. I'll tell you again that I've never been a special fan of Evelin Ilves, but she's been suffering for nine years from a humorous and booze-breathing husband, and that's not how she should be treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U90	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U91	Mr. Chairman! Honourable ambassadors! In the briefing that just ended, we had a dialogue with the Prime Minister on the fact that the public sector is passing by the private sector with its wages and that it is necessary to clean up the public sector after the administrative-territorial reform. The Prime Minister did not answer much of our questions, and the answer to one additional question was probably also completely misleading. Fearing this, the delegates Herkel, Adams, Lutsepp, Ammas, Aru, Talvik, and the Hatter have prepared an inquiry into several questions. We want to know more about the public redundancy plan and wage growth, we are bringing very odd examples of duplication and pseudo-tasks, and we are finally asking how progress is being made on this coalition agreement clause, which provides for an increase in the Prime Minister's role in resolving cooperation problems. Indeed, the problems of cooperation have arisen in the right way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U92	An inquiry has been made to whom?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U93	The inquiry has been submitted to Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. I referred to the Prime Minister earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U94	Thank you. March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U95	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! Our inquiry has been submitted to the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. Last year, there was public auditing in schools, which identified a large number of violations, including the collection of hidden tuition fees. Mr Karis spoke before the House and spoke about the content of the infringements, but there was no movement from the Ministry of Education and Research. One of the main threats that arises is that access to education in schools is not equal and is not guaranteed by the principle of equal treatment for students. Treatment will depend on how much money someone pays to the school. At the same time, it is not necessary to pay this money through non-profit institutions and foundations if there is an article entitled 'Contributions' in the budget of schools. However, since they do not want to pay all state taxes, this is done through foundations and non-profit institutions, but then this money is no longer part of the school budget. So basically, the school income, or donation article, is empty. This leads to our questions to the Minister of Education. 'What has the Ministry of Education and Research done with the report, which states that financial discipline violates school leaders? Explain the requalification of schools involved in infringements as one possible solution from 01.01.2016 for private schools and the effects of the Private School Act on these schools from 01.09.2016. The Ministry of Education and Research cannot claim that these are not private school characteristics, although tuition fees were collected in the form of 'voluntary donations' and 'hiddenly'. Has Auditor General Alar Karis given instructions to the Ministry of Education and Research, referring to the schools mentioned above, and, if not, has the Ministry of Education and Research asked the Auditor General for instructions on the organisation of the further work of the Ministry with the schools mentioned above, based on the irregularities revealed in the audit? ' And there are some other questions that we expect answers from the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U96	One draft and two requests for information shall be forwarded to the work on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Requesting presence check! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present and 12 are elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U97	Let's start work, let's go to today's agenda: First reading of the draft law amending the railway law initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur on behalf of the initiator is Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U98	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The development of the draft law amending the Railway Act is due to the need to transpose into Estonian law a directive of the European Union establishing a single European railway area. Some changes are made to the need to clarify the provisions relating to the Train Drivers Directive. In particular, the proposal affects railway undertakings and the main objectives of the directive to be transposed are to improve non-discriminatory access to service facilities, to make the rail market more transparent, to enhance cooperation in order to facilitate international rail transport, to stimulate sound and sustainable financing and to increase the competence of the regulatory authority, namely the Competition Authority. In order to achieve these objectives, undertakings must, if necessary, amend their structures in order to separate the operation of a service facility from other activities. The infrastructure manager shall provide precise information on the conditions of use of the infrastructure in the network statement. In order to ensure the sustainability of public railway infrastructure, the State is obliged to ensure that the revenues and costs of the infrastructure manager are balanced over a five-year period, and also to ensure that the undertaking is able to develop the infrastructure in accordance with agreements concluded with the State. If necessary, the State must contribute financially to the infrastructure manager. In 2015, EUR 5 million of economic support was granted to AS to ensure the road safety of Estonian Railways, which is allowed under the Directive and is not considered State aid. The aim of the provision was to ensure the capacity of the railway infrastructure and to improve safety at the level crossings of pedestrians and vehicles. The additional money can be used to renovate 18 level crossings and 29 level crossings, of which 14 additional barriers will be installed. In total, safety at 60 level crossings will be improved by means of barriers, pipe barriers and warning signs. In addition to improving safety, the purpose of the additional financing is to keep trains at speeds of 120 kilometres per hour at least 80% of the total length of the main roads. Infrastructure managers are likely to need to be supported over a longer period than the state budget, as freight transport volumes are currently decreasing and are not expected to increase. The amendment allows the infrastructure manager to determine the charges for the use of the infrastructure in the future if it is independent, i.e. does not carry out rail transport. The independence of the company is assessed by the Competition Authority and the fee is currently determined by the Technical Surveillance Authority. The requirements for periodic intermediate checking of train drivers shall be specified. In future, language proficiency checks must be carried out if the language specified by the infrastructure manager for use on the railway is not the native language of the person. Language skills are essential for the train driver and dispatcher to understand each other, otherwise dangerous situations may arise as a result of misunderstandings. In practice, both Estonian and Russian are used, so additional language checks will not result in a change. In addition, it is specified what will be done by the Technical Surveillance Authority if it considers that the driver is not in accordance with the requirements. The authority of the other country issuing the driving licence, the issuer of the certificate shall be informed as necessary and, in certain cases, the driver shall be prohibited from driving the train. I would like to support the Commission's proposal and conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U99	Any questions for the initiator's representative? Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, that's a very interesting lieutenant. I am not going to read out the Euro Directives that are twisting the language and which state how much must be taken over, and so on in dozens of pages. But I have a specific question. Estonian Railway has proposed a number of improvements, I ask you about one. For example, they have a note on the provision that states that the railway infrastructure does not belong to railways located in depots and maintenance centres. The answer is that it is not taken into account that, in fact, shut up, the directive provides that this must be the case. And there are more points. Is it true that Estonian Railway knows nothing, but these directives, which are six or seven pieces, know how to do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U101	I am absolutely sure that it does not say: 'Shut up, the directives will know. ' I think this has been a perfectly normal coordination process, where proposals were put forward. And I know that some suggestions have also come from the Riigikogu. The lead committee and the relevant working group will examine these improvements and then the legislator will be able to take its reasoned decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U102	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U103	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In order to achieve these objectives, businesses need to work hard and I understand that there should be a transitional period. How long could that be? Otherwise, the law will be practically operational in the first half of the year, but people need to be given time to meet all the requirements that are set out in these paragraphs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U104	I think that the timetable provided for in the law is completely real. From the state's point of view, the question is, rather, what are the public railways which, according to this contract, the conclusion of this contract has been delineated in the explanatory memorandum, must finance to ensure that the objectives are met. Thus, the main contribution is to maintaining the quality of the railways and the sustainability of the system. I think that there are even more opportunities for railway undertakings here than there are obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U105	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Explain this to me. The Euro Directives provide that passenger and freight platforms are part of passenger and freight stations, but Estonian Railway says there isn't. Where does the difference between the directive and Estonian practice come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U107	You will probably understand that this is what different coordination processes and different procedures are in the process of transposing European law, including the procedure at the legislator, so that different perceptions can become a high-quality piece of legislation. Here the Estonian Railway has expressed its opinion quite correctly and at the right time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U108	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You have noted that a certain number of level crossings are being reconstructed and other good activities are taking place. On what basis have you chosen these crossing points, by the number of accidents or by the company's fingertips that won the order?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U110	They have been selected in cooperation with Estonian Railways and have been evaluated precisely where safety needs to be improved. This is the main criterion, at least as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U111	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. Commission waitress Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U112	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The Economic Commission discussed the first reading of the draft law amending the Railway Act on Monday 11 January. Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Indrek Laineveer, Head of the Railway Service of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, were invited to the meeting of the Commission. The Minister presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and answered further questions. The draft takes over the European Union directives governing the establishment of a single railway area in the European Union and the certification of train drivers. The changes will make the rail market more transparent, enhance cooperation to facilitate international rail transport, and stimulate reliable and sustainable financing. The draft also increases the powers of the Competition Authority. The amendments concern in particular railway undertakings which, if necessary, have to make changes to their business structure in order to separate the operation of service facilities from other activities. The infrastructure manager shall provide further information on the conditions of use of the infrastructure in the network statement. In order to ensure the sustainability of the railway infrastructure, the State is obliged to ensure that the infrastructure manager is able to develop the infrastructure in accordance with the agreements concluded with the State, which means that, if necessary, the State must also contribute financially to the infrastructure manager. The draft specifies the requirements for periodic intermediate checking of train drivers, which also requires verification of language proficiency, if the language specified by the infrastructure manager for use on the rail is not the native language of the train driver. Language skills are essential for the train driver and dispatcher to understand each other, otherwise dangerous situations may arise as a result of misunderstandings. The draft specifies the code of conduct of the Technical Surveillance Authority if the driver does not comply with the established requirements. The Commission consensually proposed that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 27 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U113	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The question is this: which railway infrastructure must the state ensure that trains can travel at a higher average speed than 120 kilometres per hour?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U115	This is not the issue we discussed in the Commission. But between the first and second readings, we can certainly add this issue to the discussion, and if there is a second reading report in this Chamber, we can also give a more precise overview of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U116	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U117	Thank you. Good colleague! I'll come back to the language. You said that the driver and dispatcher must speak in two languages, Estonian and Russian. If the train driver is an Estonian citizen and speaks pure Estonian but does not speak Russian freely, must he take the Russian language test to complete this section? And if he has to do it, what level?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U118	The current situation in the railway sector is that the existing working languages are Estonian and Russian. This means that workers must speak both languages. In this sense, there is no change from the present.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U119	No further questions. Thank you, Kalle Palling! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The first reading of Bill 129 is complete. I will set the deadline of 27 January at 5 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U120	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur on behalf of the initiator is Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U121	Hello, Mr President-in-Office. Good hall! I happened to be nearby and present to you draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act 155. We've prepared it at the Ministry of the Environment. The draft essentially deals with three substantive issues, in addition to bringing the references in the law into line with European Union law and, of course, using the code of good legislative practice and regulation. An amendment to the regulation of alien species is necessary in order to align the provisions on the use of alien species with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down requirements for the prevention and management of the spread of invasive alien species in the European Union. Under that Regulation, alien species of concern to the European Union may not be imported, transported, kept or reproduced without authorisation. Exceptionally, such activities may be subject to authorisation where they are necessary for scientific research or for the conservation of ex situ species. The Lube shall be issued, suspended and revoked by the competent authority of the Member State which, according to the draft law, is the Environmental Agency. The list of problem alien species shall be confirmed by an implementing act which shall be in force at the beginning of 2016. We have this list nicely, and I'm sure the big ones will be familiar with it. The draft also raises the maximum level of punishment of legal persons for non-compliance with the requirements for the use of alien species to EUR 32000. The second substantive amendment clarifies the provisions to be transposed from the Habitats Directive. The Directive requires Member States to take the necessary measures to prevent the degradation of habitats and species in areas within the Natura 2000 network as well as the disturbance of the species for which the site is established. According to established administrative practice, protection arrangements continue to be established in accordance with the Habitats Directive for Natura 2000 sites. Since most areas of this network already have national protection arrangements in place, the Habitats Directive requirements are met in terms of content. However, for the sake of clarity, our Nature Conservation Act stipulates that the Natura 2000 site will also be protected at national level on the basis of the obligation of protection and taking into account the ecological needs of conservation values. The law is also supplemented by a provision that gives the special nature area in accordance with Article 4 (4) of the Habitats Directive an unambiguous meaning in Estonian law. As a third amendment, the law removes the date of expiry of the protection rules for protected areas and individual nature objects established before the entry into force of the Act if they have not been renewed or revoked on the basis of the law in force. The Nature Protection Act sets the deadline of 1 May 2016 for bringing the rules into line with the law on so-called "old protected areas'. Given the high number of rules to be updated, the time needed to process the draft and the complex and time-consuming content and formal requirements, this date is too optimistic. If this time limit is not changed, there will be a situation where, as a result of the expiry of the protection regime, natural values in several protected areas will not be protected and may be damaged or destroyed at worst. In conclusion, I note that this is a bill that brings Estonian legislation into line with European Union legislation and helps to ensure the preservation and protection of our natural values. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U122	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! It was interesting to read it all, but I'm asking you straight. You want to clean up the deadline of 1 May 2016. In the explanatory memorandum, you say that Estonia's 401 defence areas could otherwise be destroyed by 190. Name what beautiful places these are so that everyone can hear and know.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U124	Thanks! I'm not going to name any pretty places. We can still provide protection everywhere. It's just a time-limit that's in the law that's unrealistic. We will get our new management plans and rules in order, but not by 1 May 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U125	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U126	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This draft will allow additional areas to be taken into account for nature conservation. These areas are likely to benefit from a land tax concession for nature conservation areas, which in turn reduces the income from local budgets. Can you say anything about the impact of this bill on local budgets? The explanatory memorandum doesn't mention it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U127	Thanks! There is no plan to expand nature reserves under this draft. The situation remains the same whether this bill becomes a law or not. At the same time, as a minister, I say to you that, in addition to the concerns of local budgets, it must certainly be decided how, at all, everything that comes first and foremost from the restrictions on nature conservation for private owners would be compensated, and this is already the case in the lifetime of these people. I intend to continue my day-to-day work in such a way as to make it happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U128	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I understand that the focus of this draft is to prevent such cases so that Peter Ernits cannot bring the Nile crocodiles to Estonia for a second time. But I still wonder what happens to those specimens who come here quietly, like jackals and some plants whose seeds fall off trains, for example, etc. How do you beat them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U130	Thanks! I would like to say that the eye of the Minister for the Environment is reaching everywhere. I'm afraid I don't have the guts to take poison on it. We've found a solution to the jackal. In January, a week ago, the hunting code was freshly updated. The jackal has a small game and is hunted in the same way as a wolf. I look forward to the announcement of the first jackal hunt. When it comes to plants that happen to be in Estonia, not all of them may come under the watchful eye of the minister, but if you give some examples of these famous 37 species on the list of alien species, Sosnovsky bear and Persian bear trees are species in which the state contributes financially to controlling their spread. But I sure as hell ain't gonna get to every new exotic plant right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U131	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would also like to ask about alien species who do not care much about this regulation in itself. I am thinking of alien species in the Baltic Sea that travel with ships and are highly adaptable and aggressive. Many know that such are Chinese woolly crabs and roundheads, for example. But part of the Baltic Sea is a Natura 2000 protected area. How does this draft affect this part of the alien species? Are they on that list and how can this be regulated in the sea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U133	Thanks! There may not be very good solutions. As for the round muddy, I have seen with my own eyes how this fish is written on the wall of Kuressaare's shed on the menu. So some of them feed. In order to control not all alien species, we do not have a special plan and sometimes this exclusion may not be possible at all. However, this directive does say that a person should avoid this in their transport and at all, and the other one has a long grudge of prohibited activities, and sometimes inactivity is bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U134	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U135	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. As I understand it, with these alien species that have reached nature itself, we are not going to deal with. But I'm worried about the bear farmers. There have been talk of mints and, for example, chinchillas. Do you have an overview of how many farms there are in Estonia where, as a result of this legislative amendment, fur animals can no longer be kept, reproduced or imported? How many animals are there, how many jobs does this involve, how much export income do we miss? Farming fur in Estonia is mainly aimed at exports.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U136	Thanks! I think the co-rapporteur can explain that later. But when we look at this list that is transposed into Estonian law, which contains 37 species, we see that it does not speak a word about mints.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U137	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U138	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, We know that the process of updating the protection rules and management plans is quite emotional and contactful. I want to ask you this question, doesn't the withdrawal of this date mean that the problem is being distanced? Will the finalisation of these documents be actively pursued in cooperation with the communities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U139	Thanks! The short answer is yes. We've also been saying this to ourselves that even as powerful a minister of the environment as you were before me didn't get this job to stop by May 1st. You said your time was a little short. I accept that, but see, neither can I. So work with the communities will continue. The rules must be negotiated as soon as possible in cooperation with the communities, and then finally the power of the legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U140	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U141	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a little strange that you don't want to explain which species of animals it concerns. It appears from the explanatory memorandum that it directly affects all species of animals grown, bred and reproduced in our fur farms: blue fox, silver fox, American mink, chinchilla, etc. This sector employs a great many, hundreds and thousands of people, directly to growers, sellers, fashion designers, seamsmen, etc. The Karjaküla bear farm is the biggest employer in Keila municipality. If you bring it to an end, you will also destroy all the investments you have made so far and create the risk of a social disaster, because all these thousands of people will be out of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U142	The time for questioning is long gone. I hope the Minister understood its content.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U143	Yeah, thanks! There is no plan that you described.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U144	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U145	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister, open this background, please! One point is that legal persons can now be hit ten times, with EUR 32000 instead of the current EUR 3200. Who is the most affected? Does this concern any farms, whether it concerns garden spores, which are selling out-of-country plants on a massive scale, and which have resulted, for example, in these terrible reds, or is it affecting someone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U146	Thanks! This logic, as far as I am concerned, is due to the general logic of our penal policy. There are different levels of fines for natural persons and legal persons, in the same order of magnitude as that proposed in the draft. If you are now trying to construct an example of who it might apply to, perhaps a legal person who brings some exotic animal to Estonia for trading, which he cannot do under this law. I don't have any better examples to give.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U147	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U148	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In connection with this very bill, I have been approached by Estonian chinchilla growers and expressed serious concern that their activities, their investments, their incomes may be affected. Do you at this point in your speech clearly and unambiguously confirm that the adoption of this law will not force them to sign up to their previous investments in the chimneys and abandon their business?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U149	I want to confirm. Interestingly, I have not received such appeals. I don't know why they have chosen you and not the Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U150	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U151	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Here's the question. Will this draft, when it becomes a law, also solve the problem raised by its communities that, if the restrictions on nature reserves are extended, without socio-economic analysis? Have you thought about that? Is that even the case, and if so, would this law provide a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U152	Thanks! This bill does not offer a solution. As regards, at all, whether this bill should be adopted in the form it has been submitted to the first reading, my answer is no. The Ministry of the Environment itself will come up with certain changes, one example of which is what was agreed with the Ministry of Defence today, so that facilities can still be built for the training areas of the Defence Forces in agreement with environmental officials. So that's the change. We also come up with some flexibility proposals, for example, concerning protection category II species. They should be able to determine whether protection is necessary or not. There is also the possibility of a greater change in national regulation. Now this topic you discussed in the 2016 action plan we have put together a plan for the development of the law and we will try to go through everything that could make life in Estonia better, so that nature will be preserved. As Minister of the Environment, I have declared 2016 the Year of Nature Conservation and Human Approach, which in substance means that nature conservation and man are getting closer to each other, that we can conduct our debates with high quality, that we can justify our limitations and that we can say 'yes' where 'no' is not needed and that 'yes' is possible. It's easy to imagine, hard to implement on a daily basis, but I'm willing to make an effort to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U153	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U154	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! The questions put by my colleagues a few minutes ago are a cause for concern. Would you say once again how this law and the subsequent possible sub-level legislation affect the production of fur animals in Estonia? Or are they not affecting it in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U155	All of you, or at least most of you, have nice smart devices. If not, ask the neighbors! You will see that there are 37 species in this specific pan-European list of alien species. For example, there is such a great plant as garbage maiden grass and an animal like a grey squirrel. By sub-acting this list, the transposition of our code specifically concerns these 37 types and in no way alters an area that has already been regulated in any way. It doesn't automatically lose a bear farm.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U156	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U157	Thank you. I actually wanted to ask the same question. I tried to cancel the question, but I couldn't make it. Well, I'll check it out. Will you confirm that there will be no additional costs, damage or danger for Estonian fur animal production and industry under this EU regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U158	I dare stay with it. We are certainly prepared in the Ministry of the Environment to explain to all those groups who feel some kind of fear about how it might actually affect them. We can share this information with everyone, so every farm doesn't have to send us its own furry ambassador. I personally support the development of the economy in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U159	Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U160	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! A very rare situation has arisen: I have to support Mart Helmet, Andres Ammas and Henn Põlluaasa today. This morning I got a call from a Chinchilla teacher in Läänemaa who's also scared about this bill. He sees jobs and profits disappear there. Whether the role of Parliament has increased or the role of the ministry has decreased, perhaps you could send us a letter to take these fears down. What do you think of that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U161	Thanks! After this item, I get things done in this house. So I'm gonna go to work, and we're gonna make it clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U162	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U163	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In answering my first question, you claimed that there would be no additional areas of conservation under this future law. But I quote from the explanatory memorandum: 'In order to accurately transpose the directive, it must be expressly stated that areas which need protection under the directive must necessarily be protected. ' Does this mean that we have already met the requirements of the directive and that nothing else needs to be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U164	Thanks! Indeed, we have been protected in most Natura sites. There may be some real-life changes, some border correction. We can't say everything stays a hundred percent the way it was 15 years ago. There may be a decrease in some places, growing up in some places, but right now we don't have that separate knowledge of what this balance sheet is gonna be, because it's a continuous process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U165	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Environment Committee is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U166	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Environment discussed the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act on 14 December last year. The draft was presented to the members of the committee by Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants, Head of the Department of Nature Conservation of the Ministry of the Environment Taimo Aasma and Head of the Legal Department Eda Pärtel. As the Minister has already explained several times in this Chamber, the purpose of the draft was to bring the provisions governing the use of alien species into line with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The draft aims to strengthen the sanctioning of legal persons for non-compliance with the requirements for the use of alien species. But what were the members of the Committee on the Environment interested in? They wondered whether any infringement proceedings had been opened in Estonia under European Union law. The representatives of the Ministry explained that infringement proceedings have not been opened, but that has happened in other countries, and so the requirements of the European Union regulation must also be transposed into our Code. Following the discussion at the meeting, the Commission considered that, as the Commission has received several letters regarding the process of granting protection to natural sites and the planning of protection, a debate should be held between the first reading and the second reading, including all the authors of these letters. The Commission considered that the deadline for the submission of amendments had to be longer than usual, in order to allow further discussion on the extension of the protection regulation. The deadline for tabling amendments is 12 February 2016. As chairman of the committee, I reserve the right to supplement the Minister who has spoken earlier, who may not have examined the draft law from a point of view. Dear colleagues in this Chamber have asked a number of questions. Indeed, the word'some farm' is used in the explanatory memorandum to point 7. This sentence, which has repeatedly raised questions in this Chamber, reads: 'There is also a clearly too lenient penalty of EUR 3200 for infringements that could have a very significant negative impact on our nature, such as the establishment of illegal and/or non-compliant farms or farms of other species that threaten natural balance. ' It has nothing in common with the decision of the European Union to add 37 more species to the list. This is a specific increase in the fine if one of you in Estonia, or someone you know or have sent you a letter, would like to set up an illegal Chinchilla or some kind of farm on a good day. And see, if the Environmental Board or the Environmental Inspectorate discovers it, then it is as if it was possible to fine it with EUR 3200 in the past, then in the future, if we approve it in this Chamber, the fine will be EUR 32000. This point does not concern any legal farms that meet all the requirements. As we know, it was only a few years ago that the double garden requirement and other improvements were adopted. However, if no one has a malicious or criminal desire to disrupt the natural balance, the point does not concern him.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U167	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U168	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. Please tell me whether it also happened in the Commission's discussions that the Commission removed some animal species from this list or added some. Or did the Commission simply review the list of 37 animals or how many animals are there, nodded along, and that was it? Does the Commission also have a real right to decide to add or withdraw a species?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U169	Thank you. Taimo Aasma explained to the Commission at the meeting the list of foreign species which was supplemented by the European Union. For example, bearbug, raccoon, red ear-beautiful turtle and American spring breeze have been added. Our committee did not make any further proposals to the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U170	Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U171	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! The strengthening of the sanction is undoubtedly an objective of some kind. So how many of these illegal farms have been discovered? Have there been so many infringements that the penalties so far do not work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U172	Good colleague! No illegal farms have recently been identified in Estonia. Estonian entrepreneurs, as already sounded in this hall, are law-abiding and have not gone on this path. However, as the Minister has also said, it makes sense, in comparison with natural persons, to change this penalty rate for legal persons. Take it nine times, cut it once! Better safe than sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U173	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U174	Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Commission, thank you for paying attention to the farms. In reality, this should mean that farm owners should start investing more in buildings. Is there an aid measure to help farm owners invest in order to comply with the law and to avoid dangerous situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U175	Thank you for a good question. I'll answer again and try to make it even clearer. The regulation concerns illegal or non-compliant farms. As of today, according to the Environmental Inspectorate, Environmental Board and Ministry of Environment, there are no illegal farms in Estonia. Once again, I stress that some kind of farm is just an example. Why, for example, in five years' time, could someone not come up with a malicious idea, such as a raccoon carufarm? The raccoon is banned as an alien species in the European Union under this new EU regulation. If such a farm were discovered, today the Environmental Inspectorate could fine its owners with EUR 3200, with EUR 32000 in the future. This is not a step to put current businesses in order; rather, it is a foresighted step to point out that this activity is harmful to the ecosystem and nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U176	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U177	Thank you. Thank you, Mr President of the Commission, especially for supplementing the Minister's report. That was very interesting. I ask, however, about your statement that tightening up the sanctions on existing farms is not an issue. I'm reading from the same point that we're talking about illegal and/or substandard farms. What guarantees are there that all farms will meet the requirements now and in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U178	Thank you. I agree with the answer in your question. Of course, if the existing farms and chinchilla farms today, on 13 January 2016, meet all the requirements, that does not mean that this will continue to be the case. If anyone decides after this law has been passed here in the Riigikogu, for example, to dismantle all the gardens, to let the animals loose maliciously or to illegally establish a subsidiary, such as a daughter-some farm, then of course you can impose a higher fine on him. However, I would like to reiterate that there is no reason to scare companies that act correctly in accordance with the law, to ask them for any clarification or simply to heat them up. We still rely on the assumption that the person and entrepreneur in Estonia is law-abiding and then no fines are imposed on him.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U179	Thank you, Rainer Vakra! I'm opening negotiations. Peeter Ernits, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U180	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Because of my background, I came up with this bill and tried to read it. I confess to you that, despite my preparation, the first time I did not understand what was written in it. I read it five times. If you want to read this explanatory statement, I think that even most members of the Committee on the Environment did not understand what was written there. This is a bureaucratic text that could be part of the relevant gold fund. So much for the background. Second moment. Looking at what the current Nature Conservation Act looks like, adopted in 2004, and what a new one will look like if we approve it, it seems that so far it looks pretty normal. But right now, we're going to push this text into different places. I'll read you a few provisions. For example, under point 1: 'Natural object shall also be protected under this law in cases where this is necessary for the implementation of Council Directive 92/43/EEC on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora (OJ L206, 22.7.1992, p. 7 to 50) or Directive 2009/147/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conservation of wild birds (OJ L20, 26.01.2010, p. 7 to 25). " And there are many such examples. If so far the text of the Nature Conservation Act could also be printed out and understood by everyone, then now that the text of the Euro Directives has been implanted on several sides, even indicating pages, such as 7 to 50 etc., the result is what it is. So if you don't know what it says when you're doing the Nature Conservation Act in a new form, you don't even know what it says. I would stress that the current Nature Conservation Act is 50 pages, but if you weld the buttons inside the bill, the buttons are bigger than the jacket, 83 pages. They are also not reflected in the text of the law. So that was the second point. The third point is that § 91 (1) is collected by one date: 1 May 2016. As a result, according to our 401 nature conservation explanatory notes, 59 or even 190 will fall under attack. For 12 years, they've been defensive, but they haven't done it. Similarly, we could collect the deadlines for other pending draft laws. For example, when tools should be available, etc. For 12 years, work has been briskly done, but there are still no protection arrangements for half of the protected areas. Now it's the easiest way to take this date out and then you can dodge as long as it takes. I'd like to know why that is. The Minister of the Environment said that he would not answer the question of what are the protected areas that could be hit. I know this is our oldest and most famous protected areas. Next, what is the fine of EUR 32 000? Everyone's heard of mints, of course. I am not surprised that there were the most questions on this subject, but as far as I know, this fine most likely concerns other people and businesses. Excuse me, can I have a little more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U181	You'll have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U182	In my question, I mentioned garden spores, which deal with all kinds of gardening stuff, spreading both theoretically and practically dangerous species. The same red big snail, for example, whose eggs spread in this way or bilge, is spread by all kinds of muds and other characters. So this area is much wider. The main and final comment, however, is that reading this bill, all the buttons that are added to the jacket, raises the question of the sovereignty of Estonian nature conservation. In essence, the law consists only of the requirements of the Euro Directives and our own role has become marginal. I've been talking to my old colleagues at the Ministry of the Environment and its departments. They confirmed my doubts that, in fact, there are directives everywhere. Whether we really need all this is a question of our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-13_U183	With this heartfelt confession, negotiations have been concluded. On a proposal from the Commission, the first reading of draft 155 is closed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 12 February. Thank you. Goodbye, see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 2.59 p.m.
