ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 9th working week. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. We're gonna do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Attention, colleagues. There's a message. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Estonian-Cyprus parliamentary group will be held in the Chamber, convened by Kalle Palling. Let's be active!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have four items on the agenda. The first is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on law enforcement initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 267. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on law enforcement initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs 267. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 1 was impartial, no one opposed. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U3	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Election of the President of the Republic initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Jüri Adams, member of the Riigikogu, will be presented!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U4	Dear Riigikogu! There were presidential elections in Estonia not very long ago. After a very complicated coupling and moves, after a very high nerve drain we finally got a new president. During these elections, very many people, especially journalists, raised the question that the procedure for electing the President, which is currently in place in our constitution, is not good, to put it mildly, and, to put it a little harder, it is bad and inappropriate. At that time, the Free Party Group presented a draft to improve the procedure for electing the President with the possibilities that we have if...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U5	Waitress, I'm sorry! People in the hall, please pay attention to the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U6	...we're not trying to change the constitution. We have the basic rules for electing the President in two texts. First of all, § 79 of the Constitution, the political content of which is quite unambiguously understandable, shows that there is no direct election system for the President in Estonia. At the same time, however, there are a number of things in this section that, formally speaking, may seem quite thoughtful, but technically probably not suitable for the election of the President. There are two main problems here. Firstly, that the presidential candidate, wherever he or she would not be elected, is being sought at the same time to achieve both an extremely high yield of votes and a minimum number of possible rounds of elections and the intervals between them which are necessary for political negotiations. If you look at how things are organised in other European countries that have the same type of presidential elections, it is not the way we do that both claims are set at the same time, but vice versa. There are two ways. One is that the number of rounds is essentially unlimited. This is the case in Latvia and Italy, for example. The second option is to provide that, at some point in time, a qualified majority is no longer necessary for the election of the President, but a simple majority is also sufficient. In my opinion, I have spoken about this before, one of the working lines of our era here in the Riigikogu is that errors in our administration for various reasons should be corrected to the extent that they hinder the smooth functioning of the state. The question here is rather how we interpret and understand the respective norms of the Constitution. There are two basic methods. One is historical, i.e. we could ask ourselves what the constitutionalists thought during the drafting process and whether they were able to formulate their thoughts well. Another way is to ask what some provision means now. It's a modern interpretation to decide how we should proceed here and now. I think that, unlike academic legal historians, our task as a Riigikogu is to find an answer to another question on how to correct shortcomings and errors. A historical interpretation will only help us. I do not know how many have noticed that a very important part of the explanation of the Constitution is in § 3 of the Constitutional Implementation Act. It is, in itself, a long paragraph, which, among other things, gives a rather comprehensive explanation of what the various requirements of majority voting in the Constitution mean. A majority of two thirds of the votes cast, a four-fifths majority, a majority of its component members and a two-thirds and a three-fifths majority of its component members shall be defined. This text, which is about a half or a third page, is actually what gives us an explanation of how we need to understand the Constitution in all those places where there is a vote. It seems immediately that the paragraph of the presidential election procedure has nothing to do with this part of it. Why this happened in the spring of 1992, I have no explanation for it, but it is not a good result. Whether we will be able to correct it now afterwards is a question of our own. When the Act on the Election of the President was passed in 1996 in the Riigikogu, a problem was reached that had not been noticed before. In the last paragraph of § 79 of the Constitution, there is such a sentence: 'The electoral body shall elect the President of the Republic by a majority of the members of the electoral body who have taken part in the vote. ' The question arose as to what it means, because it was not mentioned in § 3 of the Implementing Act, which I pointed out earlier. At that time, both in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, the understanding that only the votes given by or against the candidate are taken into account and the votes that we normally interpret as neutral votes are not taken into consideration at all. Here, I believe, there will be a political-cultural confusion like this. Look, we have the freedom to vote here in the Riigikogu between the four options. We have three keys: for, against and impartial. The fourth option is that we do not use any of these keys, i.e. we do not participate in the vote at all. Different possibilities have been used and are still being used in different times and cultures around the world. There are political systems where only two options are used under certain conditions or in general: for or against. There are systems that use three variants in favour, against and impartial, but this option that does not participate at all is prohibited. There are quite a number of political systems with four options. I am not a 'political technology' historian, I cannot say whether we have ever, say, had a serious alternative to these four options since 1918, but generally we have adopted this system of four options. In my opinion, the current problem is the Presidential Election Act, which says that there is only a system of two possibilities, although the entire Estonian society, including the Riigikogu, uses a system of four possibilities. So this thing should be harmonised and brought together. That is also the content of our draft. There is another important thing in our draft that must also be rejected in this context. The Act on the election of the President, adopted in 1996, has, in my opinion, been incorporated into the Constitutional Assembly's will forgery. Counterfeiting is that in the material of the Constitutional Assembly we have no comment on the possibility that, if the election of the President has come together, it may come back to the Riigikogu again. But this is quite logical from accepting the so-called two voting options. So that's the question. Perhaps the broader political issue that cannot be discussed within the framework of this draft is that from European countries with a system of indirect presidential election, we only have a system with two places of election: the Riigikogu and the electoral body. This is absurd in a certain sense and is certainly contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. The very first sessions of the Constitutional Assembly, led by Rein Taagepera, discussed that a good regime is one where there is only one method of doing everything, not two, because it leads to bad results. So my far-reaching appeal is that if we ever had enough will and strength to change § 79 of the Constitution, there could be only one place to vote in the Riigikogu or the electoral body. I think that, for practical-political reasons, it could be a electoral body. There should be some very extraordinary situation where this option could only be reduced to members of the Riigikogu. Finally. Granting this draft was, of course, a long-term work. In a way, it was also a commitment to the election and a commitment at the time of the presidential election campaign to try to start work in this direction. While this was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the time when the previous Prime Minister had already been distrusted, his government coalition was still working completely without oil, it was estimated that our draft had to be rejected, and this issue is to be voted on today. From the point of view of current policy, the most interesting thing is that yesterday the Prime Minister's candidate announced that, before he was appointed in the round of questions and answers, among other things, that his government would no longer use such a simple method that all the drafts coming from the opposition side would be expelled from the proceedings. Today, we have the opportunity to make sure that this happens when we decide to finish or not to stop reading this bill. Personally, I am skeptical because, generally speaking, it is behind this thinking that no one other than the Ministry of Justice and its officials knows anything at all that only they know everything and rightly, quite strong inertia, and it does not change so quickly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U7	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, first of all, happy birthday! I ask in this way: does this bill also give rise to a more general need to correct in other laws the question of the number of voters who have taken part in the vote? I understand this thing is kind of really harali. It could be identified just like the one who took out the note and signed it, but they may not all be boxed in the note. This can be determined by the notes in the ballot box and can be established, as proposed in the draft, clearly by the votes cast by one candidate or another, i.e. where it is clearly marked on the note. Is there a more general need to lay down such a general rule in other electoral laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U9	I don't know if that's the need right now. If you look at how, in different cultures, how, in different countries, in some quantity where decisions are taken by vote, proposals are put forward for minimum support so that the proposal can be put to the vote at all, which options are there, then in fact, such matters have a broader background than the text of the Constitution. These are elements of the political culture of this society, which are usually used to at an early age, taking over the practice of previous generations. We have things as they are in the transition situation. The Soviet era ended, and if the Soviet vote had any meaning at all, it was a certain decorative, propaganda activity in some things. Therefore, at the time of the restoration of independence, very many people were really confused about how we should be doing now. Someone remembered something about the pre-war independent methods of voting in Estonia. Many foreign Estonians knew how to vote in their country of residence. But in general, this was an age of hesitation. In my opinion, we should now have a system of more or less accepted four options. I don't remember any serious meetings where anyone would question this system. So maybe it's time to correct the mistake you made in your time. How general this opinion is in Estonia, I don't know. Our political scientists could carry out some substantial, sufficiently practical research into this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U10	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U11	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good George! There is a very clear point in yesterday's signed Coalition Agreement between the Centre Party, the IRL and the Sots that states that the procedure for electing the President will be changed. And the Prime Minister's candidate really gave this signal that any proposal, regardless of who it comes from, is welcome. Did the debate in the Commission reveal from what point of view or direction the Members of the IRL, Sots and Centre Party wish to change the procedure for electing the President? Was it clear which way this could go?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U12	It wasn't very clear. As we all know, the main issue of the election of the President of the Gulf is between those political forces who would like to have a direct election, as is currently the case in Finland and Lithuania, and between those who think that indirect election is the right one. The ratio of forces has been about 1/3 and 2/3 from the Constitutional Assembly until now. Perhaps there is a growing trend in the number of direct electoral supporters. At least the Estonian Conservative People's Party, as I understand it, would support the election, either predominantly or entirely, directly. But in any case, it's missing a so-called half. There are, in turn, a number of opinions on exactly how they should be organised among the supporters of indirect elections. Some part of it is certainly of the opinion, especially because the last time President Kaljulaid was elected on the second round here in the Riigikogu, so that in the end we could continue to live in the same way, that nothing was special and the result was basically not bad. However, those who think that the shortcomings are large enough have not found a quite uniform way forward. We did not have a very clear understanding in the Commission. The members of the Centre Party Group expressed great sympathy for the direct elections, and the other members of the Commission, especially the Reform Party's ambassadors, supported the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, or it had come from the Ministry of the Interior, I am sorry, I do not have the text of the Government's opinion at hand at the moment. After all, the main point of the opinion was that our draft is bad and unsuitable because it is contrary to the current constitution. I do not see this contradiction with the Constitution. I think there are a lot of problematic places in the Constitution where one explanation or another can be given, one interpretation or another. And the place where this one or the other interpretation is given would be precisely the Riigikogu Hall, where it says what interpretation would be like here and now. We cannot cherish the hope that we will postpone this matter, perhaps one day before the Supreme Court, and then the Supreme Court will decide. I think this is an overestimation of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court should not be subjected to this kind of political-theoretic disputes. So what can I say about that? We basically have two alternatives. One is that we, as a Riigikogu, draw a bold conclusion and give this confused place a sufficiently clear interpretation. As I said, it is the first sentence of paragraph 79 of the penultimate paragraph. If Estonian society and the lawy community decide that the interpretation given in the Riigikogu is not good enough, they may, in turn, challenge it in the Supreme Court. But it is not up to us to expect the Supreme Court to do political and state-organized work for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U13	Since Igor Gräzin is not in the hall at the moment, please, Peter Ernits, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U14	Good manager! Good birthday boy! Your opinion as a constitutional writer is vital to us. You said that the Constitutional Assembly's opinion or will was forged by the President's election law. Under whose leadership, and how was the will of the Constitutional Assembly forged?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U15	It is not so easy to determine the will of the Constitutional Assembly. We can now say more or less with certainty that neither the Constitutional Assembly's plenary meetings nor the working groups' meetings fixed such an opinion that the electoral body does not necessarily have to elect the President and the election can come back to the Riigikogu. There has been no monographic study of the work of the Constitutional Assembly and, according to memories and verbatim texts, it is very difficult to conclude anything because there are no texts of the proposals voted on, they are not available. When was this forgery committed? In my opinion, counterfeiting was committed at the beginning of the VIII Riigikogu in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Those people who were working on this law there, I think that Mart Nutt can say in more detail, I suppose he was among them, too, did not, in my opinion, go far enough into the work of the Constitutional Assembly. I don't think they were part of the job. Or was someone involved? Maybe Liia Hänni was there. I can't tell exactly who was there right now. In my opinion, there was this mistake that I would now call dramatizing here a forgery.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U16	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with you that the procedure for counting the votes of the electoral body is currently the biggest problem and needs to be corrected. I also agree with your statement that this is not the whole issue of the procedure for electing the President. Take, for example, the nomination of candidates, their equal treatment, etc. Do you admit that it is possible to take all this time and make a proper audit so that we can have a democratic procedure for the election of a democratic, well-functioning President who will definitely lead to the result?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U18	Of course, that is, in principle, possible. However, our current attitude towards the Constitution is that its existing text has, in my opinion, been quite overstated and, in the course of overestimation, some of its shortcomings have been ignored. Unfortunately, this attitude has also been confirmed in the comments of the relevant sections of the Constitutional Commentary Edition, and this has become an obstacle in itself. As far as the audit is concerned, I have been in favour of one thing that may not seem very practical in the practical politics of the Riigikogu. It is that things should be corrected one by one, not so that your group or the opposition can have a suitable correction and ours gets a little different. But we are no longer in 1991 or 1992, it will take years to prepare such things, and only the ruling coalition, which currently has both the political will and the corresponding majority, can make a change. In order to make such a change, at least the majority of the two successive compositions of the Riigikogu are required, but these matters could be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U19	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U20	Thank you for this bill. The current regime would require as much consensus as possible in the Riigikogu. The need for consensus will be relaxed in terms of the number of voters. If this is the way to amend the Constitution, the situation will arise that this requirement will become even more lenient for the electoral body. I understand here, just as you do, that in this case the election to the Riigikogu will become unnecessary at all, because hardly would anyone then pursue this consensus. My question is this: suddenly, we should debate this issue first, whether we are looking for the consensus President or whether we are choosing who gets the most votes? It's a much easier choice than deciding where to vote for the president later.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U21	We have one very well prepared paper at our disposal. This is the topic page 12 of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, published this year, entitled 'Indirect presidential election systems in European countries'. There are quite a number of countries that do not use direct elections. There are 20 of them, but most of them are historically constitutional monarchies. There are nine countries that use different systems. There are two very important things about these systems. One is that Estonia is completely unique in that we have two places to be chosen. In all other countries, either Parliament or the electoral body are elected. As far as I know, Italy, for example, which is currently changing its constitution, is still sticking with the electoral body. The question now is that it is probably not possible to maintain the requirement of a very large majority, let us say, the requirement of a consensus candidate, unless it is recognised that the number of voting rounds cannot be limited to that, they could theoretically be infinite. Another thing is the nomination of candidates, which was brought to the attention of the representative of the people, Maruste. Our experience in the last elections was that part of the political interest or perhaps more serious mass media actually began to carry out the presidential election campaign itself. It was in their interest that candidates were known early and could then be used for all kinds of mass media events, panel discussions, etc. It seems that if we want a consensus candidate, basically we cannot go down the road that the nominations are locked at some point, for example, six months or three months before the elections. The interesting thing about the Italian system is that there are no formal candidates at all. Every time the Italian electorate votes, the person with the right to vote writes the name of the person he likes on the note. So new candidates can be submitted until the last round. If you go this way to do an American election campaign with a lot of TV programs, flag waving and all that, then you cannot demand, at the same time, that the winner candidate must necessarily receive a qualified majority. It may be, but it doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U22	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U23	Good manager! Good waitress! The Minister of Justice has told us at least once in this Chamber that the Constitution should not be taken literally; it must be read. You are the author of this most important law of ours and should be able to read this text. The government says that this bill that the Free Party has come up with is against the Constitution, but you, who are one of the writers of this constitution, say that you do not see a contradiction with the Constitution. Tell us a little bit more about what to do with this constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U24	I don't think there's much to do with the Constitution but live with it. There's nothing else. I've never been part of the Constitutional Mystery School. In my opinion, the value of the Constitution for the life of the country is roughly the same as the existence of traffic regulations for road traffic in our cities and roads. It is a system of agreements aimed at ensuring that traffic is flowing as smoothly and as quickly as possible and that there are as few fatalities and accidents as possible. I must admit that I am looking at this constitutional matter on a practical issue. As far as the Constitution is concerned, it is certainly possible to construct sentences or assertions in which everyone clearly states that yes, we agree. But there is some part of it that can be said that there is a formal contradiction, but it is essentially not clear whether there is a contradiction. The question is to a large extent an understanding of words; there are a number of questions about words. One thing is that the meaning of words changes in time. The second thing I have said and I am probably saying as long as I still have the power to argue is that a number of wording errors have been introduced into the Constitution for reasons that are not deliberate or bad. Among other things, they were likely to be created by a last-minute linguistic finish by people who had the skills of proofreader and editor but who had not participated in the drafting of the Constitution. So that's it. And the third, perhaps the most important thing, is that our lives are changing rapidly and there are many more things that the Constitution says nothing about. At the same time, however, in terms of the functioning of state life, we must give some explanation of how we should view them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U25	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U26	Maestro! The thing is, I am in favour of a very conservative approach and I do not think that the text of the Constitution is being played. At the same time, I admit that there are elements left in our constitution, which are somewhat comical, we are talking about Eesti Pank, currencies and other such things there. We understand that this is a game, i.e. a text that doesn't mean anything. But now you've stepped on the point where the constitution really means, because the way we choose the President is really real. It's not romance, you have to come into this room, fill something up, etc. It's a real thing! That is why I am simply asking the assumption: have you thought about the need for the President's institution before we go to change how to choose? Just in case, I stress that I am not fighting against the institution, that great passion I have overcome, but I might still ask if it is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U27	Yes, I absolutely agree with all the arguments contained in the introduction to this question. As far as the need for the President is concerned, this is one thing that there were two fundamental disputes in Estonia before the war. The first dispute was in the Age of the Constituent Assembly. I can't tell you why, but in the new countries that emerged after the collapse of the Russian Empire, at least three, Estonia, Latvia and Georgia, which have very similar constitutions, I have read them, the others I do not know so well, it was based on the fact that the state is perfectly organised without the institution of the Head of State, that the head of government also fulfils his duties. There were opposers back then. The same problem arose in 1933 during the economic crisis and in the competition for new texts of the Constitution. According to my historical assessment, the fact that we did not have the separate heads of state foreseen in the 1920 Constitution may have been one, perhaps not the most important, but still quite an important reason for what happened in 1933. When the Constitutional Assembly came together, I believe that the majority of the people who acted there felt that Estonia must have a separate head of state. One of the draft constitutions that did not enter into formal competition was Kalle Kulbok's draft, and it was built on the absence of the President. In my opinion, it was in the first place in 1992. The conclusion made in Estonia's political thinking by 2010 is that the existence of the President is certainly less evil than the absence of the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U28	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Maestro! My question is a little broader. We're in this room now dealing with the fine-tuning of a complex mechanism, but let's look back at this year and think about America, for example. The people there voted in favour of Hillary Clinton, but the president became the result of having a multi-stage electoral system, a completely different candidate. We've had the same story close enough to get such a great president, but the people wanted a different lady. How should the Estonian Constitution be viewed in the future? But shouldn't we trust more people and not think of them as fools? Why can't people pick the president directly?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U30	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You know as well as I do that we have the forces that are in favour of this idea. In this Chamber, it is supported by at least two political groups and perhaps there are supporters in other groups as well. I believe that they would respond better to this question. I started my work in a situation where I rather criticised such a regime and tried to show what risks it might pose. In 1991 and 1992, these threats seemed much greater and more real than they are now, but they are not yet completely nonexistent. As far as the United States is concerned, the United States, like all the old republican states, must take into account the changing time. The procedure for electing the President of the United States was made in years when there was not even a telegraph, let alone the Internet. The election of the President really went like this, so the voters went to the electorate collections, who had a canoe, who didn't take the motorboat, I guess the motorboat wasn't on horseback, and so on. The Americans seem quite satisfied, despite the fact that their electoral system is highly criticised for their technical possibilities. But there doesn't seem to be any serious attempt to rebel against the system. This time, it was against something else, not the electoral system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U31	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U32	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, My question is similar to Mr Soosaar's question and concerns the full reform of the presidential election system. The current draft shows that there is a genuine desire to improve the selection mechanism and to avoid the situation that arose last time. I cannot say that what happened last time would have been the worst, because in the end, there was a very rare consensus and consensus here in the Riigikogu, which is the purpose of the election of the President. I think, in fact, this system showed its operation at the most difficult moment. However, my question is rather that, if the Free Party Group has tabled a draft that brings the consensus threshold to a very low level, why would your group not have tabled a draft that would lead to the election of the President directly? In that case, the political games and backroom agreements that have recently emerged would disappear altogether.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U33	What can I do to argue with you? This Group of the Free Party is not a so-called clear link on such issues. The conversations between us have revealed that there are eight of us who are in favour of a direct selection system. I think we put forward this draft in a bit of a hurry. Not because we had taken the matter somewhat superficially, but at that point there was a political message from us and also from the Estonian people that someone should be dealing with this issue. Otherwise, there was a danger that for four or five years everything would remain exactly as it is now. As far as a specific draft is concerned, further processing of this kind of draft, if they are to be dealt with at all, is the basic philosophy that all people who are able and willing to speak on this subject would do so and submit their draft. It is never meant that this initial, first-reading text is the best in the world. There's no way it could be. The final comment on our last presidential election is that the result was unusual. There has never been a situation like this before, and it can be predicted that there is little likelihood that something like this will happen again in the next 20 to 30 years. The basic philosophy is that the methods of functioning of the regime should not include so much chance, but should be a little more effective. It's not dice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U34	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Mart Nuti, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft law at its regular meeting on 15 November. Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, was also invited to the debate. All members of the Commission, with the exception of Jaak Madison, were present. Jüri Adams's presentation set out the question of who was the chairman of the Commission at the beginning of composition VIII and who was the head of the advisor-secretary. I remember the chairman of the committee was Olav Anton of the Centre Party, and the head of the advisor-secretariat was Leo Laks. Whether or not there was some kind of forgery on this issue, I do not have any information. I can tell you, though, that Leo Laks has left the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as adviser to the head of the secretariat with one problem. The problem was that the text of the adopted law had been amended before the announcement, and it came out. But it wasn't related to this bill. Jüri Adams gave a very thorough presentation at the committee meeting. What Jüri Adams spoke about in the committee, he spoke about here in the Riigikogu, so I will present the other views and questions raised at the committee meeting. First of all, the representative of the Ministry of Justice, Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, presented the position of the Government of the Republic. He explained that the Government of the Republic decided at its meeting on 27 October not to support the draft Act amending the Act on the Election of the President of the Republic on the ground that the draft was contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. At the same time, the Government of the Republic agrees that a wider discussion on the procedure for electing the President of the Republic is necessary, as there are other problems in this area. Member of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin noted that the Central Party Group supports the President of the Republic's direct elections and therefore this draft does not propose 'cosmetic corrections' as a solution to the problems related to the election of the President. At the same time, the initiator could explain what will happen if, for example, two candidates who do not have broad support reach the electoral body. If, for example, only three persons take part in the vote in the electoral body and the votes are divided so that one candidate receives two votes and the other one vote, it is in principle possible that the person may be elected president by two votes. To this, Jüri Adams, the representative of the initiators of the draft, replied that, formally, when the draft law came into force, it would indeed be possible for the President to be elected in the electoral body even by one vote. It can be said that there has been no such theoretical situation in the practice of the Republic of Estonia so far. If there really were to be such a situation, it would be a problem, but it can be dealt with when it actually happens. Member of the Riigikogu Peeter Ernits noted that there are quite a number of things in the Constitution that should be updated and rewritten. But at the same time, the legislator is in a so-called closed position. The current Minister of Justice has repeatedly said that it is not wise to read the Constitution literally; you must be able to read it. How to overcome this problem, how many mistakes the founders of the Constitution see today and how they should be corrected, was again explained by Jüri Adams. He replied that the Constitution had been amended unusually little, but only in areas where the need for change had been obvious, so there had been sufficient support for them. Mr Mart Nutt, Member of the Commission, also spoke. Mart Nutt said that it is certainly impossible to interpret a number of circumstances in any other way, for example, that the Riigikogu can only elect the President of the Republic by a two-thirds majority. This may, of course, be a little illogical, because there is no point in sticking to the same requirement if none of the previous rounds has produced a result. Consequently, this requirement could be alleviated, but the Constitution does not provide such an opportunity. The election of the President to the electoral body is set out as an adequate solution. The Constitutional Assembly apparently believed seriously and sincerely that there was such a consensus that the President could be elected by a two-thirds majority of the Riigikogu. The authors of the constitution also believed that the electoral body would, in any event, elect the President in the second round. The idea that the President would not be elected in the electoral body, obviously did not arise from the drafters of the constitution. It can either be confirmed or refuted by Jüri Adams, since I myself was not a member of the Constitutional Assembly. Until this year's presidential elections, this has actually been a success. In essence, Jüri Adams can be agreed on how to change the procedure for electing the President. The election panel would have three alternative options: the first option is to vote in favour of one candidate, the second option is to vote in favour of another candidate, and the third option is not to withdraw ballot papers. Such a solution would be perfectly correct and conceivable, but in Mart Nut's view, it would still need a constitutional amendment. Only the interpretation of the law will probably not get over it or around it. Kalle Muuli, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, said that he also felt that the current procedure for electing the President was unreasonable. When writing the Constitution, the Assembly certainly did not want the election of the President to remain between the Riigikogu and the electoral body forever. However, Kalle Muuli also takes the view that the Constitution should be amended in this case. Kalle Laanet, the chairman of the committee, believes that the procedure for electing the President of the Republic must be made more sensible, and if it is really to do so, the Constitution should also be amended. Decisions. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to send this draft to the plenary session on 22 November. This was done in consensus, so Kalle Laanet, Jüri Adams, Kristjan Kõljalg, Andres Anvelt, Anneli Ott, Kalle Muuli, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Peeter Ernits were in favour. It was proposed to reject the draft at first reading (with 6 votes for, 1 against and 3 abstentions). By Kalle Laane, Kristjan Kõljalg, Andres Anvelt, Kalle Muuli, Lauri Luik and Mart Nutt. Jüri Adams opposed and Anneli Ott, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Peeter Ernits abstained. It was decided unanimously to appoint Mart Nutt as rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. My report has been submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U36	Thank you. You have questions too. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U37	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good colleague Mart! Is the coalition agreement signed yesterday valid today as the basis for a new political culture? Will the draft amendment to the presidential election procedure pass the first reading today and the discussions continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U38	Thank you. The Coalition Agreement was not discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U39	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U40	Good Mart! I just have to ask you. I've asked Helmen, too, and the problem is the same. This is a question of our Rules of Procedure. You read us a verbatim report that is very well available to all of us. Do you think it's wise that we're just going to read the verbatim charts from now on? Perhaps, however, it would be more appropriate for the rapporteur to present what exists for each report, the so-called executive summary? Could the Commission's waitress in the future be limited to executive summary and not assume that we cannot find the protocol ourselves? It doesn't really concern you, but since I asked Helmen about it, I don't want it to stay on the level of one person. This is the problem of organising the work of the entire Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U41	Thank you. Igor, please, go to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, take out the protocol, and you'll see that I didn't read the protocol to the full extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U42	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. I will open negotiations between the representatives of the political groups, assuming that all speakers are representatives of the political groups. Martin Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U43	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The initiative of the Free Party to change the procedure for electing the President is undoubtedly gratifying. I think that all people in this Chamber understand and agree that the current procedure for electing the President of Estonia is complicated and unsuccessful. There are a number of stumbling points that the creators of the order did not foresee or can count on, and which have caused us a headache in the election of the President earlier, not just this year. However, it must be said that, from the point of view of our group, the draft solves problems or, in fact, one particular problem very narrowly and in our view in the wrong direction. If we assume that the President will be appointed as a result of a cross-party agreement or a more general political consensus, that is to say a compromise, then a step in the direction of bringing the bar to a lower level will not help to find this compromise. Rather, it moves the process of electing the President closer to the possibility of manning the coalition with its husband. That is why we do not support this bill. In our understanding, the procedure for electing the President should be changed so that the people directly elect the President. This requires a change in the Constitution, which, of course, requires a broader political agreement in Parliament or, according to our preferred solution, a change in the Constitution in a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U44	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Igor Gräzin Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U45	I'll ask for more time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U46	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U47	I am not sure that I am speaking on behalf of the Reform Party Group, but I will look up to date if they agree, then I have spoken, going as it goes. I'm not told not to speak, so silence is consent. Martin, listen, please! There's a small place where we might not be able to make things right. I'll explain. There's one reason I'm against directly electing the president. The point is, when I read what the President of the Republic has to do, there is no function that would require a public mandate. He appoints ambassadors, gives national awards, etc. It is important, but not so important, that it requires a public mandate. The opposite is true: the more directly the President has been elected, the wider the mandate of the people he has, the greater his powers must be. This is not a problem if life is going its way, the President is fulfilling the Constitution, the Riigikogu is doing its thing, etc., say that he can and cannot do it. It gets messy when a question arises in a country when people ask who really owns the power. These are small examples, but they are fundamental. If, as a result of Lennart Meri's actions, there were two supreme commanders of the troops in Estonia for two months, i.e. the old one could not be released, a new one had been appointed, then the army did not know who to obey. True, there was a liability to the Actor that there were no generals, but there were very physical and physiological reasons why he could not manage the troops well. Two months is not a long time, but it was essentially an interregnum. Question number two is this army thing. It's gotten out of the Constitution now, but it's a deaf accident. Almost the Commander-in-Chief, the president is very close to who should be responsible. In clear weather, ten men walk in front of it, another in the water behind it, and don't come back. And no one's responsible! They said they were our best men. Imagine what our worst were. William Tominga's Silent Era in Estonia, not Martin, but Mart Helme, is a powerful book! The bad guy was absolutely legal. But then the question arose of who owns the power, whether this official structure or the established movement of the people, to the shoals. By the way, just in case, the brats were right and Päts wasn't. They did the right thing, but propaganda remembers the other way around. I mean, the official propaganda of Soviet times, of modern times and of the Fatherland Union is that Päts is good and the braves are bad. But that's not the point. The point is that the people asked, "Is power there or is power here?" If we had a directly elected president, who theoretically has the opportunity to say that you, Riigikogu, hello, you got votes for 101, I got alone who then says on whose behalf the newspapers start going. Now, this is the point of risk where, as a constitutional state, we are going to emerge from the real framework of the Constitution as a result of some kind of conflict. That's where the danger is. Is that a threat needed? I don't know. This has nothing to do with whether we have a nice or less nice president, etc. However, this whole issue of direct selection, not direct selection, arose precisely with specific individuals. I now come back to another argument that has run through. Mart has also mentioned this repeatedly. That's the direct election of the president to the United States. There is no president in the United States. It was their fundamental decision because they do not follow monarchic traditions. In the United States, the President is called the Prime Minister of the country, who is directly elected, who forms his office, etc. And then there was another interesting argument: the people wanted one, but the constitution gave another. But that's the way it's supposed to be, that's the way it's supposed to be! Overcrowded metropolises, big cities are not morally superior to those farmers who plow, give bread, milk cows, who are those who feed on the table. If this two-step system disappeared in the United States, where the ordinary countryman has the right to say something, then it would be the absolute death of democracy in the United States. New York's 11 million folk artists, cultural figures, real estate agents, etc., cannot tell a farmer in the central states how to plow him. That's democracy, by the way. Enough for today, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U48	Thank you, Igor Gräzin, for expressing the clear positions of the Reform Party. Next, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I would like to ask Mr Andres Herkel for a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U49	Honourable representatives of the people! The two previous speeches were very good, but there was a great deal of talk about the fact that no matter how small a nuance we go to change the President's election procedure, we can be pretty sure that the talk will eventually go straight to the election. I can't get around it! I will try to speak within the framework in which the draft has been tabled. It seems to me that one of the most intrinsic questions was actually raised by Eiki Nestor when he asked Jüri Adams whether we should start by seeing what kind of presidential election we want to see. Do we want the President to be elected with the greatest possible consensus, as required by the requirement of a two-thirds majority in the Riigikogu, or should we be guided by the election of the President of the so-called majority vote? The last option is the electoral body, when the elections have arrived there, mostly it has happened, but you can see the miracle, this time it did not happen because of the white papers. And that is indeed an inherent question. Mr Adams also referred above to the fact that there are no funny examples of this kind, where there are two collections to elect the President, just as we will have an election assembly if the election in the Riigikogu fails. This move, if the election in the electoral body fails and then comes back to the Riigikogu, just as it has not been clearly described, but what else we had left, logically, we had to go this way. But here is indeed the contradiction that which we want, either the consensus candidate or the other one. The biggest problem with the past elections was, in my opinion, that candidates, political parties and, to a large extent, the media began to act as if Estonia really were directly electing the President, but not as if it were a very high consensus requirement in Parliament, which is quite different. The way it was, we saw it when the election had already returned. And the whole audience who watched this thing, so the Estonian people probably didn't understand what was going on in that black box anymore. They had been shown a situation close to the President's direct election, and then the President was elected as he was chosen, in essence, in Mr Nestor's office. It was certainly not clear to the people of Estonia that this was the case, although I think the final solution was very good. The question remains. However, I think that the question of whether we need a candidate for consensus or a candidate elected by majority votes can certainly be discussed further within the framework of the draft law that has been initiated. This solution is possible to go on the electoral board in the first place, and the solution is that the Riigikogu still chooses, but we lose this two-step system. All this is possible. This draft offers a minimum correction so that the election of the President by the electoral body can no longer fail, as has just happened. I call on the new coalition, which here yesterday, through the mouth of the candidate Prime Minister, to promise that the opposition's drafts will not just be rejected, left this bill in the process and go on with the subject. We have promised the coalition a cease-fire, and please show for your part that this new political culture is coming! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U50	Thank you. Is Henn Põllea a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U51	I have a wish to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U52	Only one speech can be given by political groups. On behalf of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U53	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, My introduction is like that of my colleague Gräzin, but I want to express the position of the Centre Party. The most important event of this year was, of course, the presidential rally: the failure at first in the Riigikogu, then on to the electoral team, then back to the Riigikogu and the president was there. There are two laws. If the most important law, Article 79 of the Constitution, had been chosen, the President of the Republic would now be Siim Kallas. But there is also another law that was subsequently passed, the Act on the Election of the President of the Republic. And there's a devilish word for 'all'. The winner must have the majority of all, I stress, all ballot papers, including those that have been damaged or not marked. Jüri Adams, the author of the Constitution has said that § 79 grew up as a compromise in the discussions of the Constitutional Assembly. There were three schools. First of all, there were advocates of direct selection. The most colourful of them was the beloved poet Hando Runnel, who has said that if the people were not given the chance to choose their president, then politicians would castrate their people. And politicians have already done it 12 times. The Centre Party and the EKRE have come up, now for the 13th time, with a direct election bill. Let's see how it goes, if we can castrate our people for the 13th time. The second school consisted of the members of the electoral council and the advocates of the election of the President in the third Riigikogu. In the end, § 79 was put together from the opinions of the B and C schools, so the electoral body and Riigikogu remained the election seat. This means that the primary role of the Riigikogu in the election of the President is the primary responsibility of the Riigikogu, i.e. the secondary electoral body, i.e. when the matter fails in the Riigikogu. I repeat, the electoral body should be the closing point for the elections. This has also been made clear by the author of our constitution, the esteemed birthday child Jüri Adams. And as Jüri Adams has said, the Constitutional Assembly did not think that election could fail in the electoral body. The same word 'of all' is the root of the evil that the founder of the Constitution has now wanted to correct in the President of the Republic's Election Act. At the same time, the Government of the Republic, the previous government, has said that it is unconstitutional. So it's a very interesting discussion, is it unconstitutional? According to Jüri Adams, this assessment should be made by us here, not by leaving it as part of the respected judges of state. Finally, I repeat here that the Central Party Group and ladies and gentlemen of the EKRE are in favour of the School of Direct Election of the President of the Republic. I hope we don't cut off our people's eggs for the 13th time. In any case, this proposal by Jüri Adams and the Free Party to correct the mistake is, in my opinion, sympathetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U54	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, I will conclude the negotiations. The commission's proposal is to reject draft 294 at first reading, and we will go to the vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 26 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, 32 against, 2 abstentions. The draft will remain in order. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 6 December at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we have closed the second item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U55	Let's keep going. The third item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance initiated by the Committee on Social Affairs. I ask Monika Haukanõmme, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We now come from the high and emotional level of the President to the human level, and that is to the level where people can sometimes be caught between the cogs of the law. This is where I am honoured to introduce you to the draft Act amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, which amends the procedure for obtaining insurance benefits in case of redundancy, in particular, extends the circle of entitled persons who may submit such applications. On 5 May this year, Chancellor of Justice addressed Ülle Madise to the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Social Affairs, which drew attention to the unjustified obstacle arising from subsection 143 (1) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, which may result in the loss of insurance benefits in the event of an employer's malicious behaviour. Under the current regulation, the employer must submit a formal application to the unemployment fund within five calendar days of the end of the employment or service relationship. However, if the employer does not do so, the redundant person cannot receive the corresponding benefit because the unemployment fund is unable to process the citizen's application, even if the fact of redundancy is known to the unemployment fund. Insurance compensation in the event of redundancy shall be one of the three benefits paid to the redundancy worker, who may be either an employee or an official, in the event of unemployment. This regulation came into force on 1 July 2009, almost eight years ago, and at that time such a solution could be justified. This means that the employer had to submit an application for insurance benefit in case of redundancy. This ensured that the unemployment fund received all the information on the basis of which it was possible to decide whether to receive an insurance benefit. At the moment, however, there is reason to believe that the unemployment fund will receive the information necessary for its decision in other ways. In particular, the unemployment fund has the right to receive data from all state and local government institutions and their databases, as well as from the insured person, the employer, the job seeker, the unemployed person and the claimant, in order to achieve his or her objective, if the data is not restricted by law. On 1 July 2014, the Employment Register was introduced, which also includes data on employment, i.e. the beginning and end of employment and the reason for the termination of employment. The unemployment insurance database contains, among other things, information on the insurance status of the person insured against unemployment. In addition, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board must also submit the information necessary for obtaining and granting unemployment benefit under the Unemployment Insurance Act to the unemployment fund. If the employer unduly refuses to submit the application required by § 143 (1) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, the unemployment fund has no other option than not to pay compensation to the redundancy worker. He can't make the decision. This, however, makes the redundant worker's right to receive insurance benefits directly dependent on the employer's behaviour. In principle, in such a situation, it is, of course, possible to go to court against the employer, but this means additional costs for the redundant worker and postpones the period of insurance benefit to an even more distant future. In summary, if the employer does not submit the application, the current law does not clearly state how the person receives the insurance benefit in the event of redundancy and may lose it. It is therefore difficult to find a justification for the current situation, which allows only the employer to submit an application for an insurance benefit in the event of redundancy. Allow me now to present, very briefly, the amendment to the law. Already § 46 of the Constitution guarantees everyone the right to apply to the authorities of the state or local governments. However, it should be taken into account that a person can submit an application and/or apply for an administrative act only if it is in his or her own interest. Therefore, the purpose of the amendment is to ensure legal clarity as to how an employee and an official can receive the insurance benefit provided for in the Unemployment Insurance Act in the event of redundancy even if their employer has not submitted an application to the unemployment fund. Even after the change has been made, the employer retains the primary obligation to submit the application. However, if he does not submit it for any reason, the draft lays down the conditions and procedures for applying for the employee's and the official's insurance benefit, a list of the information to be included in the application, and extends the period for examining the application to the application to be made by the staff member and the official. If the Riigikogu supports this amendment, the Act will enter into force on 1 January 2017. The Government of the Republic discussed this draft at its meeting on 13 October and decided to support it. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act at the meeting of 15 October 292, where the draft was presented by the Adviser of the Employment Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Õie Jõgiste. As the issue has been introduced in the Committee on Social Affairs by Ülle Madise, Chancellor of Justice in addition to the Bõie Rivers, the members of the committee agreed to the amendments to the draft and did not submit any further questions. There was no wide-ranging debate either. In view of the above, the Committee on Social Affairs took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 22 November, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 6 December 2016, i.e. 10 working days. Monika Haukamm, vice-president of the Commission, was appointed rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U57	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Very good law in itself. Can you tell how many people are affected? How many cases per year do entrepreneurs usually fail to send papers to the unemployment fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U59	Thank you for your question. Fortunately, there are not many such cases. It was said that in a good case they can be listed on the fingers of one hand in two or three years. Yeah, it's not that much, but if we have one of those cases and one person gets caught in the gears, then we still have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U60	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 292 be terminated. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 292 amendments, including 6 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U61	We will proceed to the last, fourth item on the agenda today: the first reading of the draft Act 293 on Supplementation to Health Services, initiated by members of the Riigikogu, Mark Soosaare, Helmen Küti, Jüri Jaanson and Andres Metsoja. I ask Mark Soosaare, a member of the Riigikogu, to present a report!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill, too, is unizoned by looking at the heights of human eyes. Let me remind you how Ülle Madise put it on all of us in early autumn, talking about the same remote control, that if there is a single person who needs to amend or amend the law or even his own law, we should be brave because there may actually be a lot of people behind this one person who do not report themselves. So it happened that this summer the members of the Riigikogu visited Helmen Kütt, Jüri Jaanson, Andres Metsoja and the speaker here together with Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski visited Madis Veskimägi, a family doctor in Tõstamaa. We all admired the equipment of a family doctor who had supplied himself with an X-ray apparatus, an ultrasound apparatus, and several instruments of eye diagnostics. And he's been dealing for years with what the current law unfortunately doesn't allow, that is, he's been very operationally and very professionally dealing with the initial diagnostics of specialist medical care. When a pussy comes from the country or a schoolboy with a swollen knee, he does not have to be sent to Pärnu for an X-ray 50 kilometers away. Madis will take him to his X - ray machine and find out if the patient needs to be transferred to an ambulance or if he can leave him for home treatment. Modern technology allows you to take samples and take electronic pictures, either with an X-ray apparatus or with an ultrasound apparatus, pass them on to specialists in a central hospital, and within a few or three minutes you can get an answer from a highly qualified specialist on how to proceed. This technology is particularly important in remote villages and islands beyond the forest, where there are problems with bringing patients to the hospital. So there's a bill on your desk that gives family doctors the right to also deal with the initial diagnostics of specialist medical care. In August, we thought it was about one or two people, but it turns out there are still more. Diana Ingerainen, who runs the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and works in a pretty decent large family doctor center in Õismägi, has informed us that the Estonian Association of Family Doctors supports this bill and they are looking forward to its adoption as soon as possible. The draft does not impose an obligation on any family doctor to carry out diagnostics of specialist medical care, but gives those who have such competence and equipment the right to provide this service. This draft does not require financial investment at this stage either, but, I repeat, seeks to give family doctors the rights that make them equal with other Nordic family doctors, many of whom already have the opportunity to do so. It also responds to the call made in 2010 by the Austrian European Radiologists' Association that European family doctors should also deal with radiological diagnostics. This will speed people up to get to specialist doctors. At the same time, it certainly shortens the order of the specialist doctor. Having been communicating with ophthalmologists over recent years because of their eyes, I have heard that about 60 to 70%, some doctors believe that even 80% of people who apply to an ophthalmologist could be able to solve their eye problems at the level of a family doctor. And we know the cases where you can get to specialist doctors sometimes in six months' time. So some people go into the world before they get to a specialist. Since I am here in the Riigikogu for the last few days, I would like to urge all of you, colleagues, to have this bill become a law this year. This is not only necessary for Madis Veskimägi, but quite a number of family doctors are looking forward to the law giving them the right to do what they are able to do. I would like to point out that in Article 14 (1) and (2) of the Health Services Organisation Act, we, the initiators, have added only two tiny words. In this long line, what a general doctor, or family physician, can do, we added the words 'diagnosis of medical care'. The text of paragraph 3 has been sent by the Ministry and concerns radiology services. Here, as initiators, we agree with the government that these requirements are a little more stringent and must be met by everyone who has the opportunity to use X-ray techniques. By the way, most dentists take X-rays of your teeth and have not passed a four-year residency at the University of Tartu to study as a radiologist. Why not have the same right for family doctors who acquire this competence when they are trained? Yes, the problem now is that such courses are not organised in Estonia. Agramas can go to other countries, our neighbouring countries, where they can acquire the necessary skills more quickly. We hope that the corresponding courses will be opened at the University of Tartu. I also want to put the heart of the lawmakers in this hall so that you can look at our legal texts. By working with the same § 14, we found that there are several compatibility errors that cause very serious questions in Estonian, we do not understand where the base is and where the saying is. This whole law needs a thorough review, and the Government of the Republic is working on it. In fact, the first level of medical care, which is referred to as general medical care, and the second level of medical care, i.e. specialist medical care, is in the language spoken by our doctorate, but there is no reference in law itself to the primary level and to the second level. In the European area of justice, we are talking about the first and second levels. There are many other ways to say, paradoxes or misunderstandings in the law. A regular thinks it's the family doctor who gives general medical attention, and then there's some sort of specialist doctor. But according to our law, the family doctor is actually a specialist. According to this law, a family doctor is a specialist who is not allowed to provide specialist care. I don't know what philologists call such counters, but this type of thing can easily happen if there's a few words written in the law. Therefore, the initiators have presented the entire text of the paragraph in the draft and underlined new words and parts of the text in order to allow an adequate assessment of the improvements in this Chamber and in the committees, and to see how they fit into our legal space. Thank you for your attention. Any questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U63	Thank you. Yes, indeed, you also have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U64	Good manager! Good waitress! You've dealt with such small but important things, even though the small island bill was rejected. The current regularisation of the active activities of the family doctor is also very sympathetic. Where can this greatest opposition to a sensible proposal come from? If somewhere in the woods there is an enterprising person with diagnostic facilities to provide specialist medical care, why can't he put them into practice? Is it such a bureaucratic opposition that some are family doctors, general doctors and others are specialised doctors, and one does not have to come to the other's closet, or is this opposition somewhere else? Or is there no opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U65	Peter, it's been a pleasure working with you here in the Riigikogu. Since you are an educational biologist, you know that in nature, the disappearance, decline, or chirping of some species is never due to one cause. There are sometimes dozens, even dozens, of reasons, whether it be nature conservation or health care. Here are the same issues that changing one detail doesn't change anything yet, but we have to start somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U66	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good Mark! This initiative is very sympathetic and correct. But do you have any insight into the number of family doctors who could really find support for this amendment and who are interested in it themselves? How do family doctors, such as the family doctors' association, view this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U68	The family doctor's association welcomed this amendment. Madis Veskimägi is really a lonely narrator, but at the same time he's not some crazy wolf from behind the woods trying to make a difference. He works 24 hours a week at the ER at Pärnu Hospital. He lectures on how a family doctor can provide small - surgery services, which he should not actually do. Gradually, family doctors have begun to turn themselves in, interested in the matter. The health centre of Õismäe, which is chaired by Mrs Diana Ingerainen, is very interested, and where the same problem as the draft is raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U69	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Mark, first of all, thank you for taking the subject and inviting us all to the Tõstamaa together! We received a very brief message. They talked about how things really were, and the minister himself was there. My question to you is this: what do you think this signal will give the other way back when the Ministry says that it will still stand on the shelf, stand on hold, and there will be no solution? As members of the Riigikogu, we try to carry this carriage, but the result is still one big disappointment for the citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U71	Thank you for a good question. The participants are all legislators, and the Government of the Republic is executive. Whether the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp or not depends on the Riigikogu itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U72	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. I would now like to ask for a presentation by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Aivar Koka.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U73	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft on 15 November, including. Mark Soosaar, the initiator's representative, presented to the Commission draft Act 293 supplementing § 14 of the Health Services Organisation Act, which seeks to extend the rights of general practitioners providing general medical care by allowing them to carry out initial diagnostics of specialised medical care and the use of radiation equipment, if appropriate, when a radiology technician and radiologist is involved. The aim of the amendment is to make general medical care more effective and effective, thereby reducing the burden on doctors providing specialist medical care. Kaija Luka, adviser to the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Ülle Jordan, head of the same department, and Mark Soosaar, member of the Riigikogu, were also invited to the meeting of the committee. The members of the Commission asked a number of questions. As of today, one radiologist and one family doctor are among the family doctors who offer such a service. It is certainly important that family doctors also have the opportunity to provide diagnostic services if they have an interest in it. And since the state invests a great deal of money in health centres, it is important to review whether it is possible to set up an X-ray machine in all health centres where family doctors work. When we asked the representatives of the ministry about this, it turned out that this was unfortunately not the case in the projects that have already been dealt with. We also had a suggestion that, if the draft is to be developed further, we should certainly look at the two sides. One's a financial side. It is important that the Health Insurance Fund reviews that the money that family doctors currently have for research is not lost when they do the research themselves. On the other hand, the Ministry must make sure that it is financed in new health centres with a desire to provide diagnostic services. The Commission took four consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 22 November, to propose the completion of the first reading and to set ten working days for the amendments and to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U74	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U75	Honorable manager! Respectable waitress! I'm sorry if this isn't directly related to the bill, but one sentence in your current brief review has prompted us to ask. Can you tell me how much the X-rays that family doctors could use cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U76	A proper X-ray machine costs EUR 200000. The kind of x-ray machine Mark Soosaar used to visit costs 300,000 to 600,000, but as I understand it, the program needs to be replaced. The cost of modern X-ray equipment actually starts with EUR 200000. It is certainly not cheap, and that is why I said in my report that all decisions must be considered and discussed at the Health Insurance Fund. The purchase of each diagnostic device means that the number of tests is increasing. One way or another, it's good and important how many things can be done by a family doctor and why you don't have to go to a big hospital. On the other hand, the family doctor also has diagnostics and research money in his bounty. Now the situation must not arise that the family doctor is doing his research, but if the patient needs to be sent somewhere else, there is no more money. This is the place that the Ministry and the Health Insurance Fund have to discuss. Before the second reading, we also call on the Commission to ensure that family doctors understand the matter in the same way, because the draft clearly states that this is not an obligation but an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U77	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U78	Good manager! Good waitress! In a small country like Estonia, legislation should be very flexible. If, for example, a family doctor behind the forest wants to get something to do his job better, he should not be prevented, but also not every family doctor behind the forest should be obliged to get expensive diagnostic tools. But how much has the Social Affairs Committee been discussing the fact that we have two kingdoms, one is the kingdom of family doctors, and the other is that of specialised doctors? How do you make these things work in Estonia's legal space today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U79	Thank you, Peter, for a good question. The health care system has become more generalized year after year. It is desirable that we get initial and important help at the family doctor's, and if there is no help or something more difficult, then we should move on. How many family doctors want this opportunity? Now, these are the lonely ones, but I agree with Mark Soosaar that there should be a chance. However, this possibility also involves a duty. It's not that easy to set up an X-ray machine. X-rays always laugh that they have precious metal rooms. It's not like any room can have an X-ray set up. When it was invented in the last century, hands were taken on the street in Tartu. Now we know that it is not so simple that this radiation is not healthy. Today's bill gives us an opportunity, but doesn't make an obligation. This amendment must certainly be discussed with all the parties involved, and so far the Social Affairs Committee has had a tradition that things are being negotiated with all parties, and everyone's opinion is being taken into account as much as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-22_U80	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? The lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 293 be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 293 amendments, including 6 December at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted and the sitting closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.56 a.m.
