ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 4th working week Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U2	Good chairman of the sitting! Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Central Party Group, I will hand over a draft decision of the Riigikogu proposing to the Government of the Republic that the state funding of upper secondary school students' studies in the B-grade course of the driving school be limited to 450 euros. The draft provides that the State shall reimburse the cost of the initial course at the end of this course on the basis of a certificate of training.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U3	I'm sorry! Colleagues, attention! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U4	The proposal aims at increasing the competitiveness of young people in the labour market, increasing traffic awareness and broadening their choice of place of residence. Estonia's rural areas are often scattered and public transport connections there are not sufficient. This, in turn, makes it difficult to live on land without the possibility of using a car. The possibility of using a car ensures greater mobility, also extending the choice of a place to live, so that our young people can still live in the countryside. The bill was born on the basis of my meetings with young people. This draft is an understanding by young people of how they think the state could help them to be more successful. This is also one of the reasons why we, the good members of the Riigikogu, should adopt this bill as a law and thus lend a helping hand to young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U5	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Public Administration Arto Aasa, signed by five members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Inquiry is state-political, state-economic and state-philosophic. This concerns the State Support Services Centre established by the State and its activities. If we look at the analysis of the state's tasks and the objectives set out in it, we can see very clearly that the State Support Services Centre has already been made redundant and will continue to bring together the personnel accounting, payroll and all such general support functions of a large number of state institutions and ministries. Our questions, which are a total of five, concern the current operational and management costs of the State Support Services Centre, as well as the wage costs, the growth of its staff and the general philosophy of the state. We wonder if it has been forgotten that it is important to maintain the specificities of many institutions and people's skills and other talents in one country in order to develop people's capital when applying for savings in a country's household. We have five questions that are of fundamental importance. Let us hope that Arto Aas will respond very meaningfully to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U7	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U8	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am giving an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, on the policy of the prosecutor's office in punishing immigrants. The media have shown that the Estonian authorities detained the Sudanese citizen Mukhamad Ibrahim Uthmani, who entered the territory of the country without interruption in 2013. This character has been exposed to police interest on several occasions, but the prosecutor's office has stopped investigating his physical assault without any punishment, as a result of a lack of public interest. That is why we are asking the Minister how he will comment on the fact that it seems to the private citizen that the penal code has become optionally applicable, depending on the colour of the human skin and the priorities of government policy. What procedural procedures did the prosecutor's office apply before the case was closed? Are there any obligations or burdens imposed on that person in connection with the arrangement procedure? On what basis was the lack of public interest decided? We believe that the crimes involving immigrants, on the contrary, are the subject of increased public attention. We know that asylum and asylum seekers are being expelled in several countries if they have committed a crime or misdemeanour. Does the fact that the case was closed save this person from being expelled from Estonia? Are there plans to abolish the status of a violent refugee? If not, why? We have a few more questions about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U9	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U10	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request from six members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski. Inquiry concerns the situation of access to hospital care. Although this year's social tax is expected to be well received in the state budget, it does not help in any way to improve people's access to treatment. It is known that sometimes people who need a certain operation may be in line for a year and a half. Yesterday, I heard from a phone call that this guy's line is even longer. We are asking whether this situation will continue or whether people will receive hospital care and surgery at the right time. On this subject, we have four questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U11	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U12	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of our group, I will report to the Minister of the Interior on illegal immigrants in the Republic of Estonia. The media have shown that in 2013 the Estonian authorities detained a Sudanese citizen who had entered the country unhindered, crossing the country's control line. He applied for asylum, probably to get away from expulsion. Today he has received both a residence permit and a work permit. On the basis of these facts, we ask the Minister to answer our questions in accordance with § 139 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. Why was this person granted refugee status when he entered the country illegally and allegedly made false statements about himself? As far as we know, he's committed a number of irregularities. We still have a number of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U13	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I will report an inquiry to Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal about the ferry ticket online sales centre. As we know, almost everything about this ferry supply is extremely confusing and shameful. The same goes for the ferry ticket sales system. In 2012, Tuule Ticket Centre OÜ and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications signed an agreement that the ticket selling system would be delivered free of charge to the State. The country had put EUR 2.8 million into the system, yet the country now spent nearly EUR 1 million to develop the new ticket system. The former system has not been captured by the state. In addition, Leedo has sued the State for damages amounting to EUR 400000. We therefore have a number of questions. What's going on around this thing? We hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure will have sufficient intelligent answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U15	More inquiries... Yes, government representative Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Rescue Act and the Police and Border Guard Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law on ratification of the Paris Agreement. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U17	No one now really wants more drafts or enquiries. I have adopted four drafts and five inquiries on behalf of the Bureau. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's do a presence check, please! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U18	Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have an item on the agenda, the first reading of the draft Act 253 amending the Social Tax Act, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Martin Helme, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U19	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft is Paragraph 6 (1) (11) of the Social Tax Act, which is amended as follows: '11) one working parent living in Estonia who raises three or more children living in Estonia, at least one of whom is under 19 years of age.' What does that mean, and what does it change? The draft is necessary to extend the range of persons for whom the state pays social tax. The aim is to create economic security for families with children, so that raising children in a family rich in children is more under the special care of the country. An elder who wants to be at home with his children and devote himself to raising children could do so in a safer environment in the future. The current provision of the Act on the basis of which the State pays social security contributions for a parent who is not in employment and who raises three or more children under the age of 19, at least one of whom is of preschool age or under the age of 8, is now amended to take account of all children until they reach their adult age. What does that mean more specifically? This means that the state pays the health insurance premium for this parent, which means that the parent has health insurance. If this was the case now only when at least one child was under eight years old, then it would now be that way until the children were of age. The biggest problem in Estonia is the declining birth rate and population. As a result, the population is ageing and the potential for recovery is deteriorating. In the long run, the rapid decline of the population calls into question all our achievements. To address the problem, it is necessary to use a package of measures to make the tax system and the system of subsidies fairer and take into account the contribution made to society in raising children. For years, there has been insufficient search for anti-depopulation measures in Estonia. The consequences are here: the birth rate is just over 1.5 children per woman of childbearing age. Emigration is great and, in essence, we are now on the extinction course. The fall in ambition threatens the sustainability of the population, including the economy and security of the country. The modern population model speaks of wholesale dependence, i.e. economic environment, home, media work, domestic and foreign security is important. Population scientists believe that the birth rate has an impact on 17 to 18 areas, all of which need attention. The development of such complex solutions requires cooperation between political parties and society as a whole. This draft deals with only one small aspect of solving this complex problem, but an important aspect. Now the cost. The current provision covers around 1500 people and has a public budget cost of around EUR 2 million. According to the calculations of the Conservative People's Party Group, if the change took effect, the number of people would roughly double and the additional cost would be between 1.5 and 2 million. There are 17443 parents in Estonia who have three or more children up to 19 years of age at home. But, as I said, most of them work, perhaps this particular discount is currently being used by about one and a half thousand people. Here it will certainly be said later that the calculation of the Ministry of Finance shows a much, much higher cost. But the Ministry of Finance has approached very technically, it has taken the "maximum number," multiplied by the sum, and now it says that this is the total cost. We see no reason to think that all these people will stay home overnight; it is simply not realistic. As far as we are concerned about whether we need to take into account any of the Euro Directives here, we do not. Let me briefly summarise. I think that is what we in the Commission were talking about, too, because raising children is a very big and important job. It doesn't stop when the kids go to school. I have three teenagers at home, and I can see very well that they also need to be raised very much. A situation where parents are often forced to choose to go to work instead of being at home with their children is often due to their fear of losing health insurance. As a result, they also go to some jobs where perhaps no big money is paid, and they cannot raise children at home. Work is simply to provide health insurance. This amendment would give parents who want it the opportunity to raise their children at home without losing their health insurance. I call on everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U20	Thank you. You have questions. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group. We are being promoted to overcome the gap in bringing people in from elsewhere, immigration being like a solution to our problems. Would this bill also provide for this benefit for people who have received refugee status, who have received asylum applications and who often have more than three or even more than four children?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U22	Thank you. Estonian laws do not make a difference here. If you have a residence permit and a residence permit in Estonia, all tax benefits apply to you, that is true. We have seen what has happened in Finland, Sweden, Germany and England, where benefits have been granted to the indigenous people, but then people from other cultural spaces, who have a very different behaviour, have also arrived. We know this story when a man in England took out grants on behalf of his husbands. He had eight husbands and dozens of children. Yeah, things like that have happened elsewhere. The solution, of course, is not that we are going to make a distinction between who gets support and who does not receive support, but that the solution is a conservative immigration policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U23	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U24	Thank you. You said it was a small but important component of one big, holistic plan for our children. You said it would generate EUR 2 million in expenditure in the state budget. I would like to ask whether the costs of getting their mothers back into the labour market later, i.e. re-training and adapting to work, have been included here, all of the costs of getting people on the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U25	Thank you. The return of people to employment usually does not involve expenditure from the state budget. The draft still takes account of state budget expenditure in particular. I understand that the point of the question is that if people have been absent from the labour market for a long time, they often receive training from the unemployment fund and other such things. No, it's not included here. This would not be possible in my opinion either, because the reasons why people are away from the labour market are not just about children. In any case, we need labour market flexibility to solve the problem of the problem. In the short term, if people fill our labour market, where the number of workers is decreasing, the state budget can benefit. But if its price is decreasing or still below the rate of re-production, we will still be in bankruptcy in the long run.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U26	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U27	Good manager! Good waitress! The state is currently paying social tax for the parent raising children at home, and the condition is that one of these guys must be under 8 years old. What is the reason for this restriction that one child must be under 8 years old, which you want to eliminate?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U28	The reason is that a child does not grow up when he or she turns 8, 9 or 10. Raising children doesn't stop when they go to school. On the contrary, if you have three or more children who all go to school, they often have even more work to do with them than with young children. I can tell you that clearly from my personal experience. We have four children at home, one is small and the rest go to school. Indeed, raising children does not stop when they start going to school. Pulling this limit to eight years of age may be reasonable in terms of the state budget, but it doesn't make any sense in terms of family development.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U29	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to present Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The debate on the draft law amending the Social Tax Act 253 before the first reading was held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 27 September. Initiator, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme presented the purpose of the draft. The initiator explained to the members of the committee, as he has just done in this Chamber, that the legislative amendment contributes to the growth of the child and enables the parent who wishes to do so to devote himself exclusively to raising children. The draft aims to amend the Social Tax Act so that the state pays social tax for an inoperative parent of a family of at least three children until the youngest child reaches the age of 19. According to the current law, the state pays social security contributions for a parent who is not in employment and who raises three or more children under the age of 19, of whom at least one is under the age of 8. This is the point on the list of special cases of the Social Tax Act. The Commission also heard the Government of the Republic's position on this draft. On 30 June, the Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft and the Commission was informed of the reasons. The first reason is that the impact on the state budget is greater than the forecast in the draft under consideration. I will read you a quote from this recital: 'Such families, where one of the parents is not working and has raised at least three children and the youngest children have not yet turned 19, are in Estonia 19779. (It doesn't shake a bit, because children turn 19 every day. U. T.) By excluding the target groups of the current law, the number of people insured by this bill would be 8411 people and the impact on the state budget would be EUR 14.1 million in 2017. ' The explanatory memorandum of the draft under consideration estimates EUR 1.5 to 2 million. I admit that Mr Helme rightly mentioned that not all parents would automatically stay home, but these are forecasts. With regard to the social impacts, the government's view is that the analysis has been limited. In its opinion to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Government of the Republic notes that the draft promotes the long-term exclusion of parents raising children from employment and thus reduces the long-term livelihood of families with children. The impact on the objective of increasing the birth rate is rather minor, as the majority of the support would go to support the inactive parents of older children. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs because it is a matter of financial, social tax, although it relates to matters falling within the remit of the Committee on Social Affairs, so the Committee on Monetary Affairs also focused on issues relating to employment. The impact of the draft on the return of the parent at home to work was discussed and how this will affect the flexibility of the labour market. The opinion was expressed that the draft would make it difficult to get back into the labour market and perhaps reduce the motivation to return to it. But the initiator stressed that the parent raising the child should have a choice whether or not to stay at home. If the parent wants to commit exclusively to raising children, the state must give him this opportunity, which was the counter-opinion of the initiator of the draft. The differences in forecasting the financial impact were further discussed. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, who attended the meeting of the Commission, explained that their calculations are based on Statistics Estonia's data and that all families raising three children are taken into account when one parent is at home and one child is under 19 years of age. Paragraph 6 of the Social Tax Act currently in force provides for the obligation of the State to pay social tax on a person "automatically' without the person making the request. These were topics for discussion. Then the Commission made decisions. It was decided that the Commission's rapporteur would be me, Urve Tiidus. It was decided that the draft would be on the agenda of the plenary on 11 October, or today. The procedural decision is that on 27 September the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to propose that the draft be rejected. There were 6 members in favour of the decision, 4 against and 1 abstention from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'll finish this and wait for questions if there are any.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U31	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are indeed questions for you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Technical error, I got a phone on the keyboard.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U33	Got it. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Was the Commission not concerned that, in the future, there might be no more workers to move to the labour market? I understand that the Commission was deeply concerned that some people are currently not entering the labour market. But wasn't there any concern that the labour market would lose people at all, and wasn't it meant to be able to help here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U35	Thank you, Mr. Põldaru. That's a good question. The Committee on Monetary Affairs did not reach such generalisations this time. We are still discussing these issues, but this time it was specifically about whether the parents of children under the age of 19 have to move to the labour market or whether it is better if they are all at home or at least have a chance to be at home. We discussed it. Of course, the number of children in Estonian society is a much-emphasised topic. I don't think it's gonna be another day that a lot of people don't think about it. But children are still born out of love, after all, there must be more love.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U36	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U37	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good waitress! My question is not very directly relevant to the Commission's debate, although in fact we briefly addressed this issue there. I think it is wrong to contrast work and raising children at home, both of which are important. But which, in your opinion, is more important to society, either to work or to raise children?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U38	Thank you very much for the kind of philosophical question that it is more important to go to work or to raise children! Raising children, raising the next generation, caring, caring and teaching is undoubtedly the key. I recall the Chinese proverb that if you want a 10-year result, plant a tree, but if you want a 100-year result, teach or raise children. I wouldn't really oppose these things because everything is connected. We are looking at women today, after all, more women are associated with being at home and raising children; they have become more and more capable of committing themselves. Men have also motivated these opportunities. So I think both are important, but the kids are important. I wouldn't lose any importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U39	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U40	Good manager! Good waitress! I am a member of the Estonian population support group, but I do not remember having discussed it. But you said that if the state paid social tax for the parent at home, it would make it more difficult to return to the labour market. Explain to me a little bit more exactly how this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U41	Thank you, Mr. Peter Ernits. I told you about what the Committee on Monetary Affairs was discussing. If social tax is paid for people who, for example, have three children who are up to 19 years old and who are all teenagers, 16 or 17 or 19 years old, or whatever the way it is, I think it might make things easier for some people, because caring for them is a serious job and 24 hours a day, which I do not argue with. But it makes it harder to get back into the labour market in the sense that it gives a kind of message that you may not even be needed in the labour market, that the state will pay that tax for you. How do I say that? In some ways, society must also motivate people to return to the labour market. This image or concept of a woman as a housewife may still belong to it in the early 20th century, nothing to do. I think that this change would not in itself make it difficult to return to the labour market, but I rather presented the position that the Ministry of Finance had drawn up for the Government of the Republic. I'll specify not to mislead you. This opinion was as follows: "As regards the social implications of the draft proposal, we note that the draft act promotes the long-term exclusion of parents raising children from employment and thus reduces the long-term livelihood of families with children. " That was the wording. Maybe the expression that makes it harder came from my lips.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U42	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U43	Mr. President! Good waitress! In your answers, you keep pointing out that in the 21st century, it is not as if such a very honorable and responsible activity as raising children would be appropriate. That's not true. If we treat it this way, there will soon be women with eight to ten children in towels all over Europe, and we will no longer have a place in this world. So this approach needs some revision. However, the question is whether the Commission was also talking about the added value of the increase in domestic consumption resulting from the birth of a child.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U44	Thank you very much, Mr. Mart Helme. First of all, you put some words in my mouth, I'm using the right to fix it. I certainly have not said that being at home with children is not suitable for the 21st century, rather your example of refugees relates to this issue. I said that having a woman at home all the time and a man at work all the time is not typical of social behavior in the western world in the 21st century. That's what I wanted to clarify. How it affects consumption behaviour, I don't have that kind of information right now. In fact, regardless of whether a person is at work or at home, he still consumes relatively similarly. Perhaps I did not understand your question exactly, in which case I would ask you to clarify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U45	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear colleague Urve Tiidus! It is exciting in this Chamber now, because the EKRE is trying to implement this draft in front of its refugee policy cart. But my thoughts moved into a completely different area. My generation started working from the age of 11 to 12, especially during the summer, for several months in a row, and so the family received a pretty good addition. With this draft, we are moving as in the other direction: even more in a comfort zone where it is as if young people could not take part in work or enter the labour market at all until they are of age. However, I will ask a specific question. Is the bill meant to be that this support will only disappear when the last children are 19 years old? Or will the benefit end when the number of children up to the age of 19 falls to two?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U47	Thank you very much for your question, Mr Soosaar. Your question concerns the wording of this draft. Siblin in my papers and I read from the draft submitted by the EKRE Group that Paragraph 6 (1) (11) of the Social Tax Act is amended and worded as follows: '11) one non-working parent living in Estonia who raises three or more children living in Estonia, at least one of whom is under 19 years of age.' According to the law, they are paid for by the state or by a legal person governed by public law. Indeed, I understand that at least one of the children is under 19. Until all three children have reached the age of 19, as long as the draft would be paid by the State or by a legal person governed by public law, this proposal is the state of the payer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U48	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U49	Thank you. To the previous questioner, it is rather the insane Euro Directives and standards that prevent children from working. My question, however, is this: money or children? Yesterday's President's speech was extremely sympathetic, he came back to raising children and children all the time, but I see that the government and ministries, as well as the Committee on Monetary Affairs, have put money and children on the table. It's very strange. As we read the preamble to our constitution, we see that the whole point of our country's existence is that we survive, our people survive and have enough children. All activities must be based precisely on this aspect. Is it really so far now that we are putting children or money at stake?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U50	Thank you, Mr. Pier. If you ask for my opinion, not the opinion of the Commission's rapporteur, I can say that I am quite rigid about the view that money cannot, however, buy children. If this money gives men greater confidence to start a family and have children, then you have to explain it to me. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this draft also on how this legislative amendment affects the balance of the state budget. According to the statistical data available, 8411 insured persons would be added, and I would emphasise once again that this figure will change in days, with an impact of EUR 14.1 million in absolute terms. If this law came into force and went into operation next year, it would have an impact of EUR 14.1 million. In the explanatory memorandum, the forecast amounts to EUR 1.5 to 2 million. It should have been asked more specifically by the initiator of the draft, for which reasons this amount was left below this of 14.1 million and how many people were left at home. This difference would suggest that a smaller proportion of those who belong to this group would remain at home. I think that this can be discussed further, but I am still presenting the Commission's views at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U51	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U52	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You will be asked quite a lot of substantive questions about raising children, going to work and everything that the Committee on Social Affairs is discussing. But the Committee on Monetary Affairs has just the cost side, i.e. the impact on the state budget. Did the Commission also have a deeper debate on this cost side? Here are the big scissors: 2 million versus 14.1 million. Did you see any approach here, an understanding of what the real cost to the state budget would be on the basis of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U53	Thank you, Mr. Jüri Jaanson. You have noted that the issues of child rearing, child rearing and the labour market fall within the area of the Committee on Social Affairs, but it is not bad in itself to be discussed by the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Now that we were essentially discussing the financial impact. However, the financial impact of the draft is calculated on the basis of the maximum impact. There is no way to think about how someone will act, whether, for example, only 50% will take advantage of the possibility that the state will pay the social tax, or 30% will do so. Although there is some probability of many people returning to the labour market and many staying at home, financial calculations must still be made according to the maximum impact on the state budget, nothing can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U54	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! Although several times these figures have been mentioned here, I will ask a more specific question. What is your own view, which is closer to the truth, 2 million or 14 million? There's still a seven-fold difference. You gotta start thinking about who knows how to count and who doesn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U56	Thank you, Mr Arno Bridge. I don't think there's any point in calculating a personal position or emotion here. On one side there are the calculations and figures of the initiator of the draft, on the other side there are the calculations and figures of the Ministry of Finance. However, the number of their families and children is based on national statistics. I wouldn't go this way to make some kind of probability assessment. Again, I am talking about who would go to work and who would stay home. I suppose a lot of women would be happy to stay home, but maybe men, today, that's quite an option. I would like to emphasise once again that, given the budgetary costs, account must still be taken of all the people in the target group. We can't draw a line here, so maybe half of them go to work or so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U57	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U58	Thank you. Dear waitress, After all, the old truth is that each assessment speaks of two things: the object to be assessed and the evaluators themselves. I'm a little worried about the other side. I understand that the arguments put forward by the Commission against this draft were very eclectic, at times based on a world view that developed at the end of the 19th century when the factory was at the heart of society, sometimes some propose it as appropriate for a later century. There was a little sign of the agrarian age here, and there was a little feeling that the war was just over, the children should be put to work and employment increased. Doesn't it seem to you from all this that this bill should not be voted down, but that things should be clarified? The whole argument in the scientific sense of society is here like mush and cabbages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U59	Thank you, Mr. Black! I always like it when scientists talk, because their arguments have weight. However, I stress that I am here as a Commission rapporteur and will pass on to you the Commission's procedural decisions and the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U60	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Yeah, you're a Commission waitress, but in the meantime, you're still giving up your opinion. For example, it sounded like money couldn't buy children. I argue, money buys kids, we do it, it's parental pay. When it began, even children were valued, namely, one mother received a minimum wage for her child, and the other one received 17 times more. That was the way it was at first. It was called very progressive. After that, the breakpoint came, and more children really began to be born. Does this current'money cannot buy children' target this policy? Don't you basically support parental pay anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U62	Thank you very much, Mr. Stalnukhin. You interpreted my sentence the way you felt right. I would like to remind you that parental pay was still introduced to compensate for the loss of income associated with the exclusion of young children from the labour market. That is one reason why I do not agree with your argument. I'm not gonna say anything here any longer. This is not the view that parental pay should not be continued. This is a very important support for young parents, just when their child is a young child. While scientific arguments have already come into play here, let us remember that being a parent's home is particularly important in the child's first and a half years of life, it would be good if it lasted three years. I belong to this generation who didn't receive parental allowance, but they also had children raised, but this is probably not the appropriate topic here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U63	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U64	Thank you. Dear waitress, What do we do in this opposition, we keep interpreting? You take all the decisions, we have to have the fun here, otherwise go and jump in the water, okay? Here the sentence was that the EKRE would implement this draft in front of its refugee policy cart. You basically didn't object.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U65	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U66	Silence is a sign of consent. But before which policy does this decision apply that the majority of the Commission, and probably the coalition as a whole, denies this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U67	Mr. Stalnukhin, what can I tell you? The Commission decided by 6 votes in favour to vote on this draft, 4 of its members were in favour of the draft and 1 abstention. So the majority was in favour of excluding this draft from the procedure. For all the rest of the questions, I think I can answer the next time I happen to be dealing with the same subject. Don't jump out the window!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U68	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Mart Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U69	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, everything in this Chamber becomes political, that is understandable, because we all represent different political agendas, views and perceptions. There is therefore, of course, nothing surprising about the fact that there have been such statements here that this draft was implemented in front of our refugee policy cart, etc. That's normal. But I want to stress that this bill is born out of deep concern for the future of our people. Of course, Urve Tiidus was right when he said that you, who said this, needed a whole package of measures to change the behaviour of our people, improve the quality of raising children, etc. We totally agree with that. The draft does not propose a whole package, which does not mean that there should not be a whole series of other drafts and proposals to complement it. I fully agree that maternity allowance in the form it is is a good undertaking. But I think there's something to be added to it. We're offering an extra one. We would offer something more, why not tax exemptions, why not income tax write-offs for every child born, etc. Let's put our heads to work together! That's why we're here to adopt laws that influence society's behaviour in a positive direction. I'm afraid I have to agree with the questioner who asked if we'd put the kids and the money on different weights. After all, the reasons for rejecting this bill relate to money. In fact, I absolutely cannot agree with the analysis of the Ministry of Finance, which has completely dullly and automatically taken into account all families with three or more children in Estonia and calculated the cost of just under 15 million. It's automatically derived, it's not true. I agree that maybe our calculated amount, just 2 million, is too small. But then let's take it through the middle and get six to eight million. Listen, people, which is 6 to 8 million, which is also 10 million out of the 8.6 billion-dollar budget of the Republic of Estonia! It's nothing. We are currently spending tens of millions of euros on receiving allies in Estonia, I do not say the exact amount; I do not want to say this here. Why are we making this expense? One reason is that we don't have our own soldiers. We have to feed foreign soldiers because we don't have our own soldiers. They are not because, among other things, we do not have the birth-rate, motherhood package that we urgently need. Don't reject this bill, we'll renegotiate it, make improvements, make improvements, don't act like a stupid roller! In particular, I am knocking on the conscience of the Socialists, because all social issues should primarily be your bread. It's a social issue, a sensitive subject. Finally, I find it deeply disturbing to try to knock on the conscience of those who speak naughty. Women aren't delivery machines, they say. Of course it isn't, but I don't think we're gonna be making a lot of test tube babies yet. My mother used to remember the golden words. There was a very sweet child, a Russian mother's child... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U70	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U71	And my mother said, "Oh, what a lovely child! Where did that come from? ' The mother of this child answered her (I now violate the Rules of Procedure and tell you in Russian): 'Iz tech vorot, try ves narod. " That is right, we have all come from the gates from which all the people have come. People don't come from other gates. We have to value motherhood. My mother had another golden saying. If something was very expensive, he said he wasn't more expensive than money. Kids, too, you can tell them they're not more expensive than money. If it costs $10 million, if it costs $20 million, we'll find the money. Question to the big circle: how much did the bankruptcy of Estonian Air cost? The question to the big circle is, how much has it cost for this unfortunate ferry mess? How much have many other foolishness cost? Hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros. We find this money and signal that we value children, motherhood and raising children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U72	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U73	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, We support this bill and I did not intend to come to this remote control, but I would still like to say a few words to this debate. You see, in the old China, not so long ago, officials who had taken bribes were punished by being pulled over their ears, literally physically. Afterward, it was stuffed with leather and hung on the ceiling in the same office where the official had taken the bribe, that is, at his workplace. It meant they took the skin off the judge who had made the wrong decision for the money, and then his successor came and worked under it. It had even been such a crazy case that the new official became the son of a punished officer who then sat under his father's cloak. Why am I talking about this? Actually, I think I could use a top in this hall, too. Somewhere on the wall could be this unfortunate Estonian Air, just a reminder. There could be a logo or a symbol hanging here. Every time I hear again that a coalition representative starts to explain to the opposition who does not have such a mechanism in ministries, government, offices, offices, as the coalition does, that the calculations of the opposition are not entirely accurate, for example, 2 million, but probably 1,8 or 2,13 or something like that, it would be good to show the Estonian Air side. What estimates were made when the Government of the Republic gathered in memory four times and, without documents and an explanatory letter, took decisions that were totally cold to the state for 79 million? There were no documents. Sometimes the government of the Republic did not even have such an item on the agenda. You came together, someone said, "Hey, you gotta give me some money." And they did. Read the National Audit Office's report on this. So we support this bill and we are extremely sorry that every time a smaller amount is involved, 40 times less than in the Estonian Air case in a particular case, this issue of calculations always comes up. Another marginal note. Of course, that jumping in the water was a joke. A religious person doesn't do that, but he has the right to throw someone else in the water, just in case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-11_U74	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 253 at first reading. We are going to vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal by the commission of reference to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 22 against, with 6 abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.05 a.m.
