ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-25_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 6th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Dear colleagues, allow me to wish you strength on the first working day of the Republic of Estonia in 99th! I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-25_U2	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to address the question on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group to Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The inquiry concerns the burning of wood pulp. The Auvere power plant cost the State EUR 638 million, and in order to ensure that the value of the plant in the current economic situation does not fall very sharply and to save the investments made, the government has allowed large quantities of wood to be used as raw material for the plant. Buying timber in large quantities will inevitably increase the price of timber across Estonia, especially in East and West-Viru counties. Both wood hunters and companies that use wood as raw materials are victims. The situation of companies is not made easier by the restrictions imposed by Russia on the export of its timber, which prevent imports of timber from Russia. The burning of wood pulp a few years ago increased the price of wood in Estonia by 15% in the middle and by 40% in Virumaa. Now we are talking about burning ten times the amount of wood that some companies have already stopped investments. Currently, the Auvere plant has been speculated on burning 3 to 5 million cubic metres a year. It should be taken into account that the current volume of felling in Estonia is 10 million cubic metres and that the increase in Estonian forest is approximately 12 million cubic metres, the portion of which is used, including logging waste, is only 8.4 million cubic metres. This means that logging may begin to exceed the growth of the forest. To the Minister, we have six questions to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-25_U3	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-25_U4	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-25_U5	We certainly welcome the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-25_U6	Greetings! I would like to hand over the draft law on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group. In particular, we want to change the procedure for disputes between housing associations. We've put in a similar bill before, it was about six months ago. There was an interesting discussion about this in this hall. At the same time, a number of shortcomings were referred to, which we tried to close in the new draft, complementing it. We are now re-transmitting the draft on this issue in order to continue the discussion. We hope that this time it will be better because, according to the feedback, it seems that such a law is really needed. The representatives of the housing associations have expressed a positive opinion on this draft. In short, let's try to get back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-25_U7	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-25_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, By quoting a former colleague, a former member of the Riigikogu and the Minister of Justice, Rein Lang, I say that I am now handing over a very good bill. Namely, three political groups, i.e. the IRL, the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party, are launching a draft law amending the Public Transport Act, which regulates an area characterised by high consumer demand in Estonia and worldwide. We're talking about the sharing economy, more specifically the sharing of the race and the trade. Estonia is probably one of the first countries in the European Union and the world in general to introduce this area so innovatively into its regulations and modernise its regulations. We are definitely one of the world's leaders in this area, if not the greatest leader. Thank you for your attention. More specifically, we will discuss this economic area at our conference conference on the collaborative economy starting at 12 o'clock. You're all welcome to listen. And once again, thank you to your colleagues who agreed to sign this bill. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-25_U9	Good fellows! There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's go through the presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-25_U10	Let's get to today's agenda. The first and only item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Bar Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 164 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 69 votes against 1 and 6 abstentions, the draft Act amending the Law on the Bar Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as 164 laws. This item is closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. Thank you and I wish you the strength of our work. Closure of the sitting at 10.08 a.m.
