ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the fifth working week of the third plenary session. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The seven members of the Free Party have an inquiry to Minister of Defence Hannes Hanso. It has to do with broad-based national defence. The public summary of the non-military parts of the State Protection Development Plan 2013 Regular exercises on civilian sector support will also be organised and the necessary contracts will be concluded for the use of civilian sector resources during crisis and war periods. The key words of the broad-based national defence of the development plan are, in our opinion, correct, but questions arise as the government has so far managed to develop broad-based national defence and strengthen the network. With a small territory and population, Estonia on the NATO border must use the free will of its citizens to contribute to security. To this end, effective systems must be put in place to improve the skills and knowledge and preparedness of the population. In addition, cooperation between the Defence Union and the Defence Forces with other authorities and parties to counter non-military threats, such as natural disasters, mass disorder and other major accidents, is important. We have six questions for the Secretary of Defense, but I am not going to stop at them exactly because time is running out. I'll hand over our questioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U3	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, we are submitting to the Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruus an inquiry into the situation of Estonian dairy industry. The ongoing crisis in agriculture has led to difficulties for many dairy farmers and processors. While at the end of 2014, according to the PRIA register of animals, there were 2311 dairy cows, the number decreased by 387 or 17% in a year. The increase in the number of graduates increased at the end of the year. During the last three months, 169 dairy farmers lost their production. The reason for the cessation of dairy cows and the reduction of herds is the Russian embargo, which started in August 2014. Since then, sufficient new markets have not been found. In the past, Estonian dairy companies have made commitments that are now difficult to meet. Many businesses are indebted to banks and, in order for companies to be able to hold their breath and pay their loans in the future, the banks have granted them a grace period during which they only pay interest on loans. However, the grace period granted by banks is running out and many companies are threatened with closure, which leaves a very large number of people in employment. It is therefore quite obvious that, without government intervention, the future activities of many dairy companies are under very serious question. All of this has led us to have five questions for the Minister for Rural Affairs, to which we are awaiting an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U6	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and 12 other members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester. Both Sven Sester and the politicians, together with him, have still spoken of a balanced budget. But let's look at the bill. According to the Ministry of Finance, last year the state received revenue of EUR 7.98 billion, while the costs amounted to EUR 8.33 billion. This means that the budget was over 4%, or EUR 350 million. The main reason for the deficit is, fortunately, a temporary shift in time between the disbursement of funds for projects with European support and the receipt of funds from European Union funds. By the end of December, EUR 370.9 million was received from the European Union and other institutions, but disbursements amounted to EUR 658.9 million. This justifies a deficit of EUR 288 million. But the rest of the deficit, which was 62 million euros last year, is worrying. A similar or even higher deficit of EUR 84 million is planned this year as well. That is why we have four questions for the Minister of Finance. Until now, such deficits have been covered by the reserve, but they are decreasing at a considerable rate. There have been many redundancies lately, and economists believe that a new recession is approaching. Has the Ministry of Finance already made a plan to cover such a deficit in the future in the event of a new economic crisis? We have two more questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U7	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U8	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I will report to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, on the question of providing school health services in general education schools. As of January and according to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, 25 schools with more than 2100 students are exposed to school health services. The aim of school health services is to monitor the health status of students, to shape a healthy lifestyle among students, to prevent the disease of students and the development of chronic diseases, to monitor the application of medically justified educational burdens and the creation of a healthy environment and, where appropriate, to provide first aid. We have four questions about how to deal with the situation at these 25 schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U9	I have accepted four inquiries. If they meet the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will pass them on to the Ministers. Checking for presence. There are 87 members of the Riigikogu, no 14. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the fifth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu were in favour, 2 against and 4 abstentions. The agenda for the 5th working week of the 3rd plenary session has been approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U10	First of all, we will discuss an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Karilaid, Peeter Ernits, Märt Sults, Erki Savisaar, Enn Eesmaa, Kersti Sarapuu, Tarmo Tamm, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Heimar Lenk, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassiliev, Aadu Must and Anneli Ott. In the name of the heirs, please, Jaanus Karilaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, On 11 January 2016, we submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal an inquiry into ferry traffic between the mainland and the islands in 2016 and 2017. One of the objectives of national regional policy is to ensure the quality of service provision in peripheral countries. According to best public administration practice, it is natural that the service offered to its citizens will not deteriorate but improve. The ferry connection to Saaremaa and Hiiumaa received more attention in 2014 when the public procurement contract was awarded to Tallinn Port subsidiaries for ferry traffic services from 1 October 2016. Marko Raid, Acting Chairman of the Tallinn Port Board, stated on 3 September 2015 that in the worst case scenario, the option of temporarily renting another ship is under consideration. Therefore, a member of the Management Board of AS Tallinna Port has doubts as to whether the ships will be completed by the deadline. We have a total of eight questions to which we expect meaningful answers from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U12	Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond with strength to the questioning of the members of the Central Party Group. I will also read out the question, as it is customary, and then the answer. The first question: 'Is the construction contracts for the four new ferries legally concluded and how do you justify this in the context of the Public Procurement Act and other regulations, and in the context of the situation where the European Commission has declared the State aid granted to Estonian Air illegal? How has the State ensured that the same prohibited state aid does not fall into the same situation as ferry traffic? " Paralleling the Estonian Air case is incorrect and unsubstantiated. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has organised a procurement procedure for the provision of ferry services. The joint offerers TS Laevad OÜ and TS Shipping OÜ have concluded a ferry service contract. The Ministry shall pay only for the provision of ferry traffic services. The fee shall consist of a cover of costs and a reasonable profit. The Ministry is not a party to the purchase agreement for passenger ships. The parties to the contracts for the construction of ships are TS Ships OÜ and the shipyard. The public ferry service contract concluded as a result of public procurement and the purchase agreement concluded for the purchase of vessels are two different legal relationships. The status of contracting authority of joint tenderers has been verified by the Ministry of Finance during the assessment of the need to initiate the national supervisory procedure. The position of the Ministry of Finance of 14 November 2014 is that TS Laevad OÜ, which has signed a contract for the design and construction of passenger ships, is not a contracting authority within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act, therefore no public procurement was organised for the purchase of ships. The Supreme Court has also dealt with this issue. The Supreme Court judgment of 2 December 2015 states that the statement made by Väinamere Liinid OÜ, i.e. the current carrier, regarding the involvement of the contracting authority and the joint supplier and the granting of State aid, is not justified. The Ministry of Finance has also analysed possible conflicts of interest on the basis of a request from Väinamere Liinid OÜ for the purpose of assessing the need to initiate a national supervisory procedure. As no irregularities were found, no monitoring procedure was initiated. The second question: 'Supporting (granting loans and guarantees, etc.) to state companies is considered to be State aid. The granting of State aid must be coordinated with the European Commission before State aid is granted. Has the state (if the sole shareholder of the Port of Tallinn of AS and the owner of TS Laevad OÜ and TS Shipping OÜ through it) acted proactively and informed the European Commission of the planned state aid? ' The issue of State aid has been addressed in disputes concerning ferry services and public procurement. According to the Supreme Court judgment of 2 December 2015, there was no reason to expect State aid in public procurement proceedings. Decisions declaring the tender of the joint tenderers to be admissible and successful have been declared legitimate. In this same decision, the Supreme Court states that in this case the contracting authority was not required to have doubts that the tender of the joint tenderers is abnormally low and, if the tender is not abnormally low, there is no basis for the contracting authority to consider whether to reject the tender under the Public Procurement Act. Question 3: "What date and by whom have the construction contracts of the four ferry ships been signed? How many construction contracts have been signed for the construction of four ferry ships? ' Each ferry is under a separate contract. A total of four agreements have been concluded. Both contracts with the Turkish Sepfine Shipyard were concluded on 16 October 2014 and both contracts with the Polish Remontowa Shipyard were concluded on 23 October 2014. All four contracts of TS Laevad OÜ have been signed by the member of the Tallinn Port Management Board of AS Allan Kiil and sworn advocate Asko Pohla. Question 4: "By what date must the four ferry ships ordered by the state companies be completed under the ship's construction contracts? What is the cost of these ferries? ' The contractual deadline for the completion of the first vessel of the Turkish Sepfine Shipyard is 1 July 2016 and the deadline for the completion of the second vessel is 15 August 2016. The contract for the first ship of the Polish shipyard shall be dated 1 August 2016 and the deadline for the completion of the second vessel shall be 1 September 2016. The exact cost of ferry ships is a trade secret at the request of the shipyards, but I do not rule out that the right data has already appeared in the media. Question 5: "Who will take responsibility if four ferry ships or one of these ships are not completed on time and will not be able to provide services on inter-city routes by October 2016? The members of the management board of TS Laevad OÜ estimate that the construction of the ferry is on schedule. However, in the case of an issue as important as that of ferry connections to the islands, there must always be contingency plans and contingency plans. For example, the current carrier Väinameriline OÜ must have a plan for how to provide a service when one of the ships is off the line due to a breakdown. Therefore, be it delays in the completion of ships, subsequent technical failures, regular maintenance or any other such, the contracting carrier must be prepared to provide the service and have a plan for the provision of the transport service in all circumstances. The Management Board of TS Laevad OÜ has also publicly confirmed that they have these contingency plans. I know that the management of TS Ships OÜ was in the Keskkonna party that submitted an inquiry last week and you were able to ask them detailed questions. Question 6: 'Why was the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications unable to guarantee the quality of service to islanders and giants earlier, and the long waiting queues last summer raised questions about the Ministry's ability to be a constructive partner in the provision of ferry services to large islands? 'The Ministry has acted and acts in the organisation of ferry connections within the limits of the public service contract in force, taking into account state budget resources. Last year, we used all possible means to ensure ferry connections, including additional journeys to ensure that we were able to carry over. It is true that the existing carrier Väinamere Liinid OÜ has complied with the 2006 public service contract for passenger transport, signed by Edgar Savisaar, then Minister of the Economy and Chairman of the Centre Party, but last year the carrier replaced two large passenger ships with smaller ones. In order to meet the demand for transport by smaller ships, the Ministry ordered additional journeys from the carrier. For example, there were three passenger ships on the route in summer. A total of approximately 290 additional trips were made last year on the Rohuküla route and about 430 additional journeys were made on the opposite line. We will continue to analyse daily demand for ferry services and, if necessary, we will be ready to order additional journeys to meet demand and provide passengers with the best possible quality of service. The partnership between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the carrier is constructive and constructive, there is no doubt about that. However, in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we give priority to the interests of passengers and they may not always coincide with the perception of a particular undertaking. The interests of the people of Estonia should be taken into account when making inquiries here too, even though your tone is a little less familiar with the other side. However, the carrier is lucky and the Ministry is placing orders. It is certainly a remarkable and even educational knowledge that last year's passenger traffic increased by 3% on the route Virtsu-Kuistva and Heltermaa-Rohuküla, compared to 2014: Virtsu-Kuivastu, the number of passengers increased by around 5% on the route Heltermaa-Rohuküla. This is a fact that I strongly recommend to remember also in the case of emotional rhetoric. The number of passengers has increased, not decreased. Question 7: "How do you justify the increase in ticket prices in the provision of ferry traffic services and how much will the ticket price rise in 2016 and 2017? ' Ticket prices have changed since the submission of the enquiry and new prices are up on the carrier's website. For example, a passenger ticket costs 3 euros when travelling between Virtsu and Kuivastu, while driving between Rohuküla and Heltermaa 3.40. The price of both tickets increased by 40 cents. The driver's discount ticket between Kuivastu and Virtsu costs 1.50 and Rohuküla on the Heltermaa route 1.70. The price of both went up 20 cents. The principle of a discount ticket is still the same: tickets are 50% cheaper for island residents. In order to maintain an excess capacity comparable to that of the previous year, the estimated cost of this year, taking into account the average gross wage, the higher number of journeys due to smaller ships, the price of the new ferry competition, and others, is around EUR 1.6 million higher than in 2015. In 2016, Väinamere Liinid OÜ and TS Laevaid OÜ have planned a total of 18.65 million euros for water transport support. If the ticket prices had remained at the previous year's level, the deficit would have been around EUR 600000 in 2016. The price increase was also reduced by the members of the Riigikogu elected from the islands, headed by Kalle Laanet, Raivo Aegi and Kalev Kotkas, who found additional opportunities to support ferry transport in the budgetary procedure. It is probably good to recall once again that the cost of the ticket is just under 40% of the passenger's crossing cost, the remainder being covered by the State subsidy. Thus, from every euro that pays the ticket, the taxpayer has already covered 60 cents, including continental men, by the way. No increase in ticket prices is planned for 2017. Question 8: Is and what is the savings of taxpayers' funds on the basis of the contract with the new ferry operator? ' The price difference between TS Laevad OÜ and TS Shipping OÜ's joint offer and Väinamere Liinid OÜ's bids is EUR 29810130. This is the price difference between the bids, which includes both the costs of providing the transport service during the contract period and the purchase prices of the vessels at the end of the contract period. However, under the public service contract, the State has no obligation to buy out a passenger ferry. According to Väinamere Liinid OÜ's bid, the cost of providing the transport service was 64 million euros more expensive than the offer of the subsidiaries of AS Tallinna Sadam. If Väinamere Liini OÜ's bid had been successful, it would have been necessary to increase the State's contribution by more than EUR 5 million per year or to increase ticket prices by 60% instead of 14% and in subsequent years should have been adjusted in percentage terms. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U14	Questions for the Minister. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U15	Thank you, manager. Good minister! How deeply has the Ministry analysed the situation, knowing that four ferry ships have been acquired in a corrupt way? Could this procurement be null and void, and with what consequences? If by 1 October 2016 it is clear that the quality of the service will deteriorate, will you be ready to resign?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U16	Thank you. The quality of the service does not deteriorate, I am almost convinced of that. I very much hope that the new ferries will be of the quality that is stated in the agreement. That's one. Secondly, all legal aspects have been analysed, including procurement and pending criminal proceedings. As you know, the state has been having endless litigation with the current carrier and will probably continue to hold them in the future. All the possible challenges have already been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U17	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the sanctions in the construction contracts. In the situation in which ferry ships have to go on the route from 1 October, I would like to know whether and to what extent contractual penalties have been imposed for each ferry per day and the maximum delay time for which a contractual penalty can be requested.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U19	Thank you. Unfortunately, I don't have any contracts or contract materials with me here. We can reply later in writing to you about the subsidiary of the Port of Tallinn, as far as possible to be specified. But on behalf of the state, the state has also provided sanctions for the Port of Tallinn if the ships are not ready in time. But I don't think it's a serious opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U20	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The cost of every ferry is included in the media. Can you confirm that Turkish vessels pay EUR 22.8 million per vessel and Polish vessels EUR 31.5 million per vessel, and these four construction contracts cover all the costs associated with the construction of ships and do not involve more contracts with additional costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U22	Thank you. Prices are confidential due to contracts concluded between the contracting authority, the subsidiary of the Port of Tallinn and the shipbuilding companies, but, as I suggested in reply, figures have been sounded in the media, which may be true. I'm sure you'll read it between the lines yourself. These prices and the total cost reflect the cost of obtaining ferry vessels. If there are additional costs, the state as owner of the Port of Tallinn will definitely know about this. My personal view is that these prices should have been available to the public from the outset. At present, there is a strange situation where such information has to be shared confidentially with the special committee, who then, as if, bottom-up, can continue to share it. This is not a good situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! This whole ferry saw started with a relatively strong smell, which has grown ever stronger. At first, Vyacheslav Leedo described meetings with your people, and then one of them took a lot of dough. The question is specific: how much will the ticket price rise as a result of the new ferry, whether it will be 3.60 or 3.80 instead of 3 euros and whether it will be 10 euros or more for the car instead of 8.40?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U25	Thank you. First of all, I already answered about the fares. Prices are available and are also described on the basis of which logic they are rising. Secondly, the first part of the question. Meeting our people, I don't know if you mean the people of the port, the people of the ministry or anyone else. The claim to be a nut job is entirely on your conscience. I have heard the same claim about the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U26	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U27	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! About a week ago, you said in a press release that in October, new timetables will come, and by May, if I am not mistaken, they will become clear. Already the classics Ilf and Petrov divided the world into pedestrians and car drivers. No problem with the car drivers. But will it be consistent with these new schedules of all kinds of other public transport schedules that the late giant will be able to get a taxi from Tallinn to Haapsalu, for example, and not have to get to Rohuva and then take a taxi from Heltermaa to Kärdla? As a minister, do you ensure that these schedules are consistent or how this is done?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U28	Thank you. These graphs, as well as the current graphs, certainly take into account the graphs of other public transport vehicles and the mobility needs of all people. I'm sure the minister alone won't do it. This is done in cooperation with carriers in the planning of public transport in municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U29	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U30	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I and a lot of other people are concerned about the different price of the ship to be built in the Polish factory and the ship to be built in the Turkish factory. If the media were to be used as a reference, the difference would be around EUR 17 million. After it became clear that ships had different prices, what forced them to enter into contracts with their more expensive shipbuilders? Could it not have been possible, for example, to extend the operator's contract by one year with the current operator? The state would have won a lot of money. What just forced all four ships to order one at a time and two ships from a more expensive factory?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U31	Thank you. I guess you didn't follow the answer I gave you before, or did you have the question written on paper? When it comes to the procurement that was carried out, it has to be said that the current carrier made a much more expensive offer. We would then have talked about a 60% increase in the ticket price instead of 14%. That's what I said before.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U32	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U33	Thank you. It is logical that the state, as a contracting authority, is carrying out very correct and thorough monitoring and is preparing well-defined and precise starting tasks, which are very good to monitor during the process, in order to find out whether all the markers that have been set down have been achieved. Is the State certain that the four ferries will be operational and operational on the scheduled date? If not, who will bear the damage and who will pay the fines? Each contract must also contain sanctions in the event of failure to comply with any part of the contract. Does the difference have to be paid by the state or by the builder if, for example, some other metal is used to build the ship's corps? You once claimed that the prices of ships were different because one ship was built of one type of metal and another type of metal and that there was a difference of EUR 17 million. Who will pay for the damage if somewhere gets screwed, perhaps as my colleague Peter asked, who will pay for the dough?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U34	Whoever pays for this dough, ask my colleague Peter. But as far as metal is concerned, there was a description of it by a subsidiary that described the possible price differences between the two plants. Since regulations, materials and labour prices may vary to some extent, the price difference actually differs from this. Why didn't they order all four ships from the same factory? This has also been explained to the Riigikogu: because one factory could not produce four ships. I think you also understand that if it is not possible to obtain four ships from one place, the next offer will be taken and two ships ordered if a total of four ships are required. There's nothing to do, that's the real situation. Today's information is that both factories are ten days ahead of schedule. So right now, there's a reason to assume that everything will be done in time. I really hope this is going to happen, but I don't think there's another way. There are contingency plans, but I'd prefer the master plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U35	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Council. Good minister! I'm gonna start with my question where you just finished, what happens next. The terms of the tender stipulate that ships must comply with the required technical conditions, as well as that all four new ferry ships must start providing the service from 1 October 2016. If, contrary to your hope, it turns out that the completion of one ferry is still late and that ship will not provide a line service from 1 October 2016, which means that the public procurement has failed and the contract conditions have been violated, what will the Ministry do? Or are you just, based on your expectations, which you can't confirm with anything, hoping, I don't know, God?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U37	I believe in God, I don't know how you do it. It's everyone's personal choice. But I am also absolutely convinced that the ships will be ready in time. There is a situation now, as I said in reply to the previous question, that we are ahead of schedule. Both companies also have monitoring mechanisms, and our representatives are there to ensure this procurement. Baltic Workboats is the company that supervises. More than 100 workers work on each ship, and in recent weeks about 130 workers were on board. So, in fact, this knowledge plus information on the completion of all ships is quite accurate. We have faith and, in fact, we have knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U38	Procedural clarification for Viktor Vasiliyev: The session of the Central Party Council is over, you are currently in the Riigikogu session. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U39	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The questioners were very concerned about what would happen on 1 October. However, the current carrier also has a contract stating the conditions under which the transport service it provides must satisfy. Now this is the situation where the ships that travel between Hiiumaa and these ships are St. Ola and Regula are hanging several signs on the car deck. They say it's forbidden to be on the car deck while driving, and in certain circumstances the doors are locked so that people can't get there. At the same time, there is no elevator for disabled people to leave the car deck. Are you familiar with the existing contract? Are these ships in conformity with the terms of the contract, and has the fact that not all people can move on the stairs of the ship by their own means been overlooked?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U40	Thank you. There were two components in your question. Firstly, whether these vessels fulfil the conditions of the contract concluded in 2006 by Edgar Savisaare. The answer is, yes, answer. It was probably not foreseen at the time that the interest of passengers in these routes would increase so much and the needs would increase. That's one. Secondly, when it comes to getting disabled people off the road deck, the current carrier has been repeatedly told that there must be opportunities for this. The carrier has confirmed that if there is a message that a disabled person needs to be taken up, the team will take care of it, but just like you, I would say that a disabled person must have the opportunity to move independently, it cannot only take place on the basis of a message. Indeed, this is one place where the current carrier should be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U41	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U42	Thank you. Some of the questioners' interest seems to be driven by more points than by the content of the matter. In fact, people are interested in ensuring that the service is stable and continues despite any possible risks. By this risk, I mean not only that the ships will not be ready. To give an example, if the previous carrier did not provide the correct data to AS Saarte Lines during the safety certification and test trips, this led to the reconstruction of the quays. It cost the country more. In order to avoid the other risks that might arise, is there a solution that the current barges will partially continue if one or the other new ferry cannot go on the line? So is there some kind of cruise between two carriers, or what's this scenario? People want security and confidence that the backup plan really does hold water, regardless of any risks, not just that the shipbuilder might be late.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U43	Thank you. It's not like we're talking about a shipbuilder being late. The graph is constantly checked. On the basis of today's knowledge, as I said before I asked you, both factories are ten days ahead of schedule. Of course, any major construction operation of this kind will not be ruled out as unexpected. The current carrier has expressed its willingness to operate the routes under certain conditions, and in fact the daughter company of the Port of Tallinn has a plan in place if any deadlines are to run out. But once again, there is no reason to assume today that we have to implement these plans, but, of course, that is never out of the question. It is being dealt with and it is thought through, I can assure you that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U44	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U45	Thank you. Dear Minister, For various reasons, in the ports we are talking about today, sea levels vary from time to time. This has sometimes led to problems, especially in Hiiumaa. Are the new ships that will travel between the mainland and Hiiumaa such a draught that these problems should not arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U46	Thank you. I know that this deep issue was also addressed at the meeting of the Central Party Group. The draught is the same as the current ships, and this problem should not arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U47	Thank you, Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I assume the Minister doesn't want to say anything either. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U48	The next question is for the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. It is presented by Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsepp, Artur Talvik, Jüri Adams, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsepp and Krista Aru, who also reports an inquiry on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! Minister, thank you very much. Looking at all these issues in progress in the educational landscape, it seems that the promotion and management of interest education in natural sciences, engineering and precision sciences at the Ministry of Education and Research is a very small problem. There might even be a question of why we should talk about this separately if we discuss the education sector more thoroughly and more widely. However, the Ministry of Education and Research has confirmed the priority in this area in a number of important strategy papers. Members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party were motivated by the fact that, as of 1 January 2016, an advisor from the Ministry of Education and Research was gathered, who was directly responsible for the projects and activities of interest education in natural sciences, engineering and precision. We asked five questions. One of these is a broader content, with regard to the prospective development of education in the field of interest. We kindly ask the Minister of Education and Science to answer these questions in order to inform us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U50	I ask the Minister of Education, Jürgen Ligi, to respond kindly to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm not so kind as to answer. To begin with, I express a slight disappointment that for the second time in such a short time the Free Party will make the loss of one person a question of the Riigikogu and government. This is an obvious disproportion, especially when I think that one of the last vivid memories of this Riigikogu is a speech by a member of the Free Party on the subject of bureaucracy. There was nothing but a lot of bureaucracy. Those bureaucrats were recording it and listening! We should still focus on the more important and ask more generally about politics rather than one person's position. Well, what the hell. Your sacred right is to ask, and it is my sacred duty to make a kind face, as the manager rightly said. The first question: 'How and with what measures will the priority development of the sector be ensured when, from January, the Ministry's only post of advisor for development in this field was made redundant? ' First of all, this area is, of course, our priority, expressed in the structure of the ministry, in the measures taken, in the budget allocations made, and also in the ministry's day-to-day activities. The way we set up the internal organisation of the ministry is a matter of detail. This field has been prioritised in several departments of the Ministry, such as the Department of Science, Teachers, General Education, Vocational Education and Higher Education, which is their main activity. This topic is also dealt with by administrative bodies such as the Estonian Youth Work Centre, Estonian Research Council, Archimedes Foundation, AHHAA Foundation, Innove Foundation, HITSA and others. So this fate of one person here doesn't make any difference. After all, we have set a goal of curbing bureaucracy, reallocating people's functions and, ultimately, reducing the number of public employees. This could be our starting point. Each ministry makes its own choices and they are not always pleasant at the level of individuals. The second question: 'How has one person so far been designed to coordinate and manage the successful execution of LTT activities and projects? Who's responsible for this? ' Again: our ministry is the Ministry of Education and Research, we prioritise science and technology in very different ways. There's no change to that one job again. In the past, this topic was also the responsibility of the Department of Vocational Education, Higher Education and Research. The Ministry's General Education Department will continue to work as an expert general with expertise in the field of LTT. These areas have still been distributed among people, etc. In short, I don't want to read the details here for a long time, they're really very small. Question 3: How do you assess the implementation of the Action Plan prepared and managed by the HTM in 2015 to the science and technology pact? ' We appreciate the implementation of last year's action plan. A wide range of activities have been launched in the framework of implementation. Last year, the descriptions of study processes in the field of mathematics, natural sciences and technology of national curricula in general education were updated. The organisation of national and international olympiads and the participation of the best students in international olympiads, as well as courses at the University of Tartu School of Science, have been supported. The call for proposals for scientific popularisation has been supported with a total of EUR 202000, covering 30 activities with target groups of both kindergarten children and research institutions and a broad public. A new format has been used in the final round of the student research competition and a student research festival has been launched. Our people estimate that the competition for young inventors is the most successful, with a number of new businesses, organisations and public institutions being involved in this after increasing participation. Doubled, half a million euros, ProgeTiigri's budget and in cooperation with the University of Tartu, the testing of the statistical education programme has continued. The reform of vocational education curricula has created new output-based curricula, which have broadened learning opportunities in vocational education in the field of LTT, such as open metal processing technician-technologists, wood products technicians and robot technicians. Question 4: "What are the specific new activities that will ensure the priority development of the field on the Ministry's side, and which of these activities will be started in the current year and which of these will be the next year of study? ' Activities to ensure the priority development of the sector are described in the Science and Technology Pact and the HTM Action Plan. The activities of TeaMe+ will be fully launched in 2016, of which support for the creation of a network of science interest education and the development of support materials for the initiation of new research interest groups, the expansion of the circle of participants of the science and technology pact, the development of a joint and long-term action plan, the priority development of the student science festival, the extension of the circle of involved organisations and the influence of the festival, the procurement of programmes for science programmes for a wide audience, and the production of the "Raket 69' Young Science Competition will continue. These activities are carried out by the Estonian Research Council. An open call for proposals will be organised under the "Science popularisation' sub-measure, with two main focus areas: LTT-interest education and support for systematic long-term research-enhancing activities. Question 5: "Has the Ministry been discussing and what results have been achieved on the matter to consider the activities of LTT interest groups as part of education (currently state-defined as part of youth work) which it is, both in substance and in practice, and which would allow the application of rates similar to those of general education to pay for the work carried out in the field of interest education? ' LTT interest groups are part of education and non-formal learning and youth work. Non-formal learning is a flexible form that organises needs-appropriate recreational activities and therefore the content and remuneration of this work is not substantially regulated or remunerated at national level. The state contributes to the LTT interest groups with a number of initiatives and guidelines: programmes, calls for proposals, municipal grants, etc. The Ministry considers that the activities of lobby supervisors should be valued and that the owners of an interest school should pay the instructors of the LTT interest groups on the basis of the same rates as those of general education. The ministry has been discussing the topic of interest groups. The Ministry is aware of the scarcity of community supervisors and the project orientation of the work. These and other problems have also been highlighted in the organisation of the research agency. A study on education of scientific interest was carried out in 2015, the results of which were presented in January. Through the call for proposals under the "Science popularisation' sub-measure, it is planned to support LTT teaching in hobbies and the emergence of LTT interest groups in general education schools. Interest groups receiving support will have both a plan of action and potential financial opportunities to continue their activities after the end of the grant. One of the key objectives of the concept of a system of support for youth interest activities set up under the leadership of the Ministry of Culture is to ensure that all young people have access to a wide range of activities of interest. We have just highlighted the LTT area as one of the priorities, and this concept will probably be written down. We should, however, alleviate weaknesses in this area rather than share money evenly. But that was the fifth and final question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U52	As an intermediate remark, the questioning complies with the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act. If that were not the case, we would not have passed it on to the Minister. Now the questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U53	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Let me begin by expressing a bit of disappointment that the Minister shares the questions of the heirs with "sufficient generalisation" and too detailed questions. But the next time I want to be better and more acceptable to the Minister, it gave me the subject to ask which areas of education and science the Free Party could and should make further inquiries. What shortcomings, weaknesses and bottlenecks do you see in the activities of the ministry you run, which you would like us to pay attention to so that you can talk about them from this remote control?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U54	Allow me to express a bit of disappointment over this question. It was certainly not very substantive, but it was a playful question. But the problem is, in fact, that the fate of one person is too small to be able to reach the Riigikogu and the questioning. If you had started your questions on the second or third question, there would have been a lot of content, and I would have given a little more compact answers than the ones I just read out. I mean, it's really important in that sense. If, after that, personal connections become known, as happened last time, this is an additional deception. Let's still talk about politics, let's not talk about single people. One of the policies is always bureaucracy and the limitation of public spending and better organisation of work. Not all people will remain in the office where they are used to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U55	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I think you guys were kind of clinging to this one-man problem. However, our questions started with how and what measures will ensure the priority development of the sector. Perhaps, in answering the following questions, you really did come up with some answers to this, but we would have expected a more detailed and precise answer. I'll expand the question. Has the objective of developing the LTT been set for us in such a way as to lay the foundations for an increase in the popularity of technical and engineering education in higher education institutions? What are the current developments and forecasts in this area? I know that for a very long time this has been about the fact that the structure of professional choices has not been the best for us in terms of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U57	Thank you. After all, the measures have been called out many times in different ways. They concern both professional grants and financial allocations in general, as well as investments on which I had a previous meeting today. It is easier to justify investment in areas where labour needs and societal goals are more problematic, I wanted to say where there are weaknesses. If, in certain areas, the preparation of specialists is not covered, it is easier to invest there, and even if this is a key issue in other policies. But, yes, there have been a great many examples of where the answer to today's inquiry could have been found. One position is certainly not a good incentive, and this person certainly did not deal with a fraction of what the Ministry is doing in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U58	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm the one who prepared the question that got you upset. I can assure you that the greatest aim of this inquiry is still to find an answer to the question of whether, after losing the post, the Ministry is able to manage all the projects and activities that have been launched in this area in a coordinated manner, not the redundancies, but the losing of the post. We heard that part of the work takes place in the Youth Department, part of the General Education Department, that the field is so important. How, though, will the overall coordination take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U60	Thank you. The day-to-day work coordinates it all the time, is coordinated by the management, is horizontally coordinated by the coordinating departments and is also coordinated by the distribution of funds. There is no danger that one person will do the entire ministry in a large field of work. No, it's not. We have to work harder with fewer people all the time, that's the reality, no matter what. The ministries are pulling the formations together, but more work is coming, it's not getting any less. The country tends to get complicated. On this basis, functions are also allocated and the people who perform them are chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U61	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U62	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I have visited a lot of small primary schools in South-East Estonia and I have seen that in most of these schools there are also Legorobiotics tools and circles. They're very popular. Teachers have said that they have received these sets through various projects. But if a school wants to open a circle of technical, precision or natural sciences, which funds can it ask for support from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U63	Thank you. They could turn to the Ministry. I've never been on the side of a money asking, I've always been on the other side, and when such questions arise, I'm gonna ask the side for advice. But you said that there are such opportunities in Southeast Estonia. That's good news to me, but not too big news. If kindergartens are also taken into account, there are more than 500 institutions that are involved in robotics or programming. This issue of round money was once buried on its own because it meant confusion between the functions of the state and the functions of local governments, and there was also a weak issue of priority. I agree with this measure, in particular, because we can set some priorities there. Natural and technical sciences are one of the major priorities. In general, if, as a country, we intervene in the activities of local governments, who are schoolteachers, we should fill some structural gap. Indeed, robotics and programming are those that I think should be considered first. I did not like the measure of sharing again from Tallinn from the beginning. It is somehow very difficult to make a fair distinction between what is social and what is a regional dimension, how to avoid money being received by those who already have and who are likely to withdraw their funding in this case. It is now known that this will happen. That's one hell of a lot of thinking. I guess I haven't figured out how to avoid it yet. But we can set criteria for preference to be given to engineering and science. We have very good practices in the financing of recreational activities thanks to our musical culture or also to art culture. However, there is a greater deficit in areas related to the future needs of the labour market, because, in the case of music and art, the hobby element is certainly greater than in other areas. We have found that, yes, this area requires this. This measure will apply, I believe, from 2017. How to find the existing funds, you have to think about it a little bit. I really haven't been on the side of a project-level money-seeker.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U64	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U65	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Last year, the Free Party Group organised a debate on scientific progress as a debate on a key national issue. It is clear from there that science and practical life, for example at the level of entrepreneurs, are very different between us. The concern of companies dealing with the technical side, in particular, is that we do not have a flexible system for employing trainees in the framework of a project, even for a moment, and thus giving schools a more realistic picture of what business needs are. This is particularly important because we have a shortage of labour. You have pointed out that several foundations are responsible for the area. What is the foundation on which the solution to this topic lies, so that science and practical business needs do not differ?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U66	Thank you. It's a very diverse subject. It is a pity that this Free Party debate did not glow to the Minister, so I do not know exactly this point of view. The Minister was not invited to this debate, and I learned from the sidelines that this had been the case. I'd be a better answer if I'd been a part of it. The link between science and the economy is a highly multi-pronged issue, which has also been discussed at European level. There's no way you can put that on the shoulders of a foundation. Several euro measures also state, and the funding model for research and higher education institutions includes that research should contribute more to entrepreneurship, with performance contracts and basic funding in mind. It's hard to find this one spot right now. More generally, we must be responsible for ensuring that education is more closely linked to practical life; education must be designed not only to produce wisdom but also to participate in the production of well-being without, of course, compromising the spiritual thief. I was talking about education earlier, but science has the same story, science and economy need to be linked. There are different ways in which companies can, for example, make product development with research money and use research infrastructure in their activities. These are things where European regulations are also a little behind, but all of this we have recognised, solved these problems and also sent messages to Europe about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U67	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You're the Minister of Education and Science, but I want to know your opinion on how you look at this dance that happened some time ago around Horizon's funding. This is now covered by another silo with the name of another ministry. How do you look at this dance, and will it continue this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U69	Thank you. I don't know anything about silo towers, and I don't really know dance. Really, I have not been a part of this process. I've learned from the side that the decision has been negative for the Horizon. But I can't deal with the whole world. In the horizon, the performers themselves have also admitted that there is a need for major restructuring. If they handle this properly, it will probably be easier to finance. I really do not know the state of play or how final this decision is and what they have come up with to make themselves more attractive. This magazine does not belong directly to our sphere of activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U70	Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, on behalf of Krista Aru's heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U71	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Minister, thank you very much. When I introduced our inquiry, I said that this could be a small issue in a large educational landscape. However, I did not think that the Minister would see this as a very personal matter. Our inquiry was still focused on how to ensure a solid priority development of all the fields of interest that focus on natural sciences, precision and engineering. We know that a number of strategic development plans have been adopted, a number of implementation papers have been drawn up, and all these activities, whether project-based or longer-term, must be coordinated and produce concrete results. After all, there are a number of very serious problems in developing an interest education in science, science and technology. A study already referred to by the Minister, carried out by the Estonian Research Council's Department for the Popularisation of Science, highlighted a number of bottlenecks. First of all, it identified areas where it is difficult to obtain an education of interest in rural areas. These difficulties result from the project-based nature of funding, resource scarcity and also from a social background problem such as the lack of supervisors. When we put all these issues and bottlenecks together, it becomes clear that we are again at risk of moving along this path, that there are proud strategic plans and documents, but that they are not being carried out in a sufficiently coordinated manner, and that is why we are not getting the desired results. In the development plan for the use of oil shale, which we discussed last week in this Chamber, it came out as a bottleneck that oil shale is being dealt with at the level of the 21st century, also in scientific terms, very little. Where, then, will the people who are going to deal with oil shale or phosphorus at an exploratory and up-to-date level grow? The inquiry from the Free Party was waiting for a substantive answer as to how, in this situation, which has now developed in the Ministry, the coordinating person who would watch and demand such a position will no longer be the result. The Minister here confirmed that all these projects will continue, they are divided between different departments. We hope, therefore, that the promotion of recreational education will continue in the direction we want, and that teachers, who also recognise the need for such a course, will have a calm and good lesson to give, and that all children will be able to engage in areas of interest that are important to them and, ultimately, our young people will still be able to receive one of the best levels of education in the world, thanks to the sustainability of interest education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U72	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. Is there something the Minister would like to say? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U73	The following question is submitted by Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Olga Ivanova, Jaanus Karilaid, Siret Kotka, Peeter Ernits and Viktor Vassiliev. On behalf of the heirs, March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U74	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! On 13 January an inquiry was submitted to the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. Inquiry was about financing general education schools out of parents' money. To begin with, in 2015 the National Audit Office carried out an audit on the topic 'Financing general education schools from parents' money'. The audit revealed that eight out of ten audited schools in Tallinn and Tartu have more or less taken into account co-financing of parents in the implementation of the study programme. However, this is not in line with the principle that the municipality's general education school must be able to study without tuition fees and that the school should not expect co-financing from the parents. Consequently, a gross breach of financial discipline was detected. Supervision is solely a matter for the state, and the local government cannot intervene in different financing models. The municipality can only control the completion of the curriculum, whether the Law on Non-profit Associations and the Law on Foundations have been complied with, but there is no right to control the relationship between matters between the municipality and the Education Board. Only the state controls such a thing and consequently an audit was carried out. I mean, we taxpayers' money was spent to find out the bottlenecks. They were identified, but what is the result? Zero! The law was grossly violated, but we still don't know what it brought to the offenders. It probably didn't bring anything to the perpetrators. Jürgen, I didn't talk on the phone when you were talking! Hence our questions. What has the Ministry of Education and Research done with the school leaders mentioned in the report who have violated financial discipline? After all, this model and structure were designed by the school leaders. You don't have to be a genius to come up with that model. I mean, if I'm gonna turn on a channel like this, there you go! Why haven't those schools that can handle the money they've been given been praised? Why haven't they been paid a bonus? They spin from morning to evening, and they do much better in basic school and upper secondary school. Why is it an opportunity to create elite school hysteria with a hidden financing model, as if some kind of school received some kind of a horrible education for some kind of money? I'm sorry, but the multiplication table is the same anywhere! So it's pure technical hysteria. Hence the last question (intermediate questions, I think, will be read by the Minister himself). Supervision is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Research and, as a result, it is the duty of the Ministry to remedy deficiencies and violations in general education schools in ensuring equal treatment and equal access to education. So please describe, Minister of Education and Science, what you have planned to do in 2016, so that the basic school and upper secondary school law can be properly implemented in all schools. Stop trying to get hysterical, stress, drive people crazy! The race for elite schools just ended. You want to eliminate the unequal situation, state secondary schools are different, municipal secondary schools are different, but then you are desperately trying to tame private secondary schools because there is unequal treatment. At the same time, you are encouraging and lawning unequal treatment. Please be so kind as to answer these questions! And don't be so scattered as to answer a previous question! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U75	Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The inquisitor, of course, is looking again for a suitable video clip to hang on the network, highlighting the phrases he himself called out of here. However, I will try to answer more seriously than the questions have been asked. The first question: 'What has the Ministry of Education and Research done with school leaders who have violated financial discipline, as stated in the report? ' As you are well aware, the Ministry of Education is not the keeper of the schools in Tallinn that we are talking about. The schoolkeeper has a direct right to choose the driver and to impose sanctions on him. The supervisory power of the Ministry of Education and Research is much more general. But our information is the opposite of what you are definitely hanging out now, as if the schoolgirl had no rights and all the rights were held by the Minister of Education. The situation is exactly the opposite: the Minister of Education can only use indirect methods. We are trying to strengthen the part concerning the suitability of school leaders, their assessment, not to mention teaching, but also the precepts about them, which may be followed by financial influence. This is all in our plan, but this right has not been granted so far. But it's not a substitute for the owner's decisions. We cannot enter the municipality's autonomy in detail if the municipality decides to violate the rules. But the Ministry of Education and Research knows two schools where there have been such violations of law because of asking for money. Both are located in Tallinn. I know that you have contacts in Tallinn, you have belonged to Tallinn City Council and you could pass on the names of these schools: Mustamäe Gymnasium and English College. I hope that maybe they have already eliminated these problems, we also had a debate on it in the Riigikogu Committee, but if they are still there, then you can intervene very quickly via the schoolmaster. The national supervisory procedure, organised by the county government, has taken place in Mustamäe Gymnasium and this year it is also planned in the English College to check the situation and to give instructions to the head of the school. The ministry is working with the county government here, and we're looking for solutions. The Ministry has been very militant on these issues. If you use emotional words, I use emotional words. I have also observed the lack of agreement of the Ministry of Education several times over the years as a simple bystander. I've been even more modest in tone here. In itself, the idea that there should be no right to ask for any extra money for better or more extensive additional training, to throw out washing water, but certainly requires that the education provided for in the curriculum can be obtained free of charge, including the Constitution. That's what municipal school has to offer. The second question: 'Explain the requalification of schools involved in infringements as one possible solution, starting from 01.01.2016 for private schools and the effects of the Private School Act on these schools from 01.09.2016? The Ministry of Education and Research cannot claim that these are not private school characteristics, although tuition fees were collected in the form of 'voluntary donations' and 'hiddenly'. ' You can say that. Whether the school is private or not is determined by the form of ownership or the founder, not by the way it seems to anyone. I mean, city school can be given to the state and state school city, but not to private property, it is not provided for by the basic school and upper secondary school law, and neither is our legal space. Such a transfer would not create any problem, the schoolkeeper must manage his school network in a competent and responsible manner and ensure that the budgeting of school management in the region is properly and rationally ensured. He must also ensure that there are school places that a private school does not have to do. Question 3: "Has Auditor General Alar Karis prescribed the Ministry of Education and Research, referring to the schools mentioned above, and if not, has the Ministry of Education and Research asked the Auditor General for instructions on the organisation of the further work of the Ministry with the schools mentioned above, based on the findings of the audit? ' The National Audit Office has first made recommendations to Tallinn City Government as a schoolmaster. That's still the case, the headmaster's responsibility is direct. There's been a great deal of agreement here with the Ministry, out to the details. We have also prepared a guide that we intend to pass on to schools. It may not have been finalised yet, but I believe that we have negotiated the general principles. This will be discussed with school leaders at the end of February, after which it will be published. The fourth question: 'The supervision is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Research and, consequently, the Ministry is responsible for the elimination of deficiencies and irregularities in general education schools in ensuring equal treatment and equal access to education, etc. ' The report of the National Audit Office and the positions of the Chancellor of Justice have, however, explained that the rightful behaviour of schools, access to education and quality in their territory is the responsibility of the schoolkeeper, who is in this case the municipality called the city of Tallinn. He also has all the rights to carry out ministerial supervision. The Ministry has acted and acts in cooperation with rural governments within the limits of its powers. I guess that was the last question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U77	Questions for the Minister. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! It's very bearded news that money is being collected from parents. This has been the case since the first day of the year, already 15, 16 or 17 years ago, it was brought to the attention. For at least 15 years, I have drawn the Ministry of Education and Research's attention to hidden funding. Now comes my question. What kind of violation do you think there must be and how long must there be a penalty or a reaction from the Ministry of Education and Research to this violation in order to qualify for this violation? Don't start telling me that the local government has to do these things! It's the state. The Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act is a state standard that provides what must be taught to children in schools. If this rule is not met, then forgive me, there is a violation and the state must intervene.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U79	Thank you. What you said for 15 years was very flattering. If so far it has only been said that such a thing has occurred and it has been known, then we are going to do something about it. We intend to agree this guide with the category and pass it on to them. Most schools don't have a problem. Here's the responsibility of the schoolkeeper. I repeat, it is the duty of the schoolmaster to make instructions and, if necessary, to select staff. We have stated our position publicly, we have limited the right to direct intervention. Even if we discover some kind of schoolmaster's breach of law, we can't replace him in office, that's what a schoolkeeper has to do. What are the broadest things we're talking about? At school you can still ask for money for something that comes in addition to the compulsory curriculum. Of course, it would be nice if the school could offer it for free, but if it cannot and decides to ask for money, then this additive must be the choice of the student and parent in all respects, not the obligation. The lessons of these subjects must not be placed between other classes, so that the student has no choice but to wait for the subject to pay. There must also be no such pressure that there is no choice whether or not to give money to the school. There has to be a choice. No one has to feel compelled. The details we have received in general are written in the guide. I would point out that by the end of February they will be discussed with the school leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U80	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U81	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. According to the Constitution, we should normally have a general education free of charge. When some of the lessons are taken separately, it puts children in a very unequal position. Some parents simply cannot find money to allow their children to attend additional classes. A school program shouldn't be able to do that. If someone wants to go to a community school or, for example, a language school, it should be possible, but it should not be done at school. Do you share this view, or do you disagree? This puts parents and children in a very unequal position because it is not possible for everyone to participate in such education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U82	Free education must be available, provided by municipalities and the state in cooperation. Currently, municipalities are primarily entrusted with basic education, but they still have most upper secondary schools and study is free of charge within the curriculum. Everything that comes into it is already an organisational choice. These lessons really must not, as I said, be between other classes; there must be no pressure or pressure on the parent; he must not feel pressured in any way when he has to pay the school money. However, we cannot say that there should be a special kind of education school or a different organisation for this purpose. At school, it is also flexible to organise an education of interest, it must be separated from the curriculum and there must be no pressure, even psychological.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U83	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U84	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Surveillance requires people who do it. What is the size of a team in the Ministry of Education that does this particular job?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U85	Thank you. I really don't dare say that number. In general, we propose to rural governments that they organise these monitoring procedures. I'm sure I should be better at these structures, but I don't yet. I'm gonna find out how many people are directly involved in monitoring and how many are in rural governments. The idea has also been made of taking this role away from rural governments, because in small places, you could say that there is a great deal of this feeling of watching over your neighbors in the circle of friends. It is likely that this monitoring between neighbours may not work very well in certain cases. But we will wait for more general trends in the administrative reform, and then we will reconsider what functions the rural governments will have in more detail. I wouldn't want to make those decisions and impose them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U86	Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. In the name of the authors of the inquiry, please speak to Märt Sultsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U87	Honourable President-in-Office! Colleagues! It was very nice to hear the answer. Excellent answer! It's all about someone else, not the ministry or the state. The state supervises, prescribes the local government, the local government must respond within the prescribed days or weeks and be able to answer why the violations have been committed and the extent to which they have been committed, and take the decisions prescribed by the outgoing Minister of Education. It's that simple. I mean, those people who work their breath from morning to night 366 days this year, nobody thinks it's important. They're told they're stupid because they struggle! At the same time, those who ask for more money to make separate groups because the state is unable to finance the activities provided for in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, those who ask for more money from their parents are the right men. There must be 24 students in the class. In one school, all 24 students are given English lessons together, while in another they are given three classes because the school asks for more money to hire two more teachers. At the same time, they do this pornographic school ranking, where all these schools are in a single row and are viewed in the same way. How can you look at them the same way? At least, then, let those schools that are unable to complete a programme with a fixed amount and ask for more money be in their weight category and compete with each other, there are those who have four mathematics courses a week and not, for example, nine. How is it that one school can hold a citizenship exam in another country instead of a state exam, and it is written as a foreign language state exam, but the other cannot? In the Ministry of Education, absolutely everything is placed in order of order: as it is convenient and can be close to its future voters. Everything is terribly simple. It is said that mathematics is not a political subject. It's a lot, 'cause look what's going on! As head of school, I've come through copper tubes to stay in this control number to comply with the basic school and upper secondary school law, so that education is free and no money is charged for education. My former colleagues said, "You're a mess, March. Why don't you ask for money? The cardboard's coming really fast. Go through the foundation or the NGO, it's okay and you're all tibens. ' No! My former colleagues asked me why I worked seven days a week. But otherwise it didn't work out, because otherwise it wouldn't have been possible to give free education. This is the same thing as the motivation we want to reach, what we want to become and what we want to live as if we do not want to prepare people for the European market for middle-level black workers. Thank you. The minister, on the other hand, took a deep bow. I won't take a cut out of his speech, and I won't share it on the Internet. There's truth on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U88	There's no more calls. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U89	After the hammer hit, there's a free microphone. Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U90	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! Helmen Kütt and the speaker here received an invitation from Robert Aderholt and Juan Vargas, members of the US Congress, to attend the 64th National Prayer Breakfast in the United States. Its main event took place on 4 February in Washington Hilton. Helmen and I took part. The form of prayer breakfast is known over the weather; it is common in more than 160 countries as well as in the European Parliament. The largest national prayer breakfasts organized by the US Congress and the Senate since 1953 have taken place on the first Thursday of February. National prayer breakfasts mainly involve the political leadership of the country, offering the opportunity to overcome formal barriers, find the ground for better mutual understanding and human contact on the basis of Christian permanent values and responsibility. The event always has a large number of international visitors, with more than 100 countries. During 64 years, there have always been two key speakers at a prayer breakfast: the President of the United States and a speaker whose identity is unknown until breakfast. Throughout the years, such opinion leaders as Tony Blair, Bono, Eric Metaxas, Mother Teresa, and others have been among them. This time it was a couple named Mark Burnett and Roma Downey, movie and television workers. President Barack Obama followed. At the beginning, he read the words of the apostle Paul's second letter to Timothy: "God gave us, not a spirit of cowardice, but a spirit of power and love and reasonableness. " He stressed that we are living in an extraordinary time of fundamental changes in technology, great natural disasters, and conflicts between people, so there is fear. At the same time, faith in God is an important force for fear. God has given a believer a power of love that overcomes fear. Andrea Bocelli presented the opening and closing of breakfast. More than 3,000 people sat behind the tables, including visitors from more than 130 countries. Before and after the main event, we had half a dozen other meetings and discussions with members of Congress, ambassadors and guests, including Timo Soin and Julia Tymoshenko. The congress itself, on the other hand, holds weekly prayer meetings involving members of the Congress of different religions. There's also atheists. They are not ashamed to say with a loud voice that they will gather in Jesus'name to learn from him. In Estonia, prayer breakfasts began in 2002. Then the president of our country took part. Since spring 2009, the Parliament's prayer breakfast group has been gathered every month in the Riigikogu, where members of the Riigikogu participate in a consensual and friendly exchange of views. During the working hours of this Riigikogu, a good colleague, Helmen Kütt, has arranged monthly prayers for the Riigikogu. I think these prayer breakfasts have a deep meaning and perspective. This year's prayer breakfast is the 15th. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-15_U91	There's no more calls. Monday's session is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.40 p.m.
