ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 67 members of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir and Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi participate in Question Time. According to the number of requests, I give the opportunity to one additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U2	The first question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Asks Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! I was wondering which one I was going to ask this question, either to you or to the Minister of Education. I thought maybe you were the right person to answer. We have received information from Virumaa that the Imastu School there, which is now a boarding school, is being reorganized. The students there will be sent to the Leht, and the current school will in the future be made into some form of accommodation centre for immigrants or refugees. There are quite a lot of rumors and rumors about this topic in Estonia. That's why I thought I'd ask you straight. Can you confirm these stories or will you disprove them? What's the plan for Imastu school?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U4	I strongly advise you not to believe rumors and even warmerly recommend not to spread rumors. As you yourself rightly pointed out, this is indeed a rumor and there is no basis for its dissemination. As we well know, Imaze is one of the public limited company Care Services sub-offices. The main focus is on the special adult care service, but special care is also provided to minors on the basis of a court order. There are six minors now. These rooms also include the School of Mihkli, where children with intellectual disabilities live mostly in the same building. Your information that is going to replace this school with a center for another purpose is complete news to me. I can assure you there are no such plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U5	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U6	Thank you. We're not spreading rumors, we're checking the information we've received. Am I right to understand that neither the Lehts nor the Drainer plan to establish a refugee centre in any of the buildings associated with these institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U7	Despite many stories of fear, which have been very actively spread with your involvement, it is now clear that in the foreseeable future Estonia will not be threatened by mass immigration. At least so far, we have not had the need to open new refugee centres. At the same time, we can see that Vaos has also been holding people long enough to help them without any mass immigration, and that is why there has sometimes been some overcrowding. Basically, there may be a need to create another place where people can be made easier to integrate into Estonian society. This concerns, for example, Ukrainians, who are expected to be more and more of us in the future, but also other people of very different nationalities. If such a need arises, it is likely that a suitable place will be found. Most specifically, there has been talk about an object in the Võgeval Jõgeva municipality, but so far there has not been a decision that a refugee centre will certainly be created there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U8	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! There are dozens of such fine private schools, where children with special needs are studying, in addition to the Imastu Mikkli School in Estonia. The decision of the State to stop covering these operating costs puts these schools, their children and their parents in a very precarious position. So where are these kids supposed to go so they can get an education?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U10	Very good question, thank you for that. There aren't dozens of these schools. The Minister of Education and Research at my right hand confirms that there are five schools in Estonia. However, as regards the financing of private schools, the government has made it very clear that the financing of private schools for children with special needs will continue to be supported by the state with higher amounts than, for example, municipally owned schools. I would point out that this entire debate on private schools has been around the fact that the state intends to treat private schools and municipal schools equally in the future, paying the exact same amount per student. What's the problem? What are private schools, at least saddened some private schools? The point is that some municipalities have announced that they want to treat private schools unequally. For example, the city of Tallinn has clearly stated that municipal schools are supported in addition to state funding, but they do not want to give this money to private schools. In my opinion, this behaviour by the city of Tallinn is unfair to all children who attend private schools. At the same time, I am pleased to say that, fortunately, there are many municipalities across Estonia, and there are also those who treat their students and their parents equally. For example, the mayor of Tartu has personally assured me that Tartu intends to continue supporting private schools on an equal scale with municipal schools. Tartu is certainly an example for Tallinn in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U12	The next question is for the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U13	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! If something convinces Estonians to return from work abroad to Estonia, this is often primarily a desire to give their children a good education in Estonian-language school. From time to time, articles appear in the media that may not be so easy at all. The last case that worried me and inspired me to ask you was the story of one of the high officials currently working at the Ministry about how he was looking for school for his children. He says this system isn't very good for us. Changes were made to the PGS a few years ago to prevent the child from being held a school place in Estonia. This, according to him, has caused problems, as well as the fact that the decision to return home is intended to be made early, but the education office may not find a place for the child until August, just before the school year begins. At all, the person described the process of finding a school for the child quite arduously. Do you think that this problem exists and would it require some form of interference from the ministry or even the legislator?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U14	There are several problems here. Indeed, people often come back to Estonia for education, and not just for good education in Estonian, but simply for good education. I'm sure there's a problem looking for school. I also have a personal experience of the so-called refugee. When I came from Saaremaa to work in Tallinn, I was also expelled from one school with a comment, so I didn't have an official residence in Tallinn that I didn't care where your children were going to study. It was a very good school, but it wasn't taken. The other one was taken. In any case, looking for a school is a major stress. You can solve this in several ways. First, before leaving, you should agree, consult with the municipality. It is possible to maintain a place on the school list when applying for home education. It's your turn, you get an individual curriculum, and that's how you go on a long way to school. But if this is not done, then the stress that arises is quite inevitable. The state cannot keep places for the children, pay for them and create over-coverage of school places, just in case. It's a natural necessity. After all, children living in Estonia often compete for the same school places, and the picture is still revealed only at the last moment. Unfortunately, you can't plan these things for a very long time if you don't plan them for a long time. But the problem is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U15	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U16	The same family father that I have referred to suggests a proposal for which he is already afraid that he will be crucified. I quote: 'If you open one extra class for people coming from abroad in a good school, 1. Up to class, the return of 100 top specialists with international experience to Estonia would not be surprising or unrealistic. ' What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U17	Doesn't it have a class distribution taste at just like an elite guy who's definitely gonna know where he's gonna get a place in school? Basically, we have a Tallinn European School for such cases, where this particular official wanted a place, but it is primarily intended for the children of foreigners. We are actually fighting for a uniform education in Estonia. Today, very excellent data from detailed studies revealed that we have the nearest uniform school in the world, with a very high average level. Differences in socio-economic background have hardly any impact on learning outcomes, especially in comparison with other countries. You shouldn't create this mentality that there's someone out there who always gets a place in a "good school" just because he's been abroad. As a rule, foreign school education is neither better nor even as good as Estonia's. We have no reason to say that there is a particular genotype and that these children must have separate school places. No, the school system is so arranged that the school place must be provided in the municipality or region of residence. We shouldn't label them that they're the future elite. I don't think it would really work, and it wouldn't be good, it would ruin a system that we've done very well. But in real life, of course, the connections that make it easier to get into the best schools are also important. All in all, it still works to some extent in Estonia as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U18	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U19	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! It is a well-known truth that when people go abroad with a family, they are not there for one or two years, but for three or four years, and they also have children at school there. And when they come back, it turns out that in terms of age, they should be in the ninth grade, for example, but in terms of knowledge, they have to be brought down two classes. It's like there's a contradiction with the law. Basically, the education service is provided until the age of age, so basic school and upper secondary school total up to the age of 18, at most 19 years. How have you been thinking about what to do with children who have lived abroad for three years and should, for example, be in the ninth grade, but actually have to take them back to the seventh grade so that they are on the same level as others in the hour checks and even in their knowledge?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U20	I certainly don't want to be an educator, but experts say that you should still try to raise the child as much as possible and teach it together with your own age, and if she has gaps, help her out. An individual curriculum is certainly one option, as well as individual treatment at school. All in all, this problem has not left Estonia and the children who have returned here have not been great. Their learning ability has been good. It is more difficult, of course, for children of foreign backgrounds who have come here, but they are also taught with their own age to the maximum extent possible. This will enable better results in both education and teaching. In general, that's what they think. Very large volasques with smaller ones certainly do not guarantee the best atmosphere and the greatest motivation. This must be avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U22	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U23	Thank you, dear Javier. The Riigikogu has the right to take decisions that assign tasks to the government. And to be honest, this does not happen very often, because at least 51 members of the population have to vote in favour of the Riigikogu decision. Those who belong to the government coalition are usually afraid to give their ministers responsibilities. However, on 27 January last year, the House adopted the decision of the Riigikogu with the votes of 61 MPs and instructed the government to implement the maintenance support fund from 1 January 2016 onwards for more than a month. My question is: why has the Government of the Republic not complied with the decision of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U24	Good Kadri Samson! I assure you that the government takes the tasks set up by the Riigikogu very seriously and so do the decision made in the previous Riigikogu, which was also voted in favour of quite a number of people sitting on the side of the government coalition in this Chamber. I am pleased to announce that the Government of the Republic has agreed in a coalition agreement that we will create a livelihood fund. However, life has shown that the creation of this fund takes a little longer, technically. We can set up a fund from 1 January next year. Today I also had the Minister of Health and Labour and the Minister of Social Protection at Stenbock's house. We discussed the financing of government priorities on the basis of the country's budgetary strategy. It is, by the way, a new format, until the country's budgetary strategy is planned in this form. And this meeting also brought up a living support fund. The specific way in which preparation is being carried out came up, and it came up with the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs has found ways of reducing the legwork of people receiving maintenance support, or red tape, compared to previous plans. I am absolutely sure that the system that will be implemented will be better than what was planned in the original plans. I assure you, a maintenance fund will come. But thank you for your enthusiasm for supporting the government's policy on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U25	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U26	Thank you. When last year the Riigikogu adopted the decision by 61 votes, eight members of the Reform Party voted against. This evidently showed a lukewarm attitude of the Reform Party towards the creation of a support fund. The Riigikogu's decision provided that a parent who raises a child on his own should be paid an allowance at least on the basis of the minimum rate of maintenance. Therefore, if the Fund had to be implemented this year, this amount would have been EUR 215. But you have written in the coalition agreement that you will be working on this subject a year later, and you have set a minimum rate of EUR 100 instead of EUR 215. The amount has been significantly reduced. This is certainly not an improvement in the Riigikogu's decision; it is a'saving project'. Do you think that the government has the right to change the Riigikogu's decisions as it sees fit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U27	The attitude of the Reform Party, Social Democrats and IRL ambassadors is best illustrated by the fact that the idea is embedded in a government union agreement with the signatures of all coalition ambassadors. Everything that contradicts this has not been an obstacle for us. This is a deal, and this is a plan. And we are certainly not going to start working on this at the beginning of next year. I'll repeat what I've already said. Technical conditions need to be established in order to establish a well-functioning support fund. It must be ensured that the system is as bureaucratic as possible, least cumbersome as possible, for a parent who cannot obtain a living from another parent. But we need to find the people who need this help. Work on this has already been done and is still underway. These drafts come before you, you can discuss all these issues in the Riigikogu, argue about the details and contribute to the full implementation of this fund next year. I am pleased to announce that, apart from the support fund, the government has given a great deal of attention to managing families with children in other ways. The Riigikogu has already adopted a bill that increases child support. In particular, I would point out that from the third child onwards, the child benefit would be EUR 300 per child. In addition, I also consider it very important that the limits of families with children have risen sharply. The amount paid by the State in the form of income support is much higher than last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U28	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U29	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! You came to the government office as Minister of Social Affairs with a Green Paper on Alcohol Policy and this was approved in 2014 at the Cabinet Session. Have you changed your mind? Why is there still a situation where your partymates are reluctant to go ahead with alcohol restrictions in accordance with the Green Paper policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U30	It is true that the Green Paper on alcohol policy was approved by the Andrus Ansip Government on the proposal of Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. I still believe that the policy changes set out in the Green Paper should mostly be implemented, they are necessary. I consider it particularly important to address the main problems. There is no need to make any seemingly different things, but to take steps that really help. The most important objective, in my opinion, is firstly that underage drinking should not be available to them. I believe that the most effective measure to ensure this is control purchases. It is also the most effective measure, best proven. We must be able to be absolutely certain that the seller who sells alcohol to a minor knows that he is risking his job risking a large fine. Secondly, I consider it very important to deal with excessive alcohol consumption. There are very concrete measures that will help against it. The most effective measure is the increase in excise duty. All the studies that I have seen and Estonia's own experience have confirmed this. In quite a number of years in a row, the government has increased this excise duty and alcohol consumption in those years, when the increase in excise duty has been faster than the overall increase in wages, has actually fallen. So this is definitely the most effective measure. As regards the draft, which is currently in circulation, it must come to the office and receive political approval. Since there is quite a lot in this draft that is not discussed in the Green Paper or which is not behind the previous political agreement, this issue must be discussed separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U32	The next question is for the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. Asks Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U33	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! When you became a minister, and we were all very pleased about that, you made a statement that you strongly support the idea of ensuring that there are at least 40% of women on boards of state companies. So you support the gender quota. That is my question: have you presented this idea in the government and tried to support it? If you have done so, what has been the reaction of the members of the government? If you haven't, why haven't you? Why haven't you defended your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U34	Salt quotas are quite a sensitive issue. The idea of gender quotas is to raise both sexes equally to the centre of attention. Based on this objective, and also on the fact that 70% of graduates at Estonian universities are women, but at decision-making level women are less than 30%, and if a woman has reached decision-making level, unfortunately, her salary is 17% lower than that of a man working on the same level, I have said that I really do support the introduction of gender quotas as a temporary measure, but rather effective. At the same time, I have pointed out that, if a country comes up with any such important initiative, it would be the most adequate for the business environment to be the first to implement the initiative in public enterprises, rather than immediately attacking the private sector. This problem has not been addressed by the government so far, but there is an immediate debate in the government on the issue of boards of state companies. We are discussing how these councils should be formed, and that is where I intend to raise the issue of the temporary introduction of gender quotas. The aim is to strike a balance in the councils so that women are more in public attention and more represented at our decision-making level, and can prove themselves there as highly capable leaders. By the way, a number of studies have shown that companies with equal women and men at decision-making level have better financial results, but women are also much better able to resist corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U35	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U36	So that is why I clearly support this idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U37	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Jaak Madison, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U38	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Thank you to the Minister for a concrete and meaningful response. Yes, you are, of course, right, it is very sad that there are very few women in the decision-making process. What is behind this is, of course, a question of its own, as well as whether it can be regulated in a compulsory way by the implementation of quotas. But the highest executive power is the Government of the Republic. What is your assessment of the current government, which has only two female ministers? Should we have more female ministers? How do you even feel about this problem at the highest level?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U39	Of course, I would be very pleased if there were more women in the government. Similarly, I would be very pleased if there were much more women in our groups. I have noticed that we have one group that has no women at all. So, in my opinion, this is a point for both the Riigikogu and the government how to involve more women.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U40	Martin Helme, the point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U41	There are no quotas in our party, which is why we do not have women in the group. But in the party, we have just over 55% of women, which is the highest percentage in Estonia at all. You mentioned that women should be as focused as men. I can assure you that women are certainly the focus of our attention. You also said that young women make up about 70% of college students, but they are very little represented on the higher career ladders. What's it about? Does it talk about problems in our higher education or problems in our business environment or management environment? But here's my question. Our state companies are not currently boasting highly competent management, be it the Estonian Air or the Port of Tallinn. If we are now going to promote people to the councils, not on the basis of their competence, abilities and past achievements, but on the basis of their gender, what results will this bring to the people as owners?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U42	Thank you. At all levels of management, people should be involved primarily on the basis of their competences. However, let's go back to the fact that 70% of graduates with different degrees in higher education are women. So these women are competent, and is the current state of affairs not one indication that women do not reach the leadership level for any other reason than lack of competence. I think that, even if we begin to follow the principle that competence prevails first and foremost, women should be significantly increased in leadership.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U44	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U45	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! At the end of last year, in October and November, there was an active discussion in the Riigikogu about the future of the State Forest Management Centre. The Minister of Finance proposed to transform it into a company. An appropriate analysis by the Minister for the Environment has now been completed. He says that the arguments presented by the Minister of Finance are not competent and that RMK's work is not obstructed in any way. What is the official position of the government? Is the issue of replacing the form of a state-owned company discussed or what is your plan of action?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U46	Thank you for your question. We have indeed agreed to discuss whether the country's only legal entity operating in this format should continue in the same form or whether some other options are conceivable. The Ministry of the Environment, which has completed its analysis, has come to the conclusion that the form should not be changed. The Minister of Finance has time to shape his position until 15 February, so in five days' time we should also have an assessment by the Minister of Finance. The government will then be able to discuss this matter if necessary. In my opinion, what RMK does in its day-to-day work is more important than the legal format. I see very clearly the need for forest management activities, which in a sense can be regarded as an entrepreneurial activity. But besides that, I also see the need to popularise going to the forest, and this is largely not an activity that can be classified as entrepreneurship. RMK's table roads and overnight accommodations in the forest would certainly not be sustainable if self-sufficiency were carried out. In order to keep them, it is still necessary to subsidise the form and activities of the State profit-making association. After all, RMK brings great benefits to society. We will also discuss in the near future how we can manage Estonia's forests even better. There will also be issues related to this at the government meeting tomorrow. We know that the optimal volume of cutting of Estonian forests is 15 million cubic metres, but only about two thirds of it is actually cut.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U47	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U48	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Can you conclude from your answer that you are shaping a position with the government that is rather based on the fact that the less property the state has, including forest, the better? In the case of RMK, is it moving towards a grand privatisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U49	I don't know what kind of glass you had to look at to read that view of me. I didn't say anything like that. I think that having a state forest makes a very clear sense. The state forest must be maintained and managed, and public services that are not taken from people or symbolically taken from them must be provided in the future in addition to forest management activities. One example is the possibility of bringing a tree out of the state forest. I think that such services are all necessary in the future and, as has been the case so far, will continue to be subsidised by the State. I see no fundamental need to substantially change the relationship between state forest and private forest. I simply mentioned that in Estonia as a whole, experts in the field have assessed the optimal volume of felling from the point of view of forest management. They have noted that the current volume is close to two thirds of it. I believe that all people understand why it is also necessary to cut down the forest. Trees must not grow too old. So this felling is very logical, both ecologically and economically, and these issues need to be addressed. I have not heard about the privatisation of RMK, either in this or in any previous government. And I don't know that any opposition party has such plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U50	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U51	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! You said that RMK has great capacity to build and maintain all kinds of nature trails and observation towers. However, the case of Männikjärv shows that within three years, some steps could not be changed. But my question is based on an analysis carried out by the Minister for the Environment, who actually shares the things of the forest. His attitude is not to change the form so far, but the Minister of Finance, who only reads the bill, thinks otherwise. However, the decision taken by the government should be consensual. How do you put these things together?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U52	We have absolutely no need to speculate now on whether the Minister of Finance's position is different from that of the Minister for the Environment or not. If it should be different, it will always be possible to discuss it, as always when the government has to take a stand on a matter. For me, the legal form of RMK is not such an important issue that it should somehow be put ahead of the question of what the services provided by RMK are. I think we could talk about this first. If the legal form is to be changed, there must be some very, very important reason for this, for example, the aim of getting better funding. Since the Minister most directly responsible for RMK, the Minister for the Environment, has said that he does not see this need, I believe that the Minister of Finance should have the same position. But let's take it easy, we'll wait for the Minister of Finance's position, and then we'll discuss it soberly. I don't see any problem with us having this legal format at the moment. We have also used very different legal formats for other institutions established or owned by the state. Some hospitals, for example, are a foundation established by the state; some hospitals act as a public limited company. In practice, these differences are actually negligible; they come from a completely different form of ownership. So we still care about the things that are really important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U54	The next question is from Mailis Reps to Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! It is February and, as the educational people know, by 1 March, all decisions concerning the organisation of the school network must have been taken. Directly under the Ministry of Education and Research, there are a number of state schools. Since the reorganisation of Põltsamaa School came as a great surprise to many people in the educational landscape, I would ask you to explain the Ministry's plans in briefings before 1 March 2016. What state schools are to be closed and what schools are to be merged?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U56	I agree with you that February is at hand, but since the subject of your question was 'Education Policy', you obviously do not expect me to present you with any changes to the full list at the moment. I'd certainly be wrong about some facts, I'd definitely leave a lot of facts unchecked. However, I would like to ask you to formulate your question in some way before you pass it on. There is no surprise at Põltsamaa School. It is a professional school and decisions have been taken on this subject even before my term of office. No surprises, but there's a lot of changes. Yesterday, I believed I signed the final signatures on the closure of the three official schools in Ida-Virus, or rather, an apology, to unite them into a single administration. Tallinn Transport School joins another educational institution. But really, so don't ask about the facts, I don't want to be wrong to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U57	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U58	Thank you, good manager. I'm sure I'll remember a few more schools. I went to Vigala last week, and I don't know what their future is either. Maybe the Minister of Education knows what's going on in Vigala. However, the Prime Minister was quite confused to answer a question from one of our fellow Members, concerning private schools. Maybe you can explain now. If we look at what is happening around private schools, it is clear that ending public funding for private schools in this form is not acceptable to parents and also to education policy. How do you plan to draw up the 2017 budget? Will the current amount of funding for private schools be planned for the planned budget in May? Do you have any negotiations on this with the Ministry of Finance? And what plans do you have on this subject regarding the forthcoming major undertaking, the renewal of the Education Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U59	I didn't notice any crazy places in the Prime Minister's reply. The budgetary situation is that, of course, there are not a large number of millions in the budget, there is nowhere to take them, and there is no reason to take them anywhere to cover important expenditure on education. The design of the school network is, however, a function of the municipality, and only on this ground can this matter be resolved. I hope the Riigikogu takes full responsibility for this. This is usually called stealing when it is a very illogical financing scheme, when taxpayers' money changes owners without rules and more in private interests. I wouldn't use words that harsh. However, in essence, the state's priority in providing public services is to fund a private institution, with a focus on the automatic payment of its operating costs, guaranteed by law, which is now a matter of the question, it is not in any area. I have not found any example in any other area of the fact that any country without discretion is automatically funded by a private institution, covering its operating costs, to an even greater extent than the same public institution. This system cannot survive. I ask the Riigikogu to take this issue very seriously, otherwise the pay of teachers and the funding of science will suffer, which the municipalities are not involved with. The local governments agree with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U60	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U61	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! Before, state schools were vocational schools and vocational schools; now there is a new structure unit, state secondary schools. In vocational schools, the pay of general school teachers was usually 20% higher than in municipal schools, thus attracting more teachers. In addition to full funding of the cost of school meals, is there a 20% difference in teachers' salaries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U62	Thank you. Teachers' pay policies are the same regardless of the form of the school. If state upper secondary schools pay higher than municipal schools, it is because teachers are guaranteed full-time there. This is not always the case in municipal schools and private schools, because full load, however, means some kind of orientation: the number of students is calculated. I believe this orientation was 21 students in class, or it was 24, I have to check it out. But after-payment is not subject to ownership. In addition, municipalities can pay, of course private schools can pay, those with more funding opportunities can include private money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U63	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U64	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U65	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Today we were talking about the problem of restricting alcohol sales and advertising. But that's what I'm asking. We know that there are differences of opinion among the members of the Government of the Republic on how to move forward with it. Is the disagreement now over, or do we need more time? When will they be exceeded? And what is your prognosis when this bill will reach our tables?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U66	Thank you for your question. A very important subject indeed. I will start by saying that any national restriction must fulfil some specific objective. On this draft, I believe that the most important objective is that minors, children, cannot receive and consume alcohol. Another goal is to reduce excessive drinking. We have agreed in the government union that we want to reduce alcohol consumption to less than 8 litres of absolute alcohol per capita. This is quite a marked decrease compared to 2014, for example, when 9.85 litres of alcohol per capita were consumed in Estonia. As I said earlier, the safest way to reduce alcohol consumption is to increase excise duty. The price is the most important factor, according to each study, and we have a relatively strict excise policy agreed for several years. I'm sure you remember, we got the political opponents to fight for it, but I'm saying it's a purposeful measure. This reduces excessive alcohol consumption and is also likely to reduce children's alcohol consumption, which, as we know, is banned in Estonia and which we should not tolerate. We do not yet have the data for 2015, but the preliminary calculations of the Institute of Economics have been published. The average consumption of alcohol in 2015 is expected to fall below 9 litres per capita. So we're on a pretty good schedule. I hope that I will have the opportunity to answer the other side of your question in the next question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U67	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U68	Thank you. I would like to ask another question: is the problem of legalising cannabis also involved in the preparation of this draft, or will this issue be dealt with separately?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U69	As far as I know, the Minister of Health and Labour has not proposed any legalisation of cannabis. Now I can use the rest of my time to answer the other side of your first question. You were surprised that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure and the Minister for Justice had drawn attention to the shortcomings of the draft on this issue. In itself, there is nothing unusual about it. The problem is simply that the procedure of the draft was started a little at the wrong end. In such cases, if a detailed political input is needed, it is generally reasonable that the minister comes first to the government office, reaches a political agreement there, and then, in the course of official coordination, even the smallest details will be laid down. At the moment, we have begun the 'official coordination' cycle and the cabinet meeting we will bring this issue as soon as possible. The Minister of Health and Labour and I have agreed that this will come to the office and that we can clear all these things up. In the coalition, in itself, we do not have any differences of opinion on this issue. It is clear that restricting the availability and consumption of alcohol to a reasonable degree is necessary. My personal experience as Minister of Social Affairs is, as colleagues have already rightly pointed out here, on my initiative this Green Paper was once introduced into government, that restrictions can be applied to all kinds, but from among them, those that actually work must be screened out and focused on them. It's not reasonable to do a lot of restrictions just because of fashion. Let's focus on things that actually work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U70	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U71	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You pointed out earlier that among the proposals made by Minister Ossinovski were those that were not agreed in the Green Paper. Would you like to clarify the proposals that are not set out in the Green Paper on alcohol policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U72	It is not, in itself, a disagreement on very large and general principles. For example, this draft suggests that there might be a possibility that TV advertising scenarios would be written by a scriptwriter appointed by the State. The logic and bearing idea of the Green Paper is rather that so-called lifestyle advertising should not be allowed, for example, that alcohol is portrayed as an indispensable prerequisite for partying and success. That is what the coalition has agreed on. According to my memory, the Green Paper does not state that the partitions of stores must necessarily be opaque. This would result in even tens of millions of costs for large chains and costs for ordinary smaller shops likely to amount to tens of thousands of euros. There is, however, an agreement and also the principle of the Green Paper that alcohol should be sold in a separate area. This separate area can also be arranged in such a way that there are no cyproc and concrete partitions around it, behind which additional security controls, additional surveillance etc. are also needed. Such things can be regarded as details, but for some, they are quite fundamental details. On one point, I believe that there is a consensus among the political parties in the government union: this is the idea of banning the outdoor advertising of alcohol. In the future, lifestyle advertising and alcohol advertising could also be banned with clear warnings that it is a health harmful product. Several other adverts have these warnings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U73	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U74	The next question is for the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! In September 2013, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications prepared the "Estonian Entrepreneurship Growth Strategy 2014-2020," a very important and meaningful document. It also identifies three major areas for business growth. You know them very well, they are information and communication technologies, sustainable use of resources, health technologies and services. By 2016, how far have we come to support these areas of growth? I mean, how well have measures financed from structural resources been implemented, particularly smart specialisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U76	Yes, these areas were introduced in 2013 and one important reason was that the use of Structural Funds money is also a prerequisite for the state to have designated areas of smart specialisation. The reason is that, under limited resources, money cannot be diverted everywhere. We need to consider where we can be directed, and we will focus on areas where the country has the greatest potential for growth. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Education and Research have developed five measures for the years 2014 to 2020 to invest specifically in the priority development of growth areas. The Ministry of Education and Research will receive 42 million for applied research, 25 million for professional scholarships. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications goes into a network of 50 million, a demand side policy, which is then, above all, innovation-supporting public procurement, 20 million and the start-up programme takes 7 million. In addition, our Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has a "smart focus" of one fifth of all measures: one fifth of 354 million, or EUR 77 million, goes precisely to implement measures aimed at smart specialisation. So it is precisely those areas where we can expect great growth that we support throughout. But since this period has actually just begun, it is still difficult for me to report the results. I believe that when this period ends, we can talk about very clear results, how we have helped growth areas to develop at a significantly faster pace in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U77	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U78	Thank you. Madam Minister, I would like to clarify this question. Indeed, this period has only just begun, but has smart specialisation measures now opened up to all applicants and has access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises also been granted through these calls for proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U79	To a large extent, these measures have recently opened up, some opening up this spring. So everything hasn't opened yet. But our focus in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is to give priority to small and medium-sized enterprises. So this objective clearly exists, as does the regional aspect. These are the opportunities we have as a country, and we have used them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U80	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U81	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister for Enterprise, One of the main tasks of the government and the Minister of Enterprise is to ensure the competitiveness of Estonian entrepreneurs. Two weeks ago, the Prime Minister here claimed that the increase in excise duties on fuel will not raise our fuel prices to higher than in Latvia. As of yesterday, for example, the litre of diesel was 10 cents more expensive than in Latvia, which in itself makes sense: if we have 14% excise duty and 2% in Latvia, that is the logical result. How do you intend to proceed with excise policy? This question is not only about fuel, it is also about alcohol and tobacco, because under the conditions of an open market, money is moving out of Estonia. Are you thinking of reviewing excise policy in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U82	Thank you. This question goes a little out of the scope of the pre-set topic, the subject of the question was business growth areas and smart specialisation. Excise policy is certainly very important. Exactly, this can help to solve some of the major problems. The government deals with excise policy on a regular basis. The state budget negotiations will begin shortly, which will deal with both revenue and expenditure. But to comment on Latvia's fuel prices, I should have prepared myself for that earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U83	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Thanks to the MPs and cabinet members for their pleasant cooperation! For more than a long time, all members of the Riigikogu who registered yesterday were able to submit their questions. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U84	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I have an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal, concerning road conditions or, rather, the maintenance of roads on important national roads. Recently, several accidents have occurred with victims on these roads and it has become apparent that although a regulation has been issued in the country, which also provides for the preventive maintenance of such roads, the Road Administration has not concluded such contracts. We wonder why this has not been done, why the state is not fulfilling its own commitments and who is responsible for this disorder. Of course, we can always say that a driver who did not choose the speed appropriate to the road conditions is responsible for the accident. But that is not an argument when we talk about human lives. This is clearly about the unfinished work of the state and someone should find out why this has happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U86	No more wishes. Inquiry goes to work in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 85 members of the Riigikogu are in session, missing 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U87	First reading of the Bill 157 of the Maintenance Copy initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Culture Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I hereby have the opportunity to present to you the draft conservation copy of the law which replaces the law on the compulsory copy adopted in 1997, if the Riigikogu thinks so. The purpose of the draft is to update the assignment, collection and preservation of publications that are important for Estonian culture. By drafting the conservation copy of the law, the task of the government's programme of action is to support the collection and making available of cultural heritage for the preservation of Estonian language and culture through central memory institutions. The draft has also taken into account the comments made in the National Audit Office's report of 9 April 2008 entitled "Completing Research and Archive Libraries." I will now explain the main changes that will result from the adoption of the law, and briefly give an overview of the points which will generally remain the same compared to the current law. Firstly, the draft takes into account future digital developments and covers publications irrespective of their form and the way in which they are disseminated. In addition to this, the most important change is the handing over of printed material and the original material of the film and making it easier for citizens to access it. The National Library is in the process of completing the development of the Publisher's Portal and its part of the electronic delivery system, which will become a tool for publishers to upload the digital storage copy and manage the rights to use and access the publications. Publishers will be able to download their files for reuse as well as monitor statistics on the use of their publications. The source material of digitally created publications and publications is stored only by the National Library of Estonia and the National Archives of the film. Secondly, as a result of the above, the number of publications to be collected and maintained will be reduced from eight to four and the number of libraries receiving the conservation copy will be changed. If ten copies of the library are now available, there are four such libraries according to the bill: the National Library of Estonia, the Library of the University of Tartu, the Academic Library of Tallinn University and the Archive Library of the Estonian Literary Museum. The larger libraries are no longer intended to send preservation copies of the publication to the Library of Tallinn University of Technology. Third, the arrangements for the assignment of publications change. From now on, all publications and digital source material, with the exception of the original material of the film, will be surrendered to the National Library of Estonia or collected in web-archivation by the National Library of Estonia. The costs associated with the transfer of the copy of the copy are still borne by the giver, but the costs of forwarding publications on physical medium to other libraries will in future be borne by the National Library of Estonia. Thus, the National Library of Estonia will coordinate the collection of publications, including the provision of instructions to the givers to store copies and to compile statistics on conservation copies. The original film material is registered and statistics are compiled by the National Archives. The creation of a single centre will reduce, for example, the administrative burden for publishers and printing works to dispose of publications, as currently the copies to be transferred will be sent to five libraries. The draft thus reduces unnecessary administrative burden and duplication and saves resources. Fourthly, the use of storage copies becomes clearer and easier. Currently, the basis for the use of the conservation copy is set out in the internal rules of the libraries. The draft provides for the use of publications, such as preservation copies of publications, as well as online publications and basic material, on a physical medium. While storage copies are placed in a storage facility of four libraries instead of ten, the possibility for readers to access the publication increases, as digital content allows for more modern access for users. Once authorised by the copyright holder, the online publication and the original material may also be made available to the public on the Internet. Once the rightholder has set usage restrictions, the digital archive can use these storage copies in customized computer terminals. The availability of digital and digitally generated publications from these computer terminals is improving, extending from two to five libraries. In addition to existing jobs in the National Library of Estonia and the Library of the University of Tartu, jobs will be created in the Archives Library of the Estonian Literary Museum, the Academic Library of Tallinn University and the Library of Tallinn University of Technology. Collecting digital files will also make it possible to improve the availability of publications for visually impaired persons in the near future, as prerequisites for the development of the digital archive of the Estonian National Library and the web library of the library of blind people will be created. A number of conditions apply to publications to be surrendered, which generally remain the same compared to the current law. As in the current law, a publication must be surrendered if the number of copies is more than 50 and the publication is distributed in Estonia or outside the Republic of Estonia. Surrenders of the conservation copy are also still producers and issuers of natural and legal persons. The same time period shall be allowed for the assignment of publications, which shall be no later than 20 days after the production of the first part of the circulation or for the first time available to the public. A longer surrender period is on the film's original material, which will be surrendered within one year of the premiere. The adoption of the Act will give impetus to the development of e-Estonia and content services. If the bill is passed as a law, Estonia will be the first country where the law obliges you to collect and store all publications digitally. This will also provide the basis for the best digital archives of cultural heritage in the world. The planned date of entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2017. Thank you for your attention. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U89	The first question, to which the Minister can gladly answer, is asked by Peter Ernits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U90	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Interesting reading, but one thing caught my eye. Our Minister of Justice has stressed that the drafting of a draft law must be preceded by an intention to develop it. When you read the explanatory memorandum to this draft, the Tartu University Library notes that the design plan has not been made. The drafters say that it was not really necessary, as in 2013 there was an identical draft on the coordination circle. At the same time, it is known that there is no need for a development plan in cases of urgency, implementation of the European Union Directive, state budget law or the conclusion of an external agreement. My question is why this draft has not drawn up a plan of development.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U91	It seems to me that the honourable member of the Riigikogu actually answered this question in the introduction to his question. This is a draft act, which was already launched when the development plan was not foreseen in the established procedure. It made no sense to go back in time, to recall the draft and to start again with the intention of drafting it, once the draft had already been drawn up. In addition, the National Audit Office has pointed out that we do not use our resources in the most rational way, and it is impossible to dispute that. We agree. As a result, we see no other option than to deal more effectively with this bill, as noted by the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U92	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear colleague, Minister Indrek Saar! This draft includes not only publications but also the archiving of films. Filmmakers have waited quite a long time for this to really preserve their material in a modern film archive. It is quite natural that films born with state support are kept in the state archives, not only their final option, but also their source materials. I've visited Swedish film archives. Unfortunately, it is extremely embarrassing for us to invite Swedish or Finnish visitors to Estonia and show our archives, because the storage conditions there are still very far from ensuring that they are preserved. Are there funds for expanding the film archives, improving and modernising the conditions there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U94	Thank you for your question. We work every day to increase the capacity to bring these archives to better shape. The point of this bill is that we spend less resources on duplication of activities and that we can use more resources to digitise the legacy that we already have and not spend money on building ever larger warehouses. After all, our cultural layer is growing at a considerable rate. If we can store a great deal in the form of original digital copies in the future, it will save a great deal of storage space and investment, as well as administrative costs, as well as the resource that would otherwise be needed to make digital copies of the original material. If we look at the overall situation, then the journals that are waiting for digitisation, we have about 330,000, so far we have been able to digitize a little over 2%. The fact that we will be able to retrieve digital raw material immediately in the future means that we will not accumulate new material that should be digitised in the future. This is a significant saving of time and resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U95	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, This is a very important and necessary bill. It is clear that it is important for Estonian culture to have as complete as possible all that contains our spiritual cultural heritage. This draft also provides for a new advisory body, which should begin to define the categories of publications not to be collected. Please tell me whether it is necessary to set up a separate council for this. Perhaps we could trust the specialists of the National Library of Estonia in making these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U97	This is a question that the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu could discuss peacefully during the work. Indeed, we need to think about who is best placed to make the thoughtful decision that is worth preserving and what is not. Just as the form of production of publications and films changes very quickly in time, the understanding of what must be preserved in the archives of national culture is likely to change. This discretion certainly must be exercised by someone, but in what form, it is indeed a forum for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U98	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U99	Good manager! Good minister! The current procedure is that the issuer sends its storage copy directly to the storer. According to your draft, it must first be sent to the distribution centre near the National Library in Tallinn. If you look at the new regime from the point of view of South-Estonia's producers, all of South-Estonia's printing production must be sent to Tallinn, unpacked and reviewed and some sent back to Tartu again. In the same building as the Library of the University of Tartu there is a publishing house of Ilmamaa, whose production must be sent to Tallinn, unpacked and returned. Do you think this is a wise arrangement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U100	Thanks, that's a very good question. Working arrangements are not regulated at the level of the law. At the level of the law, it regulates who is responsible. The obligation is that the original material and the storage copies must be transmitted to one collector instead of the current five. This will make life easier for many and save costs and time for smaller publishers and printing works in particular. It is possible to agree that South-Estonian publishers and printing works are about one third of them; two thirds of them are concentrated in North-Estonia; their maintenance copies can also be delivered directly there in the future with the agreement of the University of Tartu Library. The law does not provide for any restrictions. The important thing is that the law says who is responsible, and that is the national library.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U101	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Undoubtedly, the purpose of this law is to preserve and ensure the availability of publications and original materials that are important from the point of view of Estonian culture. The draft provides for the collection of only the source material of publications and films, but not the source material of music. Here it is pointed out that the criteria concerning the basic material of music will also be developed. Why is that? After all, music is very important to us, and its availability and preservation must be guaranteed. Why hasn't it been included in the bill, and when can we get there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U103	Since it is slightly different from the traditional archiving of publications and films, at first there is indeed no clear and one good solution. That is why, unfortunately, I am indebted to the answer here when we can propose a good solution for preserving music. I hope that the near future will provide clarity in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U104	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U105	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! The explanatory memorandum says that the number of so-called authorised jobs will be increased and will be five instead of two libraries. Could you explain to the incompetent a little bit whether this is enough and why it's five?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U106	In itself, the digitally collected raw material provides an opportunity to see and use all of this online, and the ideal situation would be this. There is a problem with that. This is copyright-related concerns, i.e. the desire of publishers to ensure that copyrights are protected and that basic digital material cannot be misused or reproduced innumerable times without paying royalties. Thus, the compromise found is that there will be five authorised jobs, i.e. computer jobs where you can access such basic materials. These are the five we have agreed on at the moment, and hopefully they will be added in the future. We do not know how the whole world will develop and when copyright protection will take a completely different form. Today, it is a compromise that instead of two libraries, there will be five authorised jobs. There, everyone will have access to all the remains, and at the same time it will be ensured that no one can copy them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U107	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. The Commission's rapporteur is Mr Aadu Must, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U108	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed the same draft on 18 January. The presentation was made by the esteemed Minister of Culture, who spoke as thoroughly and as well as he did today. It can be said in advance that the debate that followed was active and constructive, a number of important questions were put. The Minister has already opened up the whole of the law and I have only a few aspects to mark that were not strongly highlighted. Well, the Commission and the Ministry may have some different points of approach, and they actually have to be a little different. Of course, the most important objective of this law is the protection of our national memory. There have been many randomities and disappearances in this area. At the same time, I would like to stress that national memory is not only the foundation of national culture, but also, in some ways, significant real capital. This becomes evident when we compare, for example, the experiences of neighbouring countries. Without going into nuances, I don't have to lecture for 45 minutes here, I only say that, for example, the Finnish state has become the most important memory bearer of the Russian Empire, thanks to the skilful use of the conservation copy or the law on the compulsory copy, and, sorry, also as a seller of the Russian Empire. What I'm saying is that the bill has a number of well-sympathetic outputs. Firstly, according to this law, the National Library becomes the library through which all the printed and tagged national memory is stored, described and used. I would also like to add that we have taken a major step forward, both economically and in the development of digital technology and information technology. All of this has been done smoothly thanks to good work. A good colleague, Peeter Ernits, asked a very good question as to whether we are now going to move the books back and forth between Tartu and Tallinn. I think we really need to think this through. Jaan Tõnisson, a famous politician of Tartu, said that Estonia is too big to accept one province, there must be at least three of them. The division of labour is, of course, practical and necessary, but the important thing is that all the books go one way and everyone gets a high-quality record. The practice I have experienced so far has led, for example, to the fact that three or four significantly different entries were recorded by six bookkeepers for the same book. Some of them were not of high quality. So there will certainly be an increase in quality. Of course, this law is a matter of different interest groups whose interests are sometimes contradictory. This was mentioned in this Chamber and the Commission is also familiar with it. It is clear that the publisher is not interested in a very wide range of products. A lot of potential buyers aren't buying a book then, are they? In this respect, we have checked it! A rather sympathetic agreement has been reached. Publishers, for example, have accepted a favor in return. If a publisher wants to reprint his popular book, but suddenly discovers that either the mouse or someone else has eaten the file on the computer and therefore does not have a quality copy of it, then the publisher can use this free electronic archiving service. He can print that text again. By the way, it has also found an application and is therefore very useful. Dubbing is decreasing, quality is rising, national memory is under control and maintained. The protection of different interests is balanced and effective in demonstrating a technical success story. I may not go any further now, or I will, in other words, repeat what the Minister has already said. Maybe just one last piece. Of course, in the Committee on Culture, we are in the habit of sure that he who deals with the draft will also check whether everything that is in the explanatory memorandum has been done. I've checked. Some institutions were muddy that at first they were not involved. But I asked if they were satisfied with the outcome. And the most important libraries, archives, and publishers confirmed that they were eventually involved and satisfied with the outcome. The committee decided by consensus to advise the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U109	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Aadu Black! I'm opening negotiations. Mark Soosaar, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We Social Democrats also welcome this draft. I have also personally encountered archival problems and I think that a very long step forward is being taken. Let me give you a few examples. In different ages, the creators themselves, but also the censors, have considered it necessary to destroy certain materials, or some things have not been regarded as valuable enough to preserve it. Sometimes, in the context of its era, it may seem that some material has no value for creating a new film or putting together a new book. But time does its job. What seems worthless today can be particularly valuable in years or decades' time. When I was making a film for the 50th anniversary of the United Nations and for Ernst Jaakson's 90th birthday and for his 75th anniversary of diplomacy, I found some footage in the UN archives that no one had ever used in any film before. In fact, the Rockefellers bought a plot of land from the city of New York, where the United Nations headquarters were built. You all know this building, it is there that Estonia has also been accepted as a member of the United Nations. In the archives in the basement of this house, film footage was from this place before the building was erected. If you're watching Mission Impossible, the main character of which is Ernst Jaakson, you'll find out that this place once had a slaughterhouse. In one frame, you can see how the building, instead of the United Nations main building, is being driven to the slaughter of a herd of animals. Everything that has happened in the meantime turns one ordinary archive material into a cultural asset. It's time for this job. There are other images in the same film that had not been used before. Apparently, the UN considered this material to be a scrape, and the operator set it aside as unusable. In 1961, when John Kennedy appeared in the United Nations, there were devices that had to replace the lenses. Once Kennedy was targeted closer, then further away, then Kennedy quite close: the camera was accidentally right above his heart. We know what happened to John Kennedy two years later, and so these images turned out to be very symbolic and graphic in creating a new film. So, in any case, our group welcomes the proposal to conclude the first reading of this draft. We boldly move to third reading and try to complete the victorious end of the digitisation and archiving of Estonian national memory! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U111	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U112	Mr. Chairman! Honourable ambassadors! Mr. Minister! The law, the name of which is the law on the conservation copy, is intended to replace the law in force since 1997 and currently in force on the compulsory copy. Is the new bill reasonable and necessary? Yes, it is reasonable and necessary because time, conditions and circumstances around us have changed profoundly. No cosmetic amendments to the current law on the coercive would give us the guarantees and certainty we need to preserve our cultural heritage in order to preserve it in digital form. Is it reasonable and necessary to change the name of the law? I dare say that such a change of name is reasonable and necessary. Why? First of all, because the preservation of the people's cultural heritage is the responsibility of all parties, both creators, publishers, distributors, producers and preservers. And the term 'Law of the Preservation Copy' best reflects the spirit of this law. The most innovative in this bill is the emergence of a digital archive, the preservation of a digitally created cultural heritage, including the preservation of important cultural websites. So far, the National Library has mainly tried to preserve the culture created digitally, but it has always taken place on the basis of agreements and on the basis of separate negotiations. Now we have a legal basis for this. This digital world is part of our common cultural heritage now and certainly needs to be preserved. There is only one question relating to this draft, which we are probably still contemplating in the Committee on Culture. This is the number of copies kept. In the meantime, we will retain eight so-called "mandatory copies" for future generations, which will be kept in five libraries. The new draft law aims to reduce the number of copies to four. Four in itself is a perfectly reasonable number, because preservation is an expensive thing just because it requires resources, requires spaces, requires labor, etc. It is a question for me, above all, of an additional copy. Why can't there be five preserved copies? This fifth copy would be sent to one of our scientific libraries according to the field. This would ensure that this law works not only for the purpose of preservation but also for the purpose of education and culture. Thus, the fifth copy would be sent to the University of Life Sciences, Tallinn University of Technology, Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, Estonian Academy of Arts or Tallinn University. Where does this figure come from, that it is certainly necessary to keep four copies? These justifications are currently somewhat weak in the explanatory memorandum, in particular because reference is made to the 2008 audit of the National Audit Office, but the situation has changed a lot since 2008. We should think once again whether these institutions of higher education do not need a single coercion in order to work, study and educate people both for the sake of Estonian science and the preservation of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U113	There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the Committee on Culture is to conclude the first reading of draft 157. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 25 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U114	We will begin the first reading of Bill 163 of Amendment to the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U115	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The aim of this draft is one and clear: to transpose the European Union Directive governing the activities of collecting societies and the cross-border use of musical works. The birth of this draft will take us back in February 2014, when a directive was adopted in the European Union, which will primarily organise the fundamental principles of collective management organisations' activities at European Union level. We have no other purpose than to insert this directive into the bookshelf of Estonian law. It must be said that this directive is very detailed and of a binding nature. The main issue, i.e. the basis for collecting societies' activities, has been addressed quite thoroughly in this draft. It must be said that this directive was inspired by significant differences in the activities of collecting societies, as well as problems that have arisen in relation to the lack of transparency and accountability of organisations. In addition, cross-border issues related to the management of copyright have emerged increasingly strongly. In this area, the Directive provides very specific binding solutions. To a large extent, the amendments to the Copyright Act to be amended under this Directive can be divided into three groups. Firstly, it will lay down uniform standards for the collective management of copyright and related rights. They concern governance, financial management, reporting and exchange of information. Most of these issues have been introduced into Estonian law as a novelty. Associations acting as collecting societies in Estonia are the Association of Estonian Authors, the Association of Estonian Performers, the Association of Estonian Phonogram Producers and the Association of Estonian Audiovisual Authors. The second block of amendments concerns the setting of conditions for multi-territorial licensing of the right to use musical works online. What does that mean? This means that in the past it was necessary to apply for these licences separately from all the Member States of the European Union, a total of 28. It is sufficient to apply for one multi-territorial pan-European licence to implement the new Directive. Challenging is not allowed in all countries individually. And the third block: the Directive requires the establishment of a mechanism for national supervision of collecting societies. We have chosen the model that creates the least specific administrative burden. The area of copyright is currently dealt with by the Ministry of Justice, and there is also the Copyright Commission. The Justice Department will be in charge of this oversight. There was a debate on this, including with stakeholders, in particular collecting societies, whether there should be a separate body to deal with the issues of these organisations in relation to supervision and disputes. We didn't think it was reasonable. The existing Committee on Copyright as a conciliation body within the meaning of the Conciliation Act can also resolve these issues. In general, however, this is a piece of legislation in which our ideological choices were already made before the directive was drawn up. It is now Parliament's competence to implement this directive, as I emphasised, in a highly detailed and binding way, the Estonian legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U116	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Heidi Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U117	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question of amending this law, which is primarily about the collective representation organisations you mentioned. If, when this directive is implemented, some of these organisations do not meet the criteria set, what will happen to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U118	The law must be complied with, and in that case there are two options. However, the assumption is that these collecting societies will bring their activities into line with this law. If they do not do so, but continue to carry out the functions of the collecting society, they must be supervised by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the draft, as I said. Of course, he will apply all this power under the law in the light of the fact that the law must be applied in a human way and considered in all circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U119	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U120	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the target group of our collecting societies is so small that, at the social level, the impact of the law can be considered rather insignificant. But it really is a beautiful and comprehensive Euro Directive, so open up a little bit of this background. For example, we have a new multi-territorial licensing framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U121	Thank you. Indeed, the granting of multi-territorial licences is a result of EU law already in force. Above all, we are talking about a multi-territorial online music market. These licences can be applied for, but, as I said, they must be applied for in all Member States separately so far. It seems in every respect and in the interests of both authors and all consumers that this market is wider, and it has therefore been decided to make the right to use musical works online uniform. It is certainly important that all online service providers who own musical works and allow consumers to download music or listen to it by means of streaming must first acquire the right to use musical works. This also applies to other services providing access to films or games in which music is an important element. This is the starting point for this collective licence regulation. However, as far as the core of this directive is really concerned, the question is, in principle, that, above all, the circle of "interested persons" or persons with conditional rights is precisely those who are represented by collective organisations, at least theoretically. This regulation is needed in order to prevent abuse, waste of money and lack of transparency. There have been no very dramatic cases in Estonia, but in the larger countries, hundreds of orders of money are bigger than ours, and then they have more troubles.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U122	No further questions. The waitress for the Cultural Commission is Heidy Purga. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Minister mentioned in his presentation of this directive, this Directive was adopted on 26 February 2014 under number 2014/26/EU. It organises and harmonises at European Union level the principles governing the activities of collecting societies and establishes monitoring of their activities. The main aim of this legislation is to ensure greater transparency for collecting societies and to oblige them to report to their members and right holders. In addition, this Directive provides very specific guidelines for the exercise of rights across borders, with a view to freedom of choice for rightholders. For example, according to Note 4 of the Directive, collecting societies established in the Union must have the right to exercise the freedoms provided for by the Treaty on European Union, representing rightholders resident or established in another Member State, or granting licences to users resident or established in another Member State. For the first time, regulation establishing a common regime for granting multi-territorial licences for the online use of musical works has also been introduced. This draft is designed to transpose the provisions of the Directive into the Estonian Copyright Act. The Estonian Copyright Act has so far not included all relevant details concerning collecting societies or national supervision of these organisations. There is also a new framework for multi-territorial licensing. This directive is extremely detailed in setting various standards and the provisions it contains are mandatory in all Member States. At its meeting on 19 January, the Committee on Culture listened to the Minister of Justice's overview of draft 163. Questions were asked. Like who's gonna be monitoring. A specialist at the Ministry of Justice replied that this was the Ministry of Justice. They also asked where more detailed information could be obtained on the amendment of this law. We were told that collecting societies had an obligation to make detailed information available to their users for a certain period of time, in particular on their website. The Committee on Culture decided by consensus to propose that the first reading be completed on 10 February, ending the first reading and setting ten working days for the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U124	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You read well several sentences from the summary of the explanatory statement. But I'm asking the same question as the Minister of Justice. For us, the new framework for granting multi-territorial licences is in this draft. Maybe you can explain to us in the language of the country what it means.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U126	This was not discussed in more detail in the Committee on Culture. We will discuss this in more detail at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U127	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. With regard to draft 163, the Committee on Culture has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U128	Now this is a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Accepting the National Development Plan for the Use of Stone in 2016 to 2030' presented by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the initiative is Marko Pomerants, Minister for the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U129	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Good hall! I had beautiful colors, too, but I didn't act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and they didn't get here in time. But I promise you, with the help of the Committee on the Environment, you will be able to enjoy them in the same way, simply as additional material. When I was driving here, I heard that there was a sharp debate on whether or not the Riigikogu should support the development plan for the use of oil shale. What I propose, at the end of the presentation. Dear Riigikogu! You have received a National Development Plan for oil shale use prepared by the Ministry of the Environment for the years 2016 to 2030. The first oil shale development plan was established in the Ministry of the Environment for the years 2008 to 2015. The development plan was drawn up in 2006-2008 and maintained its intended period of validity, despite the fact that at first the electricity market was not exactly forecasted to open up in 2013 nor to increase oil production so much. Now it is time to approve a new development plan. The overall objective of the development plan for the use of oil shale is to make effective and sustainable use of oil shale and to ensure the sustainable development of the oil shale sector. To this end, it is necessary to focus over the next 15 years on ensuring that oil shale mining and exploitation is more efficient and that the negative environmental impact associated with it is reduced and that oil shale education and research activities are developed. At present, more than a third of the oil shale stock remains underground for underground mining, and we are able to recover up to a maximum of 40% of the resulting waste. The ash mountains of the shale industry grow by 8 million tonnes a year, of which we recycle less than 5%. All three indicators need to move towards better. In cooperation with universities and businesses, solutions need to be found to ensure that public property is used in a way that brings maximum benefit. The oil shale sector and related industries are characterised by the need for large investments and the long return on investment. The emerging electricity market and growing oil production capacities compete with the oil shale value through the relevant product on the international market. Thus, the use and enhancement of oil shale is influenced not only by the world's macroeconomic trends, but also by Estonia's operating environment. Changing production capacities created in this sector is costly and time-consuming. Adapting regional employment to changing conditions also requires time. These are the trends with which both the state and oil shale processors gradually adapt. Although the environmental situation in Virumaa has significantly improved over the last ten years due to the measures taken by companies and the state, the emissions of air have decreased, waste has been invested in the elimination of residual pollution, waste is partly recovered, the draft development plan, based on the environmental impact assessment, leaves 20 million tonnes per year fixed in the Riigikogu for oil shale annual mining, at least until the end of 2020. This amount of mining will ensure the security of supply of oil shale on the production capacities already built and planned for the production of electricity and oil shale oil during this period and will help to ensure that the expected environmental impact of the oil shale sector is not increased compared to the current one. The development plan plans that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the negative social effects of oil shale mining and processing will be assessed and the possibilities of reducing them analysed, also taking into account the impact on human health. On average, 15 million tonnes of oil shale have been extracted annually over the last five years. The results of the impact indicators of the development plan, i.e. indicators, will be analysed after five years in order to acknowledge changes in technology, market conditions, environmental requirements and the environmental impact observed. An increase in the annual rate allowed for mining can only be possible if this need is based on a real market situation and does not create a conflict with environmental requirements. Over the next few years, it will be important to analyse the damage caused to the living and natural environment of the oil shale industry in a comprehensive manner and to identify the ecological footprint of the oil shale sector. Then we can agree in society on the level of negative effects we accept, which oil shale industry must compensate for. The National Audit Office has pointed out that few studies and analyses have been carried out before putting together the development plan. The answer is that data are available for the development plan. In 2012, the Ministry of the Environment commissioned a research project that gave a detailed overview of oil shale mining, use, export and import of products, and the origin and environmental impact of mining waste. The research assessed the research lines needed to prepare the oil shale development plan and analysed possible future scenarios for oil shale mining and use. On the basis of the results of the work, a number of proposals and recommendations were put forward for the development plan for the use of oil shale. The development plan was also drawn up on the basis of the results of the strategic environmental impact assessment and the results of applied research carried out in the implementation of the current development plan, such as the impact of oil shale mining on wildlife and groundwater. The National Audit Office has also pointed out that the indicators of the impact of the development plan on measuring the implementation of the objectives are not ambitious enough. I'll explain. The development plan has been drawn up by a working group involving highly experienced experts, together with an advisory committee. According to these proposals and the results of the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA), the impact indicators are derived from the principle that the reality of the oil shale sector and the known future requirements are based on the principle that companies are not designing utopian requirements that, given current technology, would make it impossible for the oil shale industry to exist. The question has arisen as to whether the draft oil shale development plan takes into account the conclusions of the Paris climate conference. As international climate policy requires a significant reduction of greenhouse gases, the oil shale development plan also foresees investment in research and technological development, leading to a reduction in air emissions from the oil shale sector and waste from mining and processing. There is a significant need to increase the recovery of waste. Therefore, all possible mitigation measures should be taken, in particular to maintain the groundwater status of the area affected by oil shale mining. It is necessary to continue to eliminate the legacy effects and residual pollution caused by the oil shale sector in the past. All of this requires an in-depth analysis of the intended mitigation measures and an assessment of the economic viability of these measures. In addition to creating added value, increasing employment and tax revenue, the oil shale industry generates more than 75% of the total environmental charges in Estonia. This is because the environmental use of the oil shale industry, for example, in the case of pumped-out water, waste dumping or contamination, is still substantial in addition to other sectors. However, the remuneration paid to the local authorities to compensate for the disturbance caused by mining will help to invest in the development of the region. More than 80% of the environmental charges from the oil shale industry will be received by the State, including the Environmental Investment Centre, which will help to support green investment and innovation in society. These funds will also need to be better targeted for the development of the oil shale industry. The cost of implementing the development plan for the use of oil shale is estimated at EUR 20 million. It is financed from the state budget, the Environmental Investment Centre and the European Union Structural Funds. The development plan includes activities financed through other ministries, previously approved development plans or other strategic documents. This cost is not included in the above-mentioned cost forecast. We are expected to have more to contribute over the next 15 years to ensuring the sustainability of the oil shale sector and reducing the environmental impact by supporting needs-based R &amp; D. Honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U130	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, There's a lot of development plans. How does this development plan relate to other thematic development plans that we have, such as the development plan for the energy economy, the development plan for Ida-Viru County, plans for the use of mineral resources, etc.? Given that oil shale is not, to put it mildly, a particularly efficient mineral resource, how many oil shale development plans do you think after what we are discussing today could come in Estonia or even come in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U132	Thanks! If you look at the text of the national development plan for the use of this oil shale, you will see that there, after the introduction, the talk begins about how this development plan could relate to other development plans until the development plan for nature conservation. I think there's going to be another development plan. The question is how long this development plan should be carried out for 2031....
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U133	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question relates to one of the statements you made in your report. The fact that a third of oil shale remains underground in mining, which is a serious and complex problem. Unfortunately, the document does not provide much detail on how to improve the efficiency of mining. Maybe you can tell us about your vision. Or did I miss something?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U135	Thanks! I'm trying to explain. The simple logic is that the losses in the excavation process are significantly smaller because the coating is removed and the remaining oil shale layer can be removed by an excavator. If we are to extract underground, using today's technology, we need to leave the whole thing in order to keep the mine from collapsing. That's where the 30% comes from. The question is, how can this percentage be reduced? There are two options. Maybe in some place, it's a flak, some place, filling back the caverns. But we simply do not have the level of readiness to implement these changes. As regards, for example, the extraction of phosphorite or the plans that were made in the 1980s, one such discussion place was the same refilling with, for example, oil shale ash, ash blends or whatever. Research is underway, but we're not good enough yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U136	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Research has shown that Estonian oil shale oil can produce Euro 5 compliant diesel fuel through hydrogen treatment. I would also like to see this objective in the development plan, but unfortunately I did not find it in the draft. My question is quite specific. Why has this development plan not dealt with the possibility of producing Estonian oil shale oil diesel fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U138	Thanks! Now the question is how thoroughly you looked at this bill. I wouldn't mind the poison, but I think the refining plans for two companies are in the development plan. Why hasn't it come up with a deeper approach? I think the reason is the real situation. To get these plans back on the table, the world market for oil shale oil or oil should simply be at a different level. I think that, regardless of whether or not this trend is stated in the development plan, if it is economically possible, companies are going back to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U139	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I also looked at the development plan for the years 2008 to 2015 and I have to admit that I really liked it more. Why? Because it sets out very specific objectives, plans for how these objectives will be implemented, and also annual expenditure. Why are they not so thoroughly addressed in this development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U141	Thanks! When we think about the period that this development plan deals with for the next 15 years, and look at two or three years ago, we see what changes real life has brought. All kinds of experts have analysed the market prices of all kinds of CO2 and the price of the same oil barrel on the world market, but this has not been very successful. The development plan can only provide a general trend. I think we can produce specificity, because the development plan says that every five years it will be reviewed. That's where this specificity can come from. If the development plan in the Riigikogu, as I expect, is received beautifully, then the Government of the Republic will approve the implementation plan, where there is already more specificity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U142	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U143	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with my colleague Kersti Sarapuu on the subject of the previous oil shale development plan. There were three strategic objectives, including increasing the efficiency of oil shale mining and use and reducing the environmental impact of the project. At the same time, losses in oil shale extraction increased during the period considered in the development plan. For example, 3.4 million tonnes were lost in 2007, or almost 20%, and 4 million tonnes in 2012, or nearly 21% of the extracted stock. How should the implementation of the previous development plan be assessed in this light?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U144	Thanks! It may be said that God laughs when people make plans, but that wisdom in retrospect is the result of specific mining conditions. If we look ahead in the context of this plan, it has been said that, for example, the indicators of losses are less ambitious, because we are trying to achieve the "same level of losses." But once again, something like geology comes into play. All of the oil shale reserves that we will be able to adopt in the coming years have more difficult deposit conditions. If we add any other geological failures and such things that come into play, plus the greater need for a whole from the depths, so that this thing doesn't fall on its neck, sometimes a little ambition can be pretty hard to implement. So real life gives us a real picture, but it does it afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U145	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U146	Thank you. Dear Minister, The government decided last December to draw up a strategy or framework plan for the use of the land. How reasonable is it at all to process the development plan for the use of the most important mineral resource, or oil shale, in the Riigikogu before preparing this strategy? Perhaps we could somehow make sure that the overall strategy is ready first, and then the development plans for the various mineral resources will follow? Or is what we're doing here, however reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U147	Thanks! I can briefly say yes, it makes sense. But I will also explain why it is reasonable and whether it is reasonable. This so-called underground strategy, which is actually a fundamental document, is certainly not more detailed than the development plan for the use of some specific mineral resources. Surely oil shale, as such a fundamental document, fits well, it is both economically and environmentally important mineral resources. I don't see any contradiction here. However, I assume that the underground strategy can make the picture of Estonia's mineral resources a little wider, because it does not focus solely on oil shale.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U148	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The development plan mentions that there is a reason to distinguish between the national and regional role of the oil shale sector. At regional level, the development and social welfare of the Ida-Virumaa economy most depend on the welfare of the oil shale sector. The analysis carried out by Praxis showed that the effects of changes in the oil shale industry through the labour market are strong and affect all the major cities in Ida-Viru County, where 80% of the population of the region is concentrated, about 120,000 people. Given today's situation in the oil shale sector and the price of oil, does the government have a vision of the oil shale sector and the region of Ida-Viru County if, for example, the price of oil remains at the same level for 10 to 15 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U150	Thanks! This same oil shale development plan also sets out possible scenarios if there is indeed a significant reduction in the extraction of oil shale compared to the current 15 million tonnes per year. Then there are a lot of concerns both in the region and in the country as a whole. Can we say today that there is a magic wand for the well-being of the people of Ida-Virumaa in such a scenario? I don't think there's a magic wand, and there won't be one in any development paper. I looked at the Ida-Viru county development plan for interest, I'm guessing until 2020. All this diversification of activities and aiding the emergence of other industries may be possible, but, in my opinion, knowing the region, I say that this next decade will not be very easy for the people of Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U151	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U152	Thank you. Minister, thank you for your previous reply. Next, I want to ask you this. The development plan will indicate an indicative time for how long the oil shale stock will last, but I dare say it's pure speculation. There's always talk of different years, 50 years to 300 years. All of this indicates that there is no clear research base and it is not clear who needs to investigate mineral resources. What's your opinion? At present, oil shale is basically mined by private companies, the state imposes as certain conditions. But who or what is this structure that must be responsible for research and exploration of resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U153	Thanks! I don't want to share your skepticism. The largest user of oil shale is currently the Estonian state through one company called Eesti Energia. 11 million tonnes of this 15 are still used by one state company. That's one. Secondly, as far as the continuation of stocks is concerned, it is absolutely necessary to look behind this figure. If someone is talking about 300 years or three years, we need to look at what supplies he had in mind and from what point of view. If you read the development plan for the use of oil shale, you will see that there is talk, for example, that the stock covered by permits will last for at least 18 years, if the sum of the sum is kept within the limit that up to 20 million tonnes are mined per year. If the current actual mining volume is 15 million tonnes, the stocks will therefore last longer. Of course, preparing a new mine is a long process. This means that it cannot happen that the mining permit will end on 31 December and then we will see how to start in the new mine after 1 January. Gradually, over the years, new mines must also be prepared. Indeed, it is now the case that geological surveys relating to the construction of specific mines are commissioned by the company that wants the mining permit. This does not mean, however, that the Estonian state has not done a large number of general geological works in previous years, as well as search work in the field of geology. I think that when it comes to the adequacy of supplies, their location and quality, the situation is under control, at least in the case of oil shale.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U154	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U155	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. For decades oil shale was used in Estonia only for electricity production, with little efficiency. In recent years, we have discovered that oil shale can also be produced from oil and has a much higher efficiency. Maybe there's something else that can be produced, with a much greater efficiency, we don't know. At the same time, oil shale mining still generates a great deal of waste. There's not much we can do with them or make anything out of them. Where should there be a competence centre in Estonia that would drag oil shale, as our unrecoverable resource, to investigate what could be done about it and what could be done about it. Currently, it is largely in the hands of businesses. It seems to me that there is no such common ground and no great centre of competence. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U156	Thanks! It is by name, but I think it would be naive to hope that today's oil shale competence centre in Ida-Virumaa could grow to this end. That expectation would be wrong. What makes sense is that the commercial interest in some new products is on the business side. But I think that at least two, but maybe three Estonian universities, should be counted next on that list. I will start with a longer name group from the university: there should definitely be a Tallinn University of Technology. This is due to a number of aspects, since energy, mining, and also a very good level of geology knowledge are present at this university, so it could certainly be one of the main partners on the scientific side. But I also dare to recommend my alma mater to the University of Tartu, where the teaching of natural sciences is in good hands, and when it comes to landscape aspects, you should definitely mention the Estonian University of Life Sciences. Let's just take the beginning of this ground policy document. It was the three universities that came up with this initiative. That's how I imagine it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U157	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If you look at the data of Statistics Estonia, you can see that Ida-Virumaa is the first in Estonia in terms of the production of profits, and it crosses some other counties several times, and even Harjumaa, which is the second most, is well below it. I'm going to take a sentence from this development plan, it's written about the research into the health effects of the oil shale sector. It turns out that the life expectancy of a child born in Ida-Virumaa is still almost five years shorter than that of a child born in Tartu or Tallinn. There's a lot of sentences like this. Is this a state problem, or is it the problem of the people who live there? If profitability is highest and if the country needs it badly, why are average wages among the lowest in this same chemical sector in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U159	Thanks! Wage in a given sector still arises under market conditions. The state of Estonia does not impose any salary for any post. Perhaps indirectly, through the will of the council and the owner, it concerns the Chairman of the Management Board of Eesti Energia. But if you look at the situation with the sale of products, you can see that there is no room for spending more than that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U160	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I was somehow positively excited by your discussion with a good colleague, Urve Palo, about the fact that oil shale is a worthwhile thing to do something more valuable because it would be more profitable. At the same time, I remembered that about a quarter of a hundred years ago I looked at the references of Estonian science, so-called our success stories. There were not too many scientists dedicated to oil shale chemistry on the list, but among them the names of Estonian scientists, three Estonians, were recognizable and quickly found, and then another Anglo-American character. Now, when I looked at the same list, the Estonian names were gone and there were only some Mackinleys or Mckinseys left. I don't remember who exactly was there, but there are no Estonians anymore. You recommended several good universities, but to whom, us or the Government of the Republic? Who should deal with this so that we have a science that would allow oil shale to be better valued?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U162	Thanks! I recommend to you, I recommend to the Government of the Republic of Estonia and to companies. But you referred to one problem. Some kind of burning scrapes or whatever's very different. We're talking about Utah if we want to, we're talking about Jordan. That's great. In fact, it is niche science in the sense that publication is difficult, which does not mean that people should not try. One thing is that you can't publish your article in any way, another thing is that this publication has to do with R &amp; D money, on which new knowledge can be created. What's this key here, I don't know what to say quickly from this remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U163	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U164	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I am not complaining, but I will come back to what my colleague Urve Palo asked about the competence centre. Two or three years ago, it got on its feet. But how do you assess their cooperation with companies such as the Viru Chemistry Group, Eesti Energia or Kiviõli company, so that these companies can speed up the pace of progress?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U165	Thanks! I haven't done a field observation on the ground. I follow the information letter from the oil shale competence centre and have participated in conferences a few times. That's all. One thing is that you have some kind of square meters of lab space and office space, but the other thing is that somewhere you have to have cash, I don't know, but at least there could be something in a bank account that could really do research, hire people, etc. Right now, it seems to me that there may be people out there who think I'm on the wrong road, that there is more culture in universities, even though it's hard to publish or whatever. But the competence center isn't in itself either. The question now is how, for example, Tallinn University of Technology can relate to its college and how it all works together. But I'm not an expert, I haven't looked into it in detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U166	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My second question is on the impact indicators for achieving the strategic objective. Take, for example, the percentage recovery of the substance, which is an indicator of the impact of meeting the first strategic objective. The baseline is 40%, the target is not lower than the baseline by 2020. The same objective shall apply for 2025 and 2030. Isn't that a little small? It is as if we are satisfied that the situation is not deteriorating, but, for example, in 2011-2013 the recovery of waste was already more than 50%.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U168	If you look at this intermediate period, it must be said that these were also exceptional years in the sense that it was a series of closure projects involving semi-coke mountains, ash mountains, the establishment of the Kiviõli MC and ski hill and other things where this material could be used. If we come back to today, there is simply no such material need to look back. But that interim jump came from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U169	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U170	Thank you. For example, one idea for using a substance could be Rail Baltic, built in the future, and a substance could be used in the construction of a earth body. But I have a question about environmental charges. An analysis of the environmental impacts of the oil shale industry is currently being prepared. The question is, how much does it have to do with the environment? This influence is mainly taking place in this one region. However, if we look at the use of environmental charges through environmental investments, we often see that these investments are not going back to Ida-Viru County, but are being made across Estonia. If we collect environmental charges from this sector on the ground, would it not be more sensible to channel this money into improving the environment there? It is certainly important to build a waste plant in Saaremaa, but it does not improve people's well-being in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U171	Thank you for your question. If you answer this radically, you could say why the environmental charges should not be the local tax collected by the municipality at all. So we collect it and we use it ourselves. But in the case of a state-owned resource, this may not be the scenario that we are going to implement. In this Chamber, I don't think there are enough votes to support this idea, just like there are other laws, right? But I think we should look at this whole story again. I have answered one question on this subject. I'm sorry, but I'm not gonna gnaw who submitted it to you, maybe some good people from the Central Party, but maybe not. If we are looking at the use of structural tools in this region, I would still like to bring the great cities of Ida-Virumaa as an example of style, these are Narva, Sillamäe, etc., then I think that people in this region are not drinking water at all, as they can drink, if there were no additional resources from the European Union. Or we could take the same residual pollution. Today's oil shale companies have been good here themselves. Certainly this situation, which was at the time they became owners, and this situation, which is today, is different as night and day. It would clearly be impossible to deal with all this residual pollution and the closure of all these mountains only through the use of money from environmental charges. Actually, the money's been put in there, but you can always say that it hasn't been done enough. If we come back to this debate, which maybe also be happening here at some point, that is, what we should do with environmental charges at all, then I think we should first answer the question, what is this problem? Is there anything we want to do in Ida-Virumaa, make some kind of change in the structure of jobs, or are we still focusing narrowly on the oil shale sector? But we'll be able to debate it here soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U172	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! The development plan acknowledges the fact that the oil shale industry needs young specialists. It goes on to say: 'In order to mitigate negative demographic trends, attention must certainly be paid to making the living environment in Virumaa more attractive to the young top specialists. This requires the creation of ways to reconcile family and professional life, the creation of new residential areas, the development of local public services, including leisure facilities, the improvement of road quality and certainly the development of the region's image. Kindergartens and childcare facilities should be established. " It's all very beautiful, but it's written in an impersonal form. What's that supposed to mean? Who and which budget should finance such a grand and very good programme to make the Virumaa environment attractive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U174	Thank you. The solutions, I think, are the same as in any region of Estonia. Now, the question is who's gonna bet a little bit more or less, depending on whose job it is. The municipalities of Ida-Virumaa will certainly go to great lengths first. It is always the place of thinking which projects will be presented when we talk about the competitiveness of the regions. Well, it's gotta come up with money from different sources. But I am also realistic about the fact that in Ida-Virumaa, as in any county, there will be no way in which I say, a particularly attractive living environment compared to other places that all young families would take east of Tallinn. There won't be a time like that. But I guess it's like regional policy at all, that if you don't do anything, it's gonna be crazy a lot faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U175	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U176	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! According to this excellent development plan, the aim of the state is to introduce regulations on oil shale mining, distribution, enhancement and taxation, which would ensure that the oil shale value is maximised to companies in the period 2018 to 2050 and beyond until and when the oil shale continues. But, Mr Minister, please tell me what has so far prevented the country from creating these excellent regulations, which would guarantee our country the greatest revenue and would be attractive to businesses. Why hasn't this been done before?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U177	Thanks! As with Estonia's conditions, however, I think that Estonia is not unique here, everything comes a little later. But it's nice that it comes when there's another greater consensus on what direction to go in.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U178	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U179	Thank you. Minister, thank you for this presentation. Thank you very much to everyone who has worked very hard on the oil shale development plan for a long time! Mining and use of oil shale is still the most influencing activity in Estonia's environmental condition. In this sense, this development plan before us today is probably one of the most important documents from the point of view of the environment and nature at all. The draft development plan describes, among other things, the impact of oil shale mining on our other great wealth, clean groundwater and groundwater bodies. It states how the risk of groundwater contamination increases in the extracted area and reduces the amount of groundwater used as drinking water, and the problems of the environment and the population can occur years later. In order to avoid further deterioration of groundwater, a specific action plan was proposed a year and a half ago. In 2014, the Ministry of the Environment launched studies. Can you brief us on the results of these studies and how far this work is?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U180	Thanks! I have not prepared myself specifically to answer this question, but two references are correct. Indeed, by the time I arrived, the development plan for the use of oil shale was already in its final stages. You, as a good minister, have contributed to this and, in the meantime, Mati Raidma must have contributed very intensively. The second reference is also correct. This is certainly an activity with a very high environmental impact, which also affects groundwater, especially its upper horizons. To answer more accurately, I should, for example, look at the water management plans that are ready for today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U181	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U182	Thank you. Dear Minister, I read in the development plan that Eesti Energia and Viru Keemia Grupp both planned the establishment of a refinery for the production of motor fuel, but these schemes have now been suspended for objective reasons. What is the position of the Ministry of the Environment as to whether or not the refinery would contribute to greater added value? If so, what is your opinion, should the state participate in its construction, or should it be the companies themselves alone?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U183	Thanks! Then whisper to Erki Savisaar about what page you found it on, because I'm sure it has to be there somewhere. But I think it can still happen in a situation where the price of oil allows private operators or, let's say, entrepreneurs, I also mean planning a country like this through Eesti Energia. This is certainly not a project where there is some contribution from the budget of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U184	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You know the conditions of Virumaa very well, you know the possibilities of life there as well as the people. Could this development plan, the completion of which was your job, help change the situation in Virumaa in any way, or rather the people there themselves and the other conditions, but this development plan could not be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U186	Thanks! The truth is in the eye of the viewer again. The criticism of this development plan was also made here at the end of last year: in what sense, otherwise it is very nice, but oil prices are wrong and the prices of CO2 quotas are wrong and all that. But I dare say from this remote that this is an important document. If the Riigikogu accepts it, it will still provide clarity to the region and to the entrepreneurs of this sector so that in the next 15 years the activities could be accepted. The following must be taken into account: it must be better than yesterday and much better than the day before yesterday. But surely clarity is always better in every situation. Just as Paul Keres once said, whose 100th anniversary we celebrate this year, that even with a low plan, it is always better than without a plan. At this point, however, I did not mean that it was a weak plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U187	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U188	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. This is an important document for Estonia, but it hardly affects the world market price in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U189	Does the development plan also state what the price level or price point is worth dealing with oil shale from which, whether it is burning in an oven or producing oil from it? Is it possible to read it from the development plan? This document does not affect the world market price in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U190	Right!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U191	That statement is very true. But I was taught at the University of Tartu by Asta Oraspõld, an associate professor who recently turned 90. He taught us the geology of the Soviet Union's mineral resources. From him we learned the basic truth that there are different rocks in different places. If you use this parallel, then for different production technologies and depending on the price at which oil shale can be recovered, the profitability of the companies will certainly be different. There comes a separate talk about the entire tax policy: à la, which could be the amount from which the state could start to charge taxes in the first place.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U192	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U193	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The national development plan for the use of oil shale was drawn up for almost three years. The Ministry of the Environment commissioned research that preceded this process four years ago. During this period, the situation on the energy supply market has changed greatly. Low electricity and oil prices put pressure on the oil shale sector. In my opinion, our system of environmental charges has not changed so far. I may be wrong in numbers, so you fix it, but more than 80% of the environmental charges from the oil shale industry go to the state right now. How do you assess the relationship between environmental charges received by the state and local authorities? Is the share received by municipalities sufficient to compensate for the negative externalities of the oil shale industry, or should this system be reviewed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U194	Thanks! Let me just say that this is the equilibrium point that has been achieved. I do not know whether the municipalities and the state have been 'equal parties' in this debate or whether, as we are saying about the labour market, one party is not quite equal. However, the aim is to ensure that resource charges are not limited to the municipality in which mining is being carried out and the resource is being used, but that this effect extends to where the mining permit is actually issued.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U195	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U196	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I am not a specialist in oil shale or mining, but specialists claim that the oil shale price of the Estonian oil shale field is at times on the Rakvere-Tool phosphorous field, which is 30 to 35 metres above it. The development plan has such an interesting theorem that the technically and economically best option is to mine oil shale and phosphorus at the same time by establishing a two-storey mine. Yeah, a two-storey is better than a one-storey, isn't it? But in view of the fact that there were wars of phosphorite that united the people, giving a new recognition of their statehood and self-thinking, and as historical value has been preserved so far, are they really going against this holy and untouchable?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U197	Thanks! This development plan sets out the principle of the sustainable use of resources. Indeed, if the mineral resources are located in a so-called line or above each other, one of them should be extracted in such a way that the other can be extracted as well. Today we are certainly not at this stage so that we can talk about the next oil shale mine in a place where, as you said, it should be built on a two-storey scale. It's still a long way to go, we'll both be very old men by then. But you don't know, maybe it's faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U198	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U199	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I am very concerned that you did not, in essence, see the possibility of Virumaa becoming a thriving, attractive and very pleasant living environment in the future. If you think that you have found it to be a good point of balance, if more than 80% of the environmental charges from the oil shale industry go to the state, then I have the impression that, as a country or our community, we are taking advantage of the resource that Virumaa offers, but there is nothing to give back, there is no investment in the living environment or anything, because what future do they have there? However, do you not see, Mr Minister, that the state could come to the aid of local authorities in any way by means of investment programmes or even by reviewing the same environmental charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U200	Thanks! If I were to form a country alone, this country would be different than today, for the simple reason that compromises should be reduced. I'm not saying if this country would be better or worse, but it would be different. But I'm not a country, unfortunately. As far as 80:20 is concerned, neither am I. Such a relationship has now been reached, has done so by some previous composition of the same hall, or by some previous composition of the government. As far as my assessment of Ida-Viru County is concerned, I am still a fan of it, but since I am once again, I think, as a western virtuoso, well over the average, and have seen the people there, I think there is no point in misturing. This does not mean that it is an area without perspective. As you like to say, this is a potential area. I would also very much like this potential to flourish in all areas, but I think that real life must be based on what is visible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U201	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I will continue with the question of the questioner in a more specific way. If I read from the national development plan facts that somebody thinks have been important for this development plan, such as that the life expectancy of a child born in Ida-Virumaa is five years shorter than that of a child born in Tartu or Tallinn at the same time, then I understand that this is a national problem. Is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U204	It really is. Every child born in Estonia has the right to live as long as possible in the future. So it's a national problem. But I do not see in the programme the measures that could level this problem. Where are they? What can parents who have children in Ida-Virumaa rely on? Or do they have to accept that fact?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U205	Thanks! You don't have to accept it, that's why there are environmental requirements. The shale cannot be mined at all costs. Since this is a production area with a very long history, positive changes have not been rapid enough, but the main measures come through the enhancement of this environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U206	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U207	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The development plan provides for a national research and development programme for oil shale aimed at supporting the development of technologies for more efficient and environmentally sound use of oil shale as a state resource. I think that is the very right aim. But can you, Minister, answer what budgetary resources are earmarked for the implementation of this programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U208	Thanks! I can certainly tell you exactly what it might look like when we come here with an operational programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U209	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U210	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for reminding me of my previous fellow official. I would like to say that, while I was a minister, it was decided, together with the academic community, that a ground-based strategy would be launched. This should actually have preceded the document we are discussing today, so logic would have been in place, but better late than never. My question is about civil society. Would you describe in a few words how active they were in the process of creating this document and whether some of their noble ideas and positions were reflected in this document?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U211	Thanks! If you think about this catch story, maybe two people in these bench lines know the answer better than I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U212	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U213	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I see a very big contradiction here. We are adopting a development plan for a very important industry, but as far as I know, there is no curriculum in Estonian universities that would have been designed directly to train people in the field of oil shale. So what do you call this thing? We are adopting a development plan and we have such a big field as the oil shale industry, but we are not training any specialists for it. Have you talked to the Minister of Education and Science about this, to get over this point?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U214	Thanks! I have not specifically spoken to the Minister of Education and Research on this issue. If we look at bachelor studies and science disciplines, I think this task is rather difficult, which doesn't mean it's impossible. In my opinion, it can certainly be done to increase this role in the higher education institutions in which curricula are in contact with this area. But it's primarily in the hands of these universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U215	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U216	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! As has already been said in this debate, the most important thing in the case of oil shale is how to obtain as little and less of the added value as possible from this mineral resource to the environment. This development plan also provides for this as an important objective, which is certainly very reasonable and correct. I ask you to conclude by mentioning what these changes are or what the levers will ensure that the negative impact on the environment, nature and then on all of us will be less and less than it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U217	Thanks! Short answer: consistent compliance with environmental requirements and as little compromise as possible there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U218	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask for a presentation by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, in person.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U219	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed the National Development Plan for the Use of Stone 2016 to 2030 on 25 January. All members of the Commission took part. The Ministry of the Environment was represented by Minister Marko Pomerants and Deputy Chancellor Ado Lõhmus. But since the topic is very important for the Estonian state and Estonia's mineral resources, we also included Auditor General Tarmo Olgo of the Performance Audit Department of the National Audit Office and Audit Manager Viire Vissi. During the session, the economic and environmental issues related to oil shale production were discussed as a result of the draft decision of the Riigikogu concerning the approval of the national development plan for the use of oil shale. In addition to the Minister, the representatives of the National Audit Office gave their opinion. I will talk more about what the people of the National Audit Office said, and briefly give an overview of what the members of the committee asked for. In congratulating all those who asked questions in this Chamber today, it must be said that the vast majority of the answers given by the Minister here today were also given on 25 January in the Committee on the Environment. So I am not going to go over what the Minister has said once before in the big hall. The representatives of the National Audit Office considered that the impact indicators of the development plan should be aligned with the general objective and the development plan should provide clearer policy guidelines for the development of administrative and financial measures. It should also make clear the actual benefits and costs of implementing the development plan that the state, businesses and society in general will incur. In addition, the representatives of the National Audit Office recommended to formulate in the development plan that the development plan be completed by 2020 at the latest, taking into account the results of the studies to be carried out in the coming years. Of course, the questions raised by the members of the committee were why the National Audit Office discussed this development plan and analysed it in depth. Here's the answer. During the development plan, representatives of the National Audit Office carried out several audits related to oil shale waste. That is why this development plan also went into depth. The second reason was that the National Audit Office has reviewed those development plans that deal with issues of particular importance to Estonia. The proposals presented by the National Audit Office can also be interpreted, in a sense, as shortcomings in the development plan, which we can eliminate here by means of amendments. A good colleague, Meelis Mälberg, asked that possible shortcomings have been identified, but does the National Audit Office have anything positive to stress. Indeed, the representative of the National Audit Office listed a number of positive things, first of all, that the development plan had a very good involvement and, secondly, that the picture that emerges from the oil shale sector is adequate and very detailed. Their proposals are primarily intended for what should be planned and what could be the objectives. In addition, the Commission paid particular attention, as was the case here in the large hall, to Ida-Virumaa and its social problems. One example was exactly the same as the use of oil shale in areas other than electricity production was possible when discussed in this Chamber. I quote one member of the Commission: 'The burning stone can produce a number of products, for example, it can be used in perfumery. But the problem lately is that chemical laboratories have disappeared from Ida-Viru County and, in fact, the competence centre. Oil shale science must be developed in order to use oil shale in more areas. The competence center has beautiful rooms, but it's empty. ' The Ministry's representative also confirmed that the oil shale competence centre has not really been implemented most effectively, but the search for new solutions has taken place and is taking place with experts. Fine chemistry is certainly one of the possible solutions for Ida-Viru County. As I conclude, the Committee on the Environment decided (consensually) to conclude the first reading, but the Ministry of the Environment repeatedly drew the attention of the Ministry of the Environment to the need to develop education and research in the field of oil shale and, of course, to the need to follow the proposals of the National Audit Office. When I come back to the decisions, it was proposed, by consensus, that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 25 February and that the person standing before you who is doing this report, or Rainer Vakra, should be appointed rapporteur. The first consensual decision was to put the draft on the agenda by 10 February 2016, i.e. today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U220	Thank you. You have questions. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U221	Mr Vakra, thank you very much for your comprehensive speech. But did the Committee on the Environment not think that the matter could be discussed with the Committee on Social Affairs? At least through my eyes, the socio-economic problems in Ida-Viru County seem to be more important than being dependent on one mineral resource. After all, we have other mineral resources. At present, we no longer have the fear that a neighbouring country would rob our mineral resources -- I mean phosphorus -- and new technologies have come. Was it not under discussion that oil shale could in any way be kept longer and directed towards the extraction of other, much more laborious minerals?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U222	Thank you for a very good question. Specifically, the issue of whether or not to involve the Committee on Social Affairs was not discussed in the Committee on the Environment. However, the same set of problems you have just described were repeatedly discussed. The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment confirmed that in addition to the development plan, a document such as 'Ida-Virumaa Action Plan 2015 But I think it's a reasonable idea. Why not use it next time? So thank you very much. Thanks for the good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U223	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U224	Good manager! Good waitress! It's a pretty piece of paper again, but it seems a little empty to me. What do you think is the weakest aspect of the current oil shale development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U225	Thank you. If you look at both weaknesses and strengths, you cannot, of course, miss or overcome the comments made by the National Audit Office. I think it is important for them to propose that, by 2020 at the latest, the development plan should be formulated in more detail as to how it will be brought into line with the results of the studies to be carried out in the coming years. Perhaps the idea that the Estonian state, small and flexible, should be able to supplement development plans with new information. We are talking today about the 2016-2030 years. If the Ministry of the Environment is able to order analyses and they show some interesting nuances, details, then in this light it would be necessary to review and edit the development plan. I think that is a sensible proposal, and that is what is being proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U226	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Let's open the political group negotiations. Artur Talvik, Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U227	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I have read the bill and listened to various parties. I also listened to today's debate and I feel like I'm in some absurd theater. Everything is so controversial. When I talk to representatives of industry, they say that God, this development plan has completely failed, they're just trying to make sure no total nonsense goes in there. When I talk to the representatives of the conservationists, they say that God, this development plan doesn't look at the future at all, they're just trying to make sure there's no big shit going in there. When I speak to people in Ida-Virumaa or people who participated in the development plan of Ida-Viru County, they say that they did not take the oil shale part into account in their development plan, they wrote in their development plan that the oil shale part would come separately. We are in a situation where the world is moving in one direction. The world is moving from fossil fuels to exit strategy. A lot of money, a lot of development and brain potential are being used to find new solutions. At the same time, we are stuck in a certain anachronistic approach, or we are holding on to our oil shale, which has really benefited us, and certainly has also been important in energy security policy. But we're kind of stuck in some old thing. We are talking here today about putting a lot of money into research and development, we should teach young scientists to deal with oil shale. However, the situation is that those who are supposed to put money into R &amp; D, i.e. the sector or industry, do not have that money. They're working on it to survive in the first place. When we talk to the oil industry in Kiviõli, it says that if fuel prices remain the way they are now, they will close the store by the end of the year. When we talk to the VKG, it says that if fuel prices remain the same as they are now, they will close the store about the same time next year. In fact, we need a serious crisis plan in case these prices really remain the same. What happens socio-politically in Ida-Virumaa if thousands more people are unemployed? We are talking calmly about fine-tuning, whether to mine 20 or 15 million tons. We all know that, for objective reasons, the industry cannot extract more than 15 million tonnes; that is not a question at all. The question is what is our big plan, what is the plan for the energy economy, what is the plan for the mineral resources? As Mr Palling pointed out here, there is a so-called underground strategy in the process, but a strategy for using finished oil shale will be made before that. My logic also says that we should first have a big picture of what we are doing with Estonia's mineral resources at all, and then we could come back to this narrower sector, to what we are doing in this sector. The same is true of the energy economy: the development plan for the energy economy was made, but the oil shale part was essentially excluded. This situation is absurd. We should focus our forces together on what happens next. In any event, this development plan does not provide a response to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U228	Please, Valeri Korb, the Central Party faction!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U229	Ladies and gentlemen, The subject we are discussing is quite acute, especially for Ida-Viru County. I agree, Arthur, with you that some things are in the air, especially how and where to go from there. The year 2016 is quite interesting in terms of oil shale, because representatives of Eesti Energia, local authorities and people who have worked a lot want to celebrate the day of miners on 27 or 28 August, because it is still a hundred years since the oil shale mining started, when three cars were struck together. But God forbid. Secondly, I would like to stress that we have essentially completed a large programme that lasted between 2008 and 2015. In 2016, we will start this thing from scratch again. But I remember 2008 when we were here debating how much oil shale we have to take out of the ground and what we get for it. Then there was the Estonian Green Group of the Party who said that 15 million tonnes could be mined and no more tonnes could be mined. That's when we found out that we had to use 14.7 million tons of electricity, and 4.5 tons goes to the chemical industry. Finally, we agreed in this hall that we would write down 20 million tons. I am pleased that the Underground Act now stands at 20 million tonnes, and today there is no debate in this Chamber about how much we should mine. The third thing we should think about and talk about is that a conference was held in Paris 20 days before 2016, where we took the courage to tell people that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050. We are in a difficult situation: oil shale mining and exploitation accounts for 4% of Estonia's GDP, but at the same time generates more than 80% of all Estonian emissions. This is a difficult situation for all of us. Of course, when it comes to the next programme for the period 2016 to 2030, it is different from the previous one because the previous programmes were intended for seven or eight years, but this programme is intended for 15 years. I agree that we need to clarify the directions that we will follow up to the next 30 years. But you know, over this hundred years, we're used to getting oil shale gas, getting oil shale oil, also electricity, we're getting cement, we're getting maybe an ewe gas that can be heated, but the story is that no one today is thinking about what more oil shale could become. That should be our goal. I didn't ask in vain what this oil shale competence center was. Thank you, Minister, you spoke well in answering this question, but the point is that nobody in Estonia is serious about how we can use oil shale in addition to what I was talking about today. This could be our biggest problem. There was talk about the mining industry here, and the questions were all about it, we weren't talking about the chemical industry. But I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, that in Kohtla-Järve, the Institute of Chemistry and Mining worked for almost 30 years; they did do this. Professor Jüri Soone worked hard to make the labs work. They were split, half went to Tallinn, half stayed in our college, the competence centre. If I may, I'd like to ask for a little more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U230	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U231	But the thing is, today, all this work is going to stand. The most fundamental question is whether we can get enough money to enable our scientists and science to show us where we should go in 15 years. I think the program we're discussing today is gonna get on your feet. Then everyone will have a clear picture of what we want to get from oil shale and where we will go until 2030. I would also like to express my thanks to the Auditors, who really did a great job and sent a letter to the Environment Committee in October, where they came up with their views on the pros and cons they see in this programme that we are discussing together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U232	Thank you. There's no more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 166. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 166 amendments, including 25 February at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U233	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the last item on the agenda today. The second reading of the draft law amending the Tobacco Act initiated by the Government of the Republic continues. I would like a presentation by Vilja Toomasi, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U234	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu prepared the draft law amending the Tobacco Act for the second reading of 118 and for the third reading at its meeting on 8 and 9 February. I recall that the second reading of the bill was suspended on 27 January. The committee heard the opinions of the Counsellor of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the representatives of the Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers, examined the amendments submitted and made decisions on them. Two amendments were tabled, both from Vilja Toomas. The first amendment reworded § 1 (2) of the draft text, in particular for reasons of legal clarity. The second amendment follows directly from the first amendment. The Commission unanimously supported both amendments and decided to make some procedural proposals. Firstly, we propose that the second reading be stopped and that the draft be sent to the third reading when the second reading is completed, by next week, February 17. We also propose that the draft be put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U235	Thank you. You have a question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U236	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Last time we spoke here about the problem of menthol, that first and foremost menthol-flavored cigarettes seem to have the end, but now, reading this explanatory note, it seems that there has been some sort of explanation, and there is nothing like that. Let me get this straight. They can still be bought and pulled peacefully until 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U237	Thank you for your question. Yeah, you actually got it right. It is possible to use tobacco products containing Menthol, or rather, cigarettes and tobacco turned into cigarettes, until 16 May 2020, which is made possible by a European Union directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-10_U238	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will review them. The first amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Vilja Toomas, the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Another amendment has also been tabled by Riigikogu member Vilja Toomas, and the proposal of the commission is also fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 118. We're done with second reading. Today's session is also closed. Thank you, colleagues. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.15 p.m.
