ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U1	Good morning, good fellows. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 2nd working week on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U2	Mr President of the sitting! I have reason to hand over the draft law amending the Presidential Election Act on behalf of the Free Party Group. Its contents are as follows: In 1995 the VIII Riigikogu passed the Act of Election of the President of the Republic, currently in force, during the reigns of the KMU, i.e. the Association of the Pool Party and the Association of Rural Peoples. It was almost forgotten for many years, but by now, I think every Estonian interested in politics knows its content. There is such a thing written in that the electoral body may fail to elect the President and return to the Riigikogu. How it's supposed to happen, nobody knows because nobody's thought about it. Looking back at the materials left behind by the Constitutional Assembly, it is quite clear that none of the members of the Constitutional Assembly ever had such a point. Everyone had the understanding that once the election reached the electoral body, the president would have to be elected there. So in this sense, it was not a great competence, because in 1995 there were no people who would have known the work of the Constitutional Assembly, nor had these texts been published. Our draft envisages improving the current Act on the Election of the President of the Republic in such a way that, with the support of all of you, the possibility that the electoral body might fail can be ruled out forever.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U4	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I would like to make an inquiry. This question is addressed to Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal and concerns the movement of agricultural machinery on the road. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has issued a regulation under which, for example, a combine or larger tractor is treated as a special load. This means that when a combineer travels from one field to another, he must have a escort car, the driver of which a person must be entitled to drive a combination of vehicles, and there must still be lighters and a large and wide label. All of this is for farmers, you know, a very big burden. Our question is whether it is necessary. Another problem is that these escorts have created traffic-dangerous situations. This column is slow, and people who drive a regular car can't count on the fact that there might still be a escort car in front of the combine. Our questions are also about whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has not found a safety and information campaign to make it clear that such things exist at all. In all of this, we have four questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U5	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good representatives of the people, have a nice day of resistance. Today we have such an important and very important day. On behalf of seven members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I am delighted to present an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Maris Lauri. A meeting of the Scientific and Development Council was held on 20 August. Unfortunately, the website of the Scientific and Development Council is very informative. The last entry there comes from s. a 1 March, now known as the end of September. The question does not, however, concern their website, but concerns all those activities that take place after the completion of the Scientific and Development Council, or Ok's report. As we know, one of the main recommendations of this report is and was that R &amp; D institutions and higher education institutions should be consolidated. This may be very practical for some institutions, but before breaking down a working institution, there must be analyses and there must also be certainty and clarity about what will happen next. Our heart hurts the most because of the future of the Estonian Language Institute, as you know, the possibility of joining the Institute of Estonian Language with the University of Tartu is also going on. We have an inquiry to make with five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U7	Good colleagues, no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted one draft and two inquiries, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, let's do the presence check. 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U8	We shall proceed to the agenda items for today. The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I will present to you a very good draft aimed at giving up the increase in excise duties on fuel on 1 January 2017 and 2018. In the current economic situation, such an increase would have a clear negative impact and would not contribute to more growth. In recent years, growth forecasts have been cut eight times. Fuel excise has a direct negative impact on economic growth. On 25 May last year, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws, which amended seven laws. Among others, excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity were amended and excise duties on fuel were increased. As a result, excise duty on petrol increased by 10% from 1 February and excise duty on diesel by 14%. This cost 5.1 cents a litre of petrol and 6.6 cents a litre of diesel. Until 1 February of this year, the rate of excise duty on petrol was EUR 422,77 and the rate of excise duty on diesel was EUR 392,92 per 1000 litres. The Act amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and the Law amending other laws, adopted on 15 June last year, also increased the excise duty on petrol to EUR 465 from 1 February and the excise duty on diesel to EUR 448 per 1000 litres. From 1 January 2017, the rate of excise duty on petrol shall be EUR 512 and the rate of excise duty on diesel shall be EUR 493 per 1000 litres and from 1 January 2018, the rate of excise duty on petrol shall be EUR 563 and the rate of excise duty on diesel shall be EUR 542 per 1000 litres. In particular, the increase in excise duties on fuel was justified by the fact that excise duties on fuel have not been increased for a long time and, as a result, fuel has remained relatively low compared to other prices and human wages. However, in recent years, the price increase has not been so rapid as to justify an increase in excise duty in this volume. On the basis of the 2011 price level, consumer prices have risen by 8%. Thus, a 10% increase in excise duties on petrol and a 14% increase in excise duties on diesel on 1 February ensured that the impact of excise duty would not be reduced and that the environmental aspect of the behaviour of individuals would be ensured. According to the Spring Economic Forecast of the Ministry of Finance, the consumer price index is expected to rise by 0.3% in 2016, 2.7% in 2017 and 2.9% in 2018. Compared to the increase in fuel excise duty with the increase in the consumer price index, we conclude that the consumer price index has increased by 14% in 2018, by 33.2% in petrol, and by 37.9% in diesel. Already in the explanatory memorandum to the draft Act amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws, there is a risk that residents of border areas may start refueling in Latvia. The TNS Emor survey has revealed that 49% of Estonian transport companies have started to refuel in countries with lower excise duties, such as Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, due to the rise in fuel excise duties. In addition, 36% of companies admitted that they had considered it. The survey also included retailers and wholesalers of fuel, 75% of whom indicated that their customers have reduced the consumption of fuel sold in Estonia and started to buy fuel from another country. According to Statoil, hundreds of thousands of litres of diesel fuel has been fueled in Estonia after the increase in fuel excise. It is real that the fuel consumption of transport companies in Estonia will decrease by up to 40%. On the basis of Olerex's calculations, the State may lose up to EUR 35 million. When comparing fuel prices and excise duties in Estonia and Latvia, it appears that the price difference gives a clear advantage to Latvia. There is a particularly large difference in the excise rate of diesel, which is 31.3% higher in Estonia than in Latvia. When planning the increase in excise duty, it was stressed that Latvia would also increase excise duties on fuel and therefore there would be no problem, but this was only partly true. In Estonia, excise duty on petrol rose by 10% and excise duty on diesel by 14% this year, while in Latvia, these figures were 7% and 3%. The increase in excise duties on fuel affects the behaviour of transport companies in particular, as they are able to choose the country in which they are refueling when planning logistics. It is also difficult to blame transport companies for not filling in Estonia and prefer countries where excise duty is lower and the price is cheaper. I will give you an example of the price of this week. Two Statoil service stations, one in Tallinn and the other in Riga: yesterday a litre of diesel fuel in Tallinn at Sõpruse puiestele cost 1.021 euros, the same price of diesel in Riga gas stations was 0.954 euros. The price difference is 7% and 6.7 cents per litre. Let us now put ourselves in the position of the transport company. The large heavy-duty vehicle has a 1000 litre tank, with a price gain from the tank of EUR 67. We note, however, that competition in the transport sector is very intense. I recall the question put to Minister Sven Sester in Question Time by my colleague, Kadri Simson. He asked what the Minister of Finance would do in such a situation if he were a transporter. We didn't get an answer. Of course, he would order his leaders to refuel in Latvia, otherwise this company would not stay on the water. High excise duties on diesel also contribute to possible tax fraud. There is already a mixture of diesel fuel and heavy fuel oil, which is taxed as heavy fuel oil, but which can be used as diesel fuel. Since February 2016, the difference between heavy fuel oil and diesel excise duty is almost eightfold. In addition, the tax administration's duties have been renewed to include the hunting of fuel mules. They fill up the fuel tank in Latvia, then they drive to Estonia, where the same fuel is pumped into the company's other cars. This is essentially fuel import, but the excise difference is not paid to the Estonian state. After an increase in the excise duty on fuel next year, the incentive to use such a scheme will increase further. While there is currently a difference in excise duty of EUR 107 per 1000 litres for diesel, from 1 January the difference is already EUR 152 per 1000 litres. The Latvian Government does not intend to increase excise duties on fuel. The increase in excise duties on fuel, mainly on diesel, also increases the cost of the State. The total cost of public authorities for vehicle fuel in water, air and land transport amounted to EUR 14.2 million in 2014. Taking into account the impact of the projected increase in excise duty on the final fuel price, the total cost to public authorities would increase by EUR 708000 per year. The higher fuel costs, the circular 70% of the total fuel costs of the country, are in the domain of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and the increase in excise duties on fuel will therefore have a greater impact on these areas of government. The adoption of the bill as a law will improve transport opportunities for rural residents, as public transport connections are poor in rural areas. It will also improve the competitiveness of companies. Little has been said about the impact of excise increases on the prices of fuel used by farmers and thus the competitiveness of farmers will be further reduced. I hope that logical economic thinking will be a winner today, and ladies and gentlemen will support this worthy draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U10	Thank you. Both Martins are in the front row with questions. Please, Martin Repinski!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have a question about special diesel excise. With this law, which we want to change now, excise duty was again increased. We know that agriculture is in crisis, and for farmers, a thousand euros can be decisive to shut down the company or stop farming. Special diesel is an important component in the production of agricultural products as well as in livestock farming. Don't you think it's right to give up excise duty on specialty diesel for a few years at all? Would that not be profitable for the budget, for example, in a five-year perspective? It would certainly not be any social support, but it would be in the interests of the country, I think. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U12	Thank you. The main consequence of the increase in fuel excise duty is that we do not have economic growth. This year's economic growth will be 1.3%. In recent years Estonia's growth forecast has been cut eight times. Fuel excise duty is one factor that directly affects the competitiveness and economic growth of companies. If we come to farmers, we have chosen a completely different path from our neighbours in excise policy. If the neighbours have electricity excise duty and fuel excise duty near the European Union's minimum rate, we have tried to fill the state budget with them. This is not sustainable, because one year it will certainly be jammed. I think it's next year. The representatives of the Ministry have claimed that the excise duty will be collected. But the reason is relatively simple: this year the fuel excise increase was consciously taken to February 1st, and the next increase is on January 1st, 2017. So, in essence, stocks are acquired and excise duties will remain in this year's budget. These figures should be approached with great skepticism. As far as farmers are concerned, unlike our neighbours again, excise duties on fuel will also increase the spending of our farmers. In the past, a specially marked excise duty of EUR 110 per 1000 litres of fuel will rise to EUR 160, so that they will essentially be put at the end of a third. It hardly makes farmers more competitive; it doesn't have to be very smart to understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U13	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U14	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Dear waitress, Part of this has already been dealt with here. I remember that when we discussed here the bill on tax increases, we repeatedly drew attention to the fact that when taxes are raised, it may not be the improvement of tax receipts, but the tax receipts may be reduced. There is a serious dispute over whether we have significantly improved or reduced tax receipts or which tax receipts have improved and which tax receipts have decreased. Can you shed some light on that? Secondly, the same issue of competitiveness. If we even believe in official statistics that the tax receipts are in a rising line, the Ministry of Finance has nothing to say about the fact that the Estonian economic environment has become a serious challenge compared to our neighbours, which means that our competitive situation has deteriorated. What does the Ministry of Finance say about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U15	Thank you. Of course, the increase in excise duty will have a negative impact on economic growth. As has already been said here, growth forecasts have been cut in recent years. Let's look at the behavior of the neighbors. Lithuania also tried unilaterally to increase excise duties on fuel, but within four months it realised that it was disastrous and reduced the rate of excise duty again four months later. When comparing the rates of excise duty in Latvia and Lithuania, they move almost equally, 10 euros to one side, 10 euros to the other. They're monitoring the behavior of the neighbors, but we're doing the opposite. We have already had a third higher excise duty than our neighbours, and this will certainly have consequences for the state budget. Whether the millions that go to neighbouring countries are 10, 20 or 30 is a question of its own. One year we will get the state budget full of so-called increases in excise duty, but it will not be sustainable. It hangs entrepreneurship, it hangs competitiveness, and it cannot be built up in public finances. Public finances should be built on taxes on the economy and the economy. So we are completely different from our neighbours. Let's get an electric excise. A few days ago, a table was published on which countries are trying to reduce electricity excise duties on large consumers. We have taken the maximum rate of the European Union in the electricity excise duty of large consumers. In Germany, this is 0.5%, which is the European Union's minimum rate. If we have nine times the amount of excise duty, companies will not be able to compete. We're going to be very late on these things, unfortunately. It has a direct impact on competitiveness and entrepreneurship; the state budget is another thing in addition to this. It is not sustainable; next year, this thing will certainly stick, because we cannot be so different from our neighbours. Today is not the subject of alcohol excise duty, but I say that we have become such an expensive country that, for example, the Finns are skipping Estonia, they are not leaving their money here anymore and they are going to Latvia for alcohol. This isn't normal! It's not normal, friends! Check your strategy. It is not possible to go on like this, sooner or later you will understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U16	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U17	Thank you. Dear waitress, I will return to the debate on the draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs with my question. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance were very pleased to say that in fact excise duties on fuel will be collected this year. They claimed that although international transport companies have started to refuel outside Estonia, in countries with cheaper excise duties, for example public transport companies cannot do so. They must also refuel their tanks here in Estonia, despite the increased excise duty. Is the increase in excise duty otherwise compensated for public transport from the state budget, or do transport companies have to compensate for the increased prices due to the increase in excise duty by increasing the ticket price?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U18	This is the competition issue. Ultimately, this money must be withdrawn from somewhere, either from the consumer or from the profits of the company, if any. Someone will have to pay for this increase in excise duty. Of course, the taxi driver of Tallinn does not go to Latvia to refuel, and the Tallinn bus company does not go to Latvia to refuel. It is the great joy of the government that so much of the Estonian economy is concentrated around Tallinn, which also gives greater courage to increase excise duty. But in the end, it reduces competitiveness. Let me give you a concrete example of the receipts. This year's increase in excise duty was deliberately taken to February 1. While 56 million diesel excise duties were collected in February, only 6 million were collected in March, 13 million in April, 20 million in May, 20 million in June and 22 million in July. All of these figures are lower than last year, although the increase in excise duty was supposed to be 14% higher. Yes, in August, more came from the excise charge, but there is also a reason for it, because if the trader has free money, he will start collecting the next fuel supply, as there will be a new increase in excise duty from 1 January. There's nothing to compare or to rejoice about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U19	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U20	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The Prime Minister said in one media channel that the difference between excise duties and prices in Estonia and Latvia is due to the fact that goods have different cost prices in Estonia and Latvia, the cost price in Estonia is higher, the price in Latvia is lower. But he forgot to mention that in Latvia, Estonian vodka is also cheaper. What do you think of the word 'own price'? How can the cost, the cost of production, and on the other side of the border become different?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U21	The cost of production will therefore also be higher if you have to pay higher national taxes. That's the competition issue I'm always talking about. I am going a little off the subject again, I am not a big alcohol consumer, but if alcohol producers lose jobs and the market and trade loses jobs and loses the market, it is not good for the state. There are also jobs at gas stations, etc. This subject is wider. The state should receive this money in a different way rather than directly from excise duties, because that is how it actually loses money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U22	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U23	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I listened to your answers, and I had a question. You told me what was normal and what wasn't. You made it very clear that it is completely abnormal for Finns to buy vodka from Latvia. Do you think it is very normal for Finns to buy vodka from Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U24	Yes, it is normal because it stimulates the Estonian economy. If a country gets so expensive that no one wants to come here, they only drive through here, it is abnormal, good colleague Rainer. The country should be attractive at the price level. If anyone claims that due to excise policy, someone in Estonia did not drink alcohol, please show me the person! I'll give him five jerks and buy him... I don't know what I'm gonna buy him. Guess what I'll buy him. That's not the reason! Look at the price of alcohol in France or Spain. Everyone's supposed to be drunk in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U25	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Tarmo Tamm! The Reform Party is known for enjoying raising taxes and being anti-business. I think everyone knows that. I remember the time when the Youth Council of the Centre Party baptized Ansip as Aktsisi-Ansip, because the Reform Party likes to raise indirect taxes very much. In the Commission, how does it feel whether the policy pursued by the Reform Party is carried out by the IRL and by the Sops? Are they also anti-business?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U27	Thank you. When ruled together, they are held accountable together. If someone complains about the competitiveness of Estonian entrepreneurship, three political parties must be responsible: the Reform Party, the IRL and the Social Democrats. It cannot be said that the Reform Party is solely responsible. I cannot say that the Reform Party would have behaved differently than the IRL and the Social Democrats are managed together and held accountable together. If there is no growth, look at these three parties, there is no point in looking anywhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U28	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U29	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress, first of all, thank you for raising the issue you need. Our young Prime Minister loves to lecture us on economics and finance from time to time in this Chamber and to teach us. He loves to stress that excise duties are necessary to change people's behaviour. How do you understand the change in the behaviour of which people were sought and sought with the rise in fuel excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U30	Thank you for a good question. Obviously, the behaviour of people living in rural areas is being changed because they can no longer travel so much. They don't have a kid to go to school. They don't drive anywhere. Their behavior will be changed. It hardly changes the behaviour of people in Tallinn, but it certainly changes the behaviour of people in rural areas, because every cent is counted there. It is like the inevitable of going to neighbouring countries with cheaper services and fuel. Some also think that if we raise the VAT on hotels by 5%, it will be okay if Finns start spending the night elsewhere instead of Estonia, that it is not like a problem. That's a change of behaviour. It also creates a secret market and new temptations. When the Latvian Minister of Finance gave an interview to either Äripäev or Ärieht, he said that it is not possible if the state raises excise duties by more than 2% per year or 2,5% per year, this is in no way argumentable or acceptable. For example, we will increase 21% in the next two years. We are completely different from our neighbours in terms of logic and understanding. It certainly affects the behavior of people who can no longer make the races they have planned. This will certainly also have an impact on the fact that product prices are rising. Whether they are shops or transport companies that carry goods, everyone loses. They're competing in the open market. I understand that countries that are closed, such as North Korea, can unilaterally increase prices. There's no way the money's gonna go out any other way than you've planned. If we have a country with an open economy and open borders, it cannot be implemented. The example of Lithuania is very instructive. In four months, they understood that this was disastrous and made excise duties equal to those of their neighbours, Latvia and Poland.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U31	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U32	Thank you. Dear waitress, You mentioned that the state should under no circumstances be able to get money into the budget through excise duties and you said that the state should do it differently. Maybe you'll describe it in a different way? What kind of taxes would you like to increase? The Centre Party has proposed to increase several grants for millions, if not hundreds of millions. Where, with which taxes do you see this money coming into the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U33	Thank you. Good question. I have not said that excise duties cannot be charged to the state budget. I'm telling you, we can't behave differently from our neighbors when we raise excise duty. But the main expenditures of the state budget are administered by the soccer community, they have signed up to the coalition agreement that they want, and that's why the excise duty is being increased. The Centre Party is not in the government and the Chairman of the Commission is not in our party either. There is no policy in this government. But it will certainly not be possible to move forward in Estonia and to balance the state budget in any way if there is no gradual taxation, in any way. The first step is that you pay back income tax exponentially to low earners. There is no escape from it, and there is no escape from the fact that companies are going to pay classic income tax. Whether it gets to you in 2017 or 2018, it will definitely arrive. There is no other way, because there is nothing more to take from the low-paid. That there shouldn't be any excise at all, I didn't say, it could be checked in the verbatim. But we must not differ several times from our neighbours in terms of the increase in excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U34	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, We recall last year when this so-called cluster law was passed. After all, this also led to great opposition among members of coalition parties. It even went so far that the government was forced to tie the adoption of this law to a vote of confidence, otherwise the members of the coalition parties would have rejected these laws one by one or even as a cluster. How do you think this bill goes now? Will common sense prevail among the members of coalition parties, or will it still be subject to the chain of command and party discipline rather than to the interests of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U36	People's ambassadors now have the opportunity to show whether they support growth, entrepreneurship and competitiveness, or whether they are only thinking about having another year of government. Such an excise rise policy will sooner or later go down. I think this run-off will take place as early as next year, because next year, excise duties will not be collected, as at the end of this year, fuel will be hoarded in advance and all excise duties will be collected in that year. But the moment of truth is in a few minutes. Whether they support transport companies and farmers, the way they behave, will soon be revealed. There really is no cluster bill before us today. There is a specific draft on the table which, by voting off, will allow the excise duty to be raised by a third higher than, for example, Latvia and, for the next two years, by 21%, as neighbours will not increase. That's the question of options. In fact, there is a vote in favour of whether or not another year can be ruled.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U37	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U38	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I was very pleased that you took this situation to compare with the situation of our fateful fellows, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, rather than talking about Nicaragua or, for example, Mongolia, where there are quite different circumstances. I too am excited about the issue of Finns and alcohol. It is known that they really go more now in Latvia, buy vodka and other intoxicating drinks. Undoubtedly, they are ruining their health by doing so. Do you have any information on whether Finns visit a doctor more than that in Latvia? My logic and experience say that they are very fond of Estonian medicine for various reasons. Perhaps we should contribute more to our medical facilities, among other things to raise the medical pay they have long wanted and waited for. The health-damaged Finns will come to us to heal themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U39	Thank you. Good question. There is no need to worry about Finns, the Finnish state can take care of itself, but we also have a great deal to go to Latvia to buy alcohol, and the quantities are increasing and increasing. What does that mean? Basically, they're moving the tax money to Latvia, but we need to find the medical money somewhere else. Drinking with an increase in excise duty is not restricted. In essence, excise money and VAT money are transferred to Latvia, but we have to pay the medical costs because the person comes back to Estonia and the alcohol has, of course, ruined his health. I can't answer about the Finns, I think they can handle themselves. However, I am sad that we are losing out in competitiveness, whether in tourism or in any other area. If we raise another 5% VAT on hotels, Finns will go to Riga hotels and no longer come to Tallinn. This issue of VAT for hotels awaits. It is not possible to manage it if we make it very difficult for our companies to remain competitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U40	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I take this opportunity to say to the members of the coalition, who are very sceptical about this draft, that economic growth will bring additional money to the budget, not if we collect more coins from the poor. There must be emphasis on this, so that we have investments and economic policies that generate economic growth. That's one. But do you have any information on the extent to which they have expressed their views and have been formally formalised by stakeholders directly concerned, such as alcohol producers, alcohol sellers, accommodations and transport companies? Do you have any information on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U42	Thank you. Sure. When this cluster law was passed, these opinions were all there in the Commission, but no one looked at them. I don't know how true the figures are from the fuel companies. But both Statoil and Olerex have confirmed that sales volumes have fallen drastically. This has also been confirmed by shops, certain shops have even had to be closed down. In fact, the ideal of the state budget should come from growth, jobs and businesses, not from an increase in excise duty. It's a question of choice, but it's the choice of this government. Let's see how far they get with this choice. I say that this policy is stuck and it is not possible to continue this way. We can't be that different from the neighbors. If we were a closed country, it would all be swallowed up, but we have an open country. Why should we feed our neighbors with millions? I don't understand why.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U43	Good waitress, there's one more question. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U44	Thank you. Good colleague! I am amazed at this situation. You can see exactly the figures you presented today. The country loses and loses badly. What kind of growth or growth in the state budget are we talking about when we see that we are actually losing? But was there a representative of the National Audit Office in the committee? At all, what is your opinion, what does the National Audit Office think about this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U45	Thank you. The National Audit Office has not analysed this. But let me give you another example: the Ministry of Finance is planning an increase of 2.7% next year, this year the increase is 0.3%. In this situation, the country is still increasing this price component through excise duties. I don't understand! There is a rise in prices on the world market, and now we are accelerating it with an increase in excise duty. Is the primary government budget only, or is the primary livelihood of people and the competitiveness of companies? I don't understand. Think about it before you vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U46	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U47	Good morning, everyone! Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak a little counterweight to the morbid mood that remained in the performance of Mr Tamme when he spoke about the Estonian economy, the people of Estonia and the entire life of Estonia. I will first give an overview of the Commission's discussions and then comment on some of the so-called facts that have been presented here, but which are not quite true. The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 12 September. Tarmo Tamm, a member of the Central Party Group, introduced it as a representative of the initiators. As has been said, the draft provides for the elimination of the increase in excise duties on fuel in the next two years: 2017 and 2018. The Government of the Republic did not support this draft and the Government's arguments were also presented to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The government confirmed that the impact of the increase in excise duty written in the Act will be assessed and the exact analysis will be submitted to the Riigikogu by 1 March 2018. We recall the discussions in this Chamber last year when the Riigikogu increased excise duties. Then the obligation of the Ministry of Finance, written in the law, was able to assess its effects: whether it worsens or improves Estonia's competitiveness, whether during this period our neighbouring countries have made some changes, or increased excise duties, and to what extent and how the government and the Riigikogu could react in this situation and whether they should react at all. That's point 1. Point 2 concerns tax receipts, which have been asked about here before. I'd be happy to read the exact figures. Fuel tax receipts in eight months of this year: €489.5 million planned for 2016, €319 million received, 14% more than forecast and €8 million more in absolute terms. Mr. Helme must have asked for exact figures, now they're fixed, all available from the Ministry of Finance website. I'm not making them up. The receipts of alcohol excise increased by 14.6%, i.e. by 7 million euros, and the receipts of tobacco excise increased by 2.1%, i.e. by 4 million euros. This was then a budgetary forecast versus real receipts within eight months. The fact that excise duties on fuel have been drastically reduced in the state budget is certainly not the case. In terms of excise duties on petrol and diesel, Estonia is 'in a good way at the back' compared to other European countries. I was just looking at these comparisons: in terms of excise duties on petrol, I thought we were behind us in the case of Bulgaria, Russia, Latvia and Lithuania, and diesel, this picture was more or less the same. We are among the so-called TOP 5 countries looking back at the rate of excise duty. The Commission also stressed to the government that we certainly want to see this analysis and that Estonia will not lose out in competitiveness, and the sooner we see it, the better. The fact that this analysis will be submitted to the Riigikogu is confirmed by law and confirmed at the committee meeting. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda by 22 September (consensus decision) and proposed to reject it at first reading (by 6 Commission members and against 5). Now I'm talking about those statements in the previous debate. One comment was certainly correct. The purchase of heavy fuel oil increased 82-fold at the beginning of the year compared to the previous year. The reason is most likely that it is mixed with diesel somewhere. In the interests of a fairer tax environment and in the interests of fuel sellers who do not use this practice, the government has a plan to bring a bill before the Riigikogu to remedy this situation. The purpose of the blending is very simple: excise duty on fuel oil is more than eight times smaller than diesel excise. These characteristics, which must be met by the diesel fuel being loaded into the tank, cannot be so damaged during mixing as to be understood, but can be determined by precise measurements. Visually, it is not possible to identify when diesel and heavy fuel oil are mixed together. We should definitely, let's be honest here, shut down the possibility of fraud. The Committee on Monetary Affairs is expecting a draft from the Ministry of Finance in the coming months. One calculation has also been carried out by one of the parties in the fuel market, which is that it is like the country is missing EUR 30 million. The Ministry of Finance calculated this EUR 30 million backwards. One of the parties to the fuel market has argued that 30 million euros of excise duty will not be collected and in this amount, fuel will be purchased from Latvia, Lithuania or somewhere else where it will be cheaper. EUR 30 million is equivalent to 55 million litres. The facts show, however, that 6 million litres of fuel have been purchased in Estonia from other countries this year, which is almost ten times the difference. There's been a deliberate or unintended mistake somewhere. This EUR 30 million lost is certainly not true, and the Ministry of Finance has calculated it. Now I'm going beyond the scope of the bill, but pre-argumented claims were also made on alcohol duty. As I read out, the growth numbers are clearly visible here, compared to the prognosis. Examples of other countries were given here. I recall that Estonian alcohol producers have sold a quarter of their production to the Finnish market in the last decade, perhaps 15 years. If Mr Tamm keeps saying that someone is going to buy vodka from Latvia, let us not forget that Estonia itself has sold a quarter of its production to Finland in recent decades. If there is concern about the success of the Estonian economy, I would remind you that this impact has been several times greater in a positive sense. Another example was given here. Kadri asked about public transport. I can talk about Elron. This year, thanks to the lower diesel price, Elron clearly saved on its projected fuel costs. Next year, this expenditure will be further reduced due to the procurement made. It was attempted here to argue that the increase in excise duty is being passed on to public transport and, in turn, through the increase in ticket prices to people, but this link cannot be established. These are the things I wanted to mark here. I'm ready to answer questions. But yes, I come back to the bill once again: the Commission decided to reject the draft at first reading and proposed it to the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U48	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U49	Honourable President! Dear colleague, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! As a curious person, I still have an interest in learning more about the economy and finances. I ask you the same thing I asked my colleague Tarmo Tammel. What kind of human behavior was desired and desired to change with this increase in fuel excise?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U50	Thank you. I think you've probably ripped out the Prime Minister's sentence when he was talking about harmful consumption, alcohol, tobacco and fuel excise. The goal of raising excise duty on fuel a priori is certainly not for anyone to miss a ride. This is a clear negative impact on the environment, carbon dioxide emitted from cars pollutes the environment, and it is rather harmful consumption. It is certainly not the aim of raising excise duties on fuel to put anyone in a more difficult position to get from point A to point B. I think you misquoted the Prime Minister a little. He referred to the behavioural effect of increasing excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, where this effect has clearly been shown, after all, the quantities consumed have decreased, and this is certainly positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U51	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! Has the movement of liquids between Latvia and Estonia, in this case fuel, but, as you rightly mentioned, the movement of alcohol, also affected the administrative burden on the tax administration? Has the tax administration incurred any new financial costs in this regard? Since it is foreseen that our government's excise affairs will continue, I wonder whether there will be an increase in the tax administration's budget for the next budget periods.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U53	Thank you. I don't know if you noticed this news, but about a month ago, the tax office made a call for the purchase of X-ray buses in border areas. They're primarily designed to detect tobacco, but also any other contraband. I remember the government planned nearly EUR 20 million for this, but maybe this purchase of buses eventually got cheaper. The answer is yes, the ability of the tax administration to identify contraband has been increased and this capacity will increase further next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U54	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U55	Good manager! Good waitress! When this cluster law was passed, it was planned that an additional EUR 60 million would be due to excise duty and VAT this year, and EUR 80 million next year. What are the figures at present, are there +60 this year and +80 million next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U56	Thank you. It's hard for me to answer without knowing your source where you took the numbers from. I read this year's forecast and the actual receipts in eight months. These receipts do not indicate a budgetary problem in terms of fuel, tobacco or alcohol excise duties, purely in financial terms. These receipts are all a plus sign. If you look at the excise duty, the collection of the excise duty on strong alcohol is more problematic than the collection of lean alcohol excise duty and the collection of diesel excise duty is more problematic than the collection of excise duties on petrol. But it's all within the prognosis. I'm not going to read the bill, they're available on the Ministry of Finance website. All excise duties are better than forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U57	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U58	Thank you, good manager. Good chairman of the committee! In the Commission, I was reminded that I did not trust the forecasts and estimates of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has clearly written that excise duties on alcohol will be less than EUR 5 million this year. Should I mistrust people in the ministry? Secondly, excise duties on fuel will be more than EUR 14 million, but we know that there will be two increases in excise duty this year and the excise duty increase in February was three times the rate. Do you still believe that the excise duty is in the right frame?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U59	Thank you. You certainly couldn't Naomi in the Commission, you're simply putting the forecasters of the Ministry of Finance in an uncomfortable position, questioning their independence and credibility. That was also my comment in the Commission. Of course, all MPs are entitled to their opinion, and if you see that errors have been made in the assumptions of the forecast or that something has been very brushed up, then, of course, give a signal of this. But to constantly say that the analysts and forecasters of the Ministry of Finance are somehow biased or do not understand, the most accurate is not. That was a comment on the Commission. Now, from the reference to the 5 million you mentioned in the case of alcohol duty. This figure is probably taken from the correction of the tax receipts this year. Both social tax and VAT receipts were adjusted in the summer forecast. As I said in reply to the previous question, yes, the amount of excise duty on strong alcohol is lower, but the total collection of excise duty on alcohol has improved clearly for the third time. There is no concern with the results in the big picture, which does not mean that excise duty on certain groups of products should not be paid attention due to the fall in excise duty. I come back to the beginning of my story. In analysing the effects of the increase in excise duty, the Ministry of Finance will certainly take this into account and submit a proposal to the Riigikogu if any adjustments to excise duty are needed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U60	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You waved absolute numbers here and said that the excise duty has come in more, and everything is very okay. But you didn't tell me what this excise was all about. I mean, a serious distiller takes on the vodka, a serious smoker keeps smoking, a serious businessman, like a colleague said, weeps and fouls, but he eats the cactus, right? But please tell me, if you get the excise duty loosely, how much less vodka and smoke will be bought and how much of this less vodka and smoke bought will make a great increase in excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U62	The fact that there is less vodka and less smoke is positive. Let's not just talk about budget receipts. If you're trying to say it's kind of bad, it's actually the other way around. This is certainly also part of the excise policy of the government and the coalition. Acts are known to have a dual effect, one behavioural and the other budgetary. Looking for balance there is a fine art. The debate between the parties about this is very welcome, and that is what I think we are having here. But I do not see a problem in that regard when both alcohol and tobacco consumption decreases in real terms. This is certainly a good direction for the Ministry of Social Affairs and it is also in the interests of the health of the Estonian people. I wouldn't be worried about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U63	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Speaker, My question concerns the competitiveness of the Baltic countries and farmers. About a week ago, farmers were here to protest against the government. As you know, this is the situation: the Estonian state already owes 70 million euros to farmers due to the non-payment of transitional payments. Now we are going down this road to try and raise the price of specialty diesel again and again. At the same time, the price of special-purpose diesel in Latvia and Lithuania is much lower and the transitional allowance is also paid there. Isn't that the destruction of agriculture? If this is not the case, please describe how increasing the price of special-purpose diesel will help to stimulate the development of agriculture?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U65	Thank you. It is certainly not the government's intention to destroy agriculture. To be honest, no one in the Committee on Monetary Affairs raised this aspect of agriculture from this perspective. I must go back to the framework of the draft and take into account the format of the debate. If you wish to raise this issue either in the Chamber of the Riigikogu or in the Commission, do so, but we did not discuss this aspect in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U66	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U67	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, After all, the fact that excise duties on fuel are better is because the price of oil has increased in the meantime. Can we talk about these numbers? After all, the forecasts also depend very much on where the price of oil is heading. If we look at the price of oil six months ago, we can see that now it is almost half the price. In the meantime, it was close to $25, now it's over $40. In my opinion, there is still a clearly unanswered question as to what happens if we raise the excise, but the neighbors do not. It makes no sense for us to compare ourselves with Russia, because it is not the same economic space, and it makes no sense for us to compare ourselves with Germany or Italy, for example, because it is far from us, we still have to compare ourselves with our neighbours. This question of the competitiveness of the Estonian economy is, in my opinion, completely unanswered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U68	Thank you. About the buffet, I think there's been some pretty good developments since autumn. Looks like there's a reason to go more. I'm not sure that half of them don't go there. You should specifically tell me what this statement is based on. I can refer to tax receipts which are factually confirmed. If you refer to the study that was carried out in the spring, I must say that if you are willing to pay higher taxes, you will receive 100% no-answers. It seems to me that there was a bit of a similar approach. When you ask if you are considering going, it turns out that it will certainly be considered, but whether this has happened in real life, you have to make sure that it is clear whether half of the transport companies have started to refuel elsewhere is true.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U69	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U70	Thank you, manager. Good chairman of the committee! I want you to finally say that this year's alcohol duty will be EUR 5 million less. In a situation where excise duty is less than 5 million, how will excise duty be increased again? Can you comment briefly on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U71	Thank you. Once again, we're getting out of the framework of the bill. You refer to the forecast correction that the Ministry of Finance makes every year. He presented it to the Committee on Monetary Affairs on Monday this week. I have not denied that the forecast, which has been made in budgetary terms, has been adjusted downwards, which does not mean that, in absolute terms, we are in a very difficult situation in terms of receipts. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U72	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I want to ask you a little bit about the other side. We also have another neighbour, Russia, on whose side, for example, in Luhamaa, four gas stations work full capacity 24 hours a day. One company in Luhamaa wanted to make a gas station on the Estonian side; it already flattened the site, but then they found it pointless, and there is only weeds growing there now. I have a question whether the Commission and the government have also discussed its impact on the Estonian economy, that in Russia petrol costs about 60% of the price of Estonian petrol.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U74	Thank you. I certainly can't speak on behalf of the government. This is not the way we discussed it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U75	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U76	Thank you. Rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I heard you say, in answer to one question, that Latvia was going to increase excise duties on fuel next year. At the same time, we asked in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and representatives of the Ministry of Finance argued the opposite that, to their knowledge, fuel excise duties will not be increased in Latvia next year. Could you specify how you know that Latvia is going to increase excise duties on fuel next year, and to what extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U77	As far as I know, 3%. In my opinion, the question in the Commission was whether it would be further planned to raise it. This was answered by a representative of the Ministry of Finance. But we can remember it together. Yeah, I think the increase in excise duty should be 3%.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U78	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm still not at peace with this diesel excise duty. After all, the problem is not for the large logistics companies that go and refuel in Latvia or Poland and live happily ever after, but for those who do not drive their large cars abroad, especially farmers who, for many reasons, are already in a very bad situation, are in an unequal position compared to their competitors in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. Our special-marked fuel is already more expensive than it is in countries that are competing with us, and it is rising even further. I went to Norway once this year. The price of fuel for our farmers is more or less the price of fuel for Norwegian farmers. Norway is known to be one of Europe's most expensive countries, but with the next rise in excise duty, we will go past them here. Do you consider this inequality to be fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U80	Thank you. During this debate, we have repeatedly concluded that we must compare ourselves primarily with the neighbouring countries. If the Ministry of Finance and their analysts come to the conclusion that we should correct diesel excise, then I think the Committee on Monetary Affairs also has this readiness. This proposal has not been put forward at the moment. Neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, nor the Ministry of Economic Affairs, appreciates the effects on the economy; this has not been proposed to a particular sector. In many respects, the Commission decided not to support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U81	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U82	Thank you. Good colleague! I wonder why we don't love our country, specifically, his budget. We're going to get 490 million incomes from excise duties, but we could get 600 or 700 million, I don't even know how much we could get, but we don't want it. Can you comment on why we are giving up on this, even though we could increase this part of the state budget by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U83	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! You mentioned the promises of the government programme, which, in view of the overall picture, do not favour the tax environment or the creation of new jobs. These are, unfortunately, not compensatory measures which would in any way compensate for the burden on rural people with excise duties on fuel. It's more of a concern that there's a job as close as possible, school doesn't disappear, and so on. Unfortunately, your measures are not exactly those. I will then ask directly whether you have also worked with other ministries in substance to discuss the consequences of one or the other tax amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U84	We're still working together, of course. You put a lot of things together here, you know, life in the country, life in the city, unemployment, schools. Unemployment in the Republic of Estonia is less than 5%, according to my latest knowledge. Soon we will already have full employment and the unemployment rate will fall even potentially dangerously low. I cannot say that there is no problem, but the problem is the shortage of skilled labour rather than unemployment. You referred to schools. This trend of the state taking certain steps to strengthen state secondary schools and improve upper secondary school education has not been taken in 2016, but has been very long-term. These steps, of course, again emerge from the framework of this bill, but I do not agree that all the problems you raised are linked to increasing excise duties on fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U85	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U86	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You mentioned that all members of the Riigikogu are entitled to their opinions. It is very commendable that we have this right, but is our critical remarks and criticisms of the producers, traders, etc. to be taken into account, or is all of this simply an air-writing exercise?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U87	Thank you. The debate in the Chamber is certainly not an air-writing debate. I wouldn't want to underestimate its value in any way. Communication with sub-unions and market participants will certainly continue at government level as well as in the Riigikogu and Riigikogu committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U88	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Andres Ammas, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U89	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Today, once again, this debate will inevitably result in déjà-vu: it has already been, all of which we have already talked about, and all these arguments have been put forward in mutual terms. But if there is still a problem, we need to talk about it again and bring it up again. On behalf of the Free Party Group, I congratulate my colleagues on taking this issue on the agenda. Already last spring, the members of the Free Party handed over more than 1000 signatures that had been collected on the petition 'The sudden rise in excise duty on fuel must be canceled! '. Later, thousands of signatures collected by the Centre Party followed. I also remember the debate on this petition in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As an artistic figure, these thousands of signatures were, in the opinion of the majority of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, or coalition members, like a tedious fly-peer, which is not to be taken to heart. It seemed to us then, and I think that to all the thousands of signatories across Estonia too, it seems that the coalition has the most hypocritical day to day to praise itself, how much child support is being raised and how it is being tried to improve the lives of people and reduce child poverty, there are no signs of it to this day, but with the other hand, to take the same money at the expense of the same people who have already been mentioned today and of other low-paid people who cannot cancel their daily inevitable journeys. Mr Tarmo Tamm spoke about the damage caused by the too steep rise in excise duties on fuel to businesses, and there is no point in repeating that. We believed then that this increase in excise duty, which had been made lightly to fulfil the election promise in the coalition agreement, was unthinkable, perhaps even a bit impertinent. That wasn't a good idea. I say once again here, as I have said in the debate on many other points, that there would be nothing to be ashamed of if the government would admit and then correct some of the mistakes that have been made. This would not result in public ridicule or criticism, but rather increase the rating of the government and coalition and improve their reputation. The Free Party Group is in favour of the draft we are debating today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U90	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U91	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, As Andres Ammas has already said, there is a lot of munching around here, but I still remember a few things. When the bill for tax increases was discussed here in the Chamber of Riigikogu, it was repeatedly warned that tax increases will have negative consequences, one of which is that the planned tax receipts will not materialise. The fact that tax receipts are actually decreasing is often the case with tax increases. Secondly, we repeatedly pointed out that this was detrimental to the Estonian economy and competitiveness. Although the Ministry of Finance is distorting the bill here and bringing us beautiful figures, we know it's just fancy statistics. In fact, tax receipts have not improved as much as expected, in some sectors tax receipts have even deteriorated. I'll explain how. Of course, our economic environment has deteriorated and, of course, our competitiveness has deteriorated. At that time, of course, our criticisms were answered that experts knew better. I asked the Minister of Finance whether, if these experts were wrong, the experts would be fired or the political decision-maker, or the minister, would resign. It's just a muyati. Now we have the consequences. They can only get worse, because the plan for tax increases has not yet been completed; tax increases are planned to continue. But smaller shops are already shut down because there has been a drop in turnover, and border gas stations are already being shut down, or life is shrinking and jobs are disappearing. The fact that we have the least unemployment in many years is also a statistical distortion of the eye. We still have a very large emigration, especially among the working-age population. We continue to have a very high retirement rate for the working-age population. So the fact that we have little unemployment is not a sign of the good structural functioning of the Estonian economy. It has also become apparent this year that the profit margins of companies have decreased, i.e. the space at which wages or investments could be raised has decreased. Estonian exports have also decreased. It fluctuates from month to month, but basically it has decreased, which suggests very specifically that the competitiveness of the Estonian economy has suffered as a result of these tax increases. Tax increases are planned next year. Once again, what Mr Tarmo Tamm also said must be crossed down: the fact that excise duties have been received well this year is a distortion of the eye. Companies bought a lot of old-priced fuel in January and will also buy a lot of old-priced fuel at the end of this year, as the new year's price will rise. It creates a deceiving idea, like everything's okay. No, it's not okay. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that when forecasts were made, much lower oil prices were taken into account than they are now. If the basic price increases, the tax will also have to increase. So this, too, is not a good indicator if the price of oil is to rise further next year. It can be said, yes, that tax receipts are improving, but if, for example, as happened at the beginning of this year, the price of oil due to overproduction or for some political reasons, or due to the rapid cooling of the world economy or the banking crisis, there are many risks that should fall back to the 30 dollar limit, then it is clear that our excise duties will fall below all kinds of predictions. As it turned out in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the average oil price for next year's tax receipts will be estimated at just under $45. It may not stay this high, and it may not even get that high. So it is quite clear that the current tax policy is killing the Estonian economy. It is quite clear that this has caused our budget to rumble from every corner. The solution is not to extort the last one out of the pockets of Estonian people and Estonian companies by finally killing any normal economy, but the solution is that it is precisely through tax cuts that a proper economic growth must be achieved in Estonia, accompanied by a much more rapid increase in the collection of tax sums into the budget than it is now. So, of course, these tax increases must be reversed. If we fail today, then the government will have to be replaced to raise these taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U92	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U93	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to talk for a long time because it's been said very thoroughly, and it doesn't seem that this is going to help much. I'm just going to specify a few things. We are not applying for an increase in excise duty this year; we are asking for a withdrawal of excise duty in the next two years. If this increase in excise duty remains in place, we will remain a country with a higher excise duty than Latvia and Lithuania. So we're talking about the next increase in excise duty, we're not talking about the increase that took place this year. It's pretty important. Before you vote, I'll bring you some numbers, maybe you'll think about it more. For example, the difference between excise duty on diesel in Estonia and Latvia will be about 150 euros per thousand litres next year. Think about it, then, if you fill a thousand litres in Latvia, you will win 150 euros, in percentage it will be 44.6%. If we go on with the same law, the difference will be even bigger next year, already EUR 200 per thousand litres, or 58.9%. We should all think about whether we want the Estonian economy to develop somewhere in the first place and whether we still have some competitiveness. I say that we are completely different from our Baltic neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania. Look at their electric excise and fuel excise. The impact of excise duties on the economy is very significant. If we compete in one market, there is no way we can deny it. We should still create a level playing field for our businesses. The Centre Party calls for support for this bill, at least for those who care about Estonia's competitiveness and economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U94	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. It is now the case that the initiator of the draft, I understand that, has proposed that the draft be dealt with further, but the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft 235 at first reading. We have to start voting on this... I'm sorry! Urve Tiidus, a procedural question? Please, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I propose to take a three-minute break before the vote. I don't know if I said it in time or too late.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U96	Good fellows! The recess requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. We are at the first item on the agenda. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 235 at first reading. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal by the commission of reference to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. by 48 votes to 37 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. Draft 235 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U97	Good manager! Good waitress! If half of the transport companies refuel in Latvia and elsewhere in neighbouring countries after the increase in excise duty, how can excise duty receipts be higher? If half of the members of the Riigikogu stopped going to the buffet, how could the revenue of our buffet grow?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U98	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U99	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You are absolutely right that the government will create an environment in which businesses must operate. This bill isn't about alcohol duty, it's about fuel excise. From an economic point of view, the excise duty rate on diesel is particularly important. Today we have this rate significantly different from that of our southern neighbours, and this difference is increasing. We cannot compare ourselves with France, Romania or Norway; we must compare ourselves in our geographical position. After all, it is clear that our economy is struggling. In Latvia, when there is huge economic growth, several percentages, two-3%, we only had growth of 0.5%. I believe that this is also directly related to excise duties on fuel. Don't you think the excise duty on diesel could be increased less?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U101	Thank you. I certainly agree that we need to compare ourselves with neighbouring countries and their activities when changing excise policy. I guess I don't disagree on that one. I myself have said several times, and the government has also confirmed that this analysis is being carried out. When Estonia reaches such a border that we clearly undermine the competitive position of Estonian entrepreneurs, changes must be made. Here too, I think, there are no differences. Latvia raises excise duties on fuel. Yes, it is true, it does not raise as much as Estonia does. Latvia, in turn, monitors what Poland is doing. It's all a so-called connected vessel, or they're all part of a single chain. Everyone is watching what neighbouring countries are doing. At the moment, you are proposed not to support this bill. When the government... [[Summing.]] I think I interrupted. If a different proposal comes up when the government brings it here, we will definitely discuss it again. I fully agree with this that comparison with neighbouring countries is important and that the country's rapid response capacity is also important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U102	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You spoke with strong support about the need to strengthen control of fuel mixers. You also said that taxes are no longer a fiscal measure but a behavioural measure. More than 200 years ago, Emperor Napoleon knew that control could be much more expensive than it seemed at first. He said that, in order to be effective in foolish cases, not only checks must be put in place, but also checks on checks and checks on checks must be carried out. You didn't consider this control in the budget too cheap, did you? It is cheaper to have a smart fiscal and tax policy, which is really a high pilotage, solves problems better and more painfully, and it also comes out much cheaper. Or do we have something quite different from what was said 200 years ago that a smart fiscal policy would be smarter than trying to control the controllers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U104	Thank you. Two things for comment. I was talking about checking, answering the question of whether the state has increased the capacity of the tax administration to detect smuggling of contraband. The answer is yes, the capacity of the tax administration has been increased, they are being bought new, very modern X-ray tubes. If the Committee on Monetary Affairs is going to touch them, I'm going to invite other people to join us. The other thing is that interference, which you yourself referred to. There's no question of control. In the case of blending diesel and heavy fuel oil, the question is that it is unfair for fuel to reach the tank, which has not been subject to excise duty to the extent that it would have been made by buying fuel from a perfectly legal company. This creates an unequal business environment within the sector. There will be a draft before you or us, which should eliminate this situation and this interference in the Estonian fuel market should no longer take place. That control paradigm or logic you developed, I didn't tell you. The control was purely that the IRS would get better tools to detect contraband.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U105	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! It was quite interesting to hear from you this noteworthy news that 20 million euros of X-ray buses have been purchased by the IRS. This amount is somehow correlated with the deficit that will develop by the end of the year, which is 20 to 25 million. Did it occur to the wise men of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that, before playing with excise duties, one could send Liisa Oviir to Latvia, for example, to investigate how big they have this tax increase, to make sure that prices are more or less low and that there is no such uncontrolled fuel flow here or there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U107	Thank you. Was it proposed that instead of buying buses, the money be transferred to the health insurance fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U108	There is no way we can ask more specific questions here. Please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U109	Thank you. Is the payment of €600 or €700 million of excise duties on fuel simply hope or what it is based on? Fuel consumption has increased steadily over the last few years, but statistics show that the market has more or less been reached. Assuming that Estonian people travel one and a half times more and therefore consume petrol or diesel one and a half times more is, in my opinion, a bit wrong in 2016. There is no indication of an increase in the market and consumption in this volume, despite even the rates of excise duties on fuels. The volume has been reached and the increase is rather 1%, 2% or 3%, not by projecting your claim on excise duties, tens of percentages. Such growth is not real.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U110	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U111	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have a question about agriculture, and I have a request not to answer that this was not discussed in the Commission. This was certainly discussed before the adoption of the law that we are now amending. I do not want to ask the fan and lover of agriculture, but the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If we raise excise duty now, it will help some farmers to go bankrupt. But if we didn't, they'd continue to act and people would get a job with them. Wouldn't that be better for the budget and for the future and economy of Estonia at all? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U112	Thank you. I will not respond so that we did not discuss it in the committee. Honestly, we didn't discuss it. But I don't think we can focus exclusively on excise duty when we talk about agriculture. Let's take it wider. After all, the state supports companies through various grants and guarantees through EAS. Speaking of tax policy, social tax will fall next year and tax-free income will increase. All these measures have an impact not only on farmers, but on all Estonian entrepreneurs. Perhaps it is not quite right to tear out one segment; it is even less worth linking this situation to fuel excise. These activities, which the state is doing not only to improve the lives of farmers, but also to improve the business environment for all other businesses, and to reduce the tax burden, I say once again that social tax will fall next year, but tax-free income will increase, must also be taken into account. If it can be said that the increase in excise duty on fuel, which has an impact on the litre of fuel of five cents, is going to bankrupt a company, there must have been some kind of gap in the company's business plan. This impact on the company's cost structures is not at such a rate as to bankrupt the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U113	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U114	Thank you. Good performer! From your answers we heard that we were doing as if we were doing well, we are pleased that our money is going to Latvia, we have the right tax policy, and so on. But if everything is right, why do we not have enough money for health care, education, pensions or agriculture? Why are people dissatisfied, and why is our economic growth constantly falling? We hear Latvia and Lithuania are doing better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U115	Thank you. Firstly, the country cannot say in advance that growth will be 5% or 10% next year. The state creates the environment and the state must also take into account the environment where Estonia is now. Look at what is happening in Europe: the overall extreme uncertainty, the crisis at the end of the crisis, Brexit, the migration crisis, Russia. Put all this together and see what the economic growth of these countries is like. We cannot assume that in this environment, where Estonia is a member of the European Union, it should be able to show an economic growth of 10 or 15%. This assumption is simply wrong. I do not think that growth of 1.3% should be our goal and ambition. Certainly not, this growth should be greater. But the environment in which the Republic of Estonia is now, in 2016, must be taken into account, where the world is, in which the European Union is and in which our great Eastern neighbour is. This must be taken into account, adapted to it and all that we can do in the coming years is to ensure that growth is greater, as far as we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U116	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U117	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! Estonia's vision could be that Estonia is a human-friendly country, where not all people should live in the city, but more or less equal living conditions should also be for people living in the country. In fact, the nature of life is also very directly affected by the fuel excise duty. The hardest thing to do is to deal with people living in places other than the capital city and major cities, because they must have two means of transport. You have to go to school and exercise, you have to work. What are the compensatory measures that, if excise duties on fuel were to rise, would help to equalise the living conditions of people living in the countryside with those of urban people? Has MKM discussed in more detail how to support people who cannot buy enough fuel at one point to manage their family?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U118	Thank you. A human-friendly country and the possibility to choose a place of residence in the city or in the country is a good thing to fight for or to strive for. There are certainly no differences of opinion in this. Speaking of the measures that the country is now taking, I would not want to oppose urban and rural people in any way. These measures apply to everyone: a number of benefits are increasing, such as rising child benefits in the next year, both first and second child support and child-rich family benefits, three-year-old family benefits may rise to 400 euros in the middle of next year, social tax will fall, tax-free income will increase, which is a clear measure to improve the lives of people on lower incomes. These are the steps that the country is taking. The fact that fuel excise is going to break it all, I certainly don't agree. These things that, as you put it, will be given in return are quite a lot, and they will certainly compensate a lot for the five-per-cent increase in the price of this fuel litre.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U119	I'm thinking now. I was on those words to reject the first reading, and then I said that we must start preparing the vote. I think you said that at the very right time. Break three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U120	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U121	I'm sorry! The real question was whether Liisa Oviir should go to Latvia. I don't know his travel plans. As far as I am concerned, he has taken external communication quite seriously and is actively promoting Estonia in other countries. You must ask her directly about your visit to Latvia. I think he's ready to answer you directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U122	Thank you. Was the question of Estonia's competitiveness completely unanswered? Let me get this straight. Estonia's competitiveness cannot be assessed through just one change in excise duty. It is a whole, it means an economic environment, it means an entrepreneurial environment, it means the ability of the state to attract entrepreneurs here, and it also means state support for Estonian entrepreneurs to find new export markets. There are so many components of the competitiveness you have mentioned, fuel excise is just one small part of it all. All the factors used by the Estonian state to stimulate economic growth must be assessed as a whole, and we must look at what these levers are. Tarmo Tamm said earlier that the government as a whole was responsible for only 1.3% of economic growth. Well, it's not the government's fault! As you said very rightly in one of your replies, the money is brought into the budget by entrepreneurs. The government does not bring it, the government creates the environment and gives businesses the opportunity to act. The fact that the government is writing somewhere on paper that growth will be 5% next year may not be the case in China, Estonia is not. These are two different modes. I would not like to transfer this Chinese model to Estonia well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U123	Let's move on to the second item. The first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Organisation of popularity to establish the limits of the international protection of Estonia' presented by Riigikogu members Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Ivanova, Rein Ratas, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaare, Jaanus Karilaidi, Anneli Oti, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassijevi, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi, Peeter Ernitsa, Toomas Vitsut, Mailis Repsi, Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Heimar Leng, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb and Vladimir Velman' begins to begin. I ask for the draft to be introduced to the Riigikogu Chair of the Riigikogu member Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U124	Ladies and gentlemen, Democracy is not just about elections; dictators could also be chosen. By the way, in some parts of the world this is what scientists call electoral authoritarianism. Democracy is also distinguished from authoritarianism by the fact that power cannot do everything. Democratic power is limited to the will of the people; it is limited to the rights of citizens. That means we in this house and our colleagues in Stenbock's house can't do everything. We can do what we have promised our voters in the electoral programmes that we have discussed in the public before the elections, and the result of these promises and debates. Unfortunately, in the run-up to the last elections, there was a social issue about the orphan, namely immigration. At the same time, almost immediately after the elections, the refugee crisis exploded, and today the question of what a sensible refugee policy should be is, in the view of almost all people, one of the key issues of political debate. However, since most electoral programmes do not actually include clear and comprehensive refugee policy principles, so that we can take legitimate decisions, both us and once again the government, we need to ask the people of Estonia, our voters, citizens for this legitimacy. We should therefore hold a referendum during the inter-election period. I am pleased to see from today's agenda that there are two such proposals for referendums, both on the refugee mother. This shows that this issue is important and there are indeed people in this Chamber who care that decisions are legitimate. According to us, the initiators of this draft, one of the most important and keen questions in Estonia's public debates over the last year and a half has been how many beneficiaries of international protection Estonia should accept and who will decide on it. The draft decision gives Estonian citizens the opportunity to express their will. It provides for a referendum on the fundamental principles of international protection for foreigners. The draft asks for the agreement of the people on a policy that requires Estonia to clearly state the threshold at the legislative level each year, at the maximum number of people that Estonia offers international protection. This limit on international protection would cover both refugees who have applied for protection directly from Estonia, beneficiaries of subsidiary protection if we want to offer it, as well as displaced persons under international programmes, to all those who apply for some kind of protection. Article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provides for the right of everyone to apply for and use asylum in other countries, but the same declaration does not place an obligation on any country to offer such protection. There is no such obligation to provide asylum in international law in general, even though a person has the right to seek asylum. This means that if the membership of the country, the people, the citizens who live in that country decide on it, it is one of the pillars of sovereignty. Every country has the right to decide how many people can be granted asylum, not all applicants need to be accepted by any country. The provision of international protection inevitably entails obligations and costs for the state. In Estonia, for example, they have been formulated in the Act granting international protection to an alien. People are entitled to benefits; the state has a duty to ensure language learning. That makes absolutely no sense. If we tell anyone we're protecting him, we really have to protect him. He must have a home, he must have the opportunity to be educated, he must have the opportunity to know what the laws of our country are, so that he cannot be treated worse than others in the labour market, for example, we must teach him the language. But all these responsibilities, if we want to treat people humanely, involve costs. This means that if we want to make an effective international protection policy, we also need to plan the financial instruments that make this protection possible. Any offer of international protection is a political decision; it is, in fact, a budgetary decision on how much funds we see in our budget to protect people. This dispute should take place every year, on the basis of how rich our country is. The holding of this referendum, which we are proposing, gives a clear message as to whether this threshold must be fixed by the legislator, whether we must give the citizens of Estonia every year a certain knowledge for the following year that we will receive the greatest number of people, because we have guaranteed the protection of so many people, or whether it is a policy suitable for the Estonian public to give international protection to any number of people at any given moment, as a result of the current situation. There have been a number of fears in the public debate about the current ad-hoc approach to refugee policy. If we give the people the two options to decide whether we will continue as we do now or give the people some certainty, we will give this issue to the people, it also means that we will be able to discuss these choices openly once again very clearly. This means that all kinds of fears and anxieties will be answered. The referendums are not only important because the people are going and voting, they say no about a question, but also because they allow important issues to be negotiated publicly and we can be better as a society, we are developing as a society, people are more involved in governance, we are moving more and more away from the authoritarianism of the elections. People will also be involved in politics in inter-election times. It's all going to relieve the tension. I have a firm opinion on which proposal I am in favour of, I think it would be very good if we set this limit. However, if the people are not in favour of this, then of course it must be accepted and the way things have been done. But once we have negotiated it publicly, this decision is legitimate, people will think for themselves why they should offer asylum and why they should not offer asylum, under what conditions these people have lived and under what conditions they live in among us and what the consequences will be. I think that, as a result, our society will be more coherent. As a result, I think we all have a better chance of living later. We will then also have a specific decision, and there will be no more debate about what the people want, whether they want to do at all and what they should do. It is clear what the citizens of Estonia are expecting from us now and what everyone is, of course, worth. I also have a technical remark. Since we have already tabled this proposal in the spring, we have offered there that the referendum could take place on 16 October. Today, this date is obviously too close; it is not possible to hold a referendum so quickly. If you decide today that the organisation of this referendum is, in principle, a good idea and you leave the draft in the process, we will certainly propose that this date be changed. We are also debating another referendum on refugee policy today. We do not mind that these two proposals to unite this right of the lead committee will have a right to referendums one day, asking the people for an opinion on both issues. This would strengthen even more the idea that we are going through the foundations of refugee policy widely and give even clearer guidance to both the legislative and executive authorities on what kind of refugee policy Estonia needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U125	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U126	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! I have a very specific question. Estonia has an immigration quota provided for in the Act. Would this refugee quota fall under it, or would it be completely separate from it? How would they relate to each other? The second thing is that the current government does not actually stick to this immigration quota that has been introduced into the law, and that is precisely what is being passed by the sign of family reunification and reception of refugees. Our actual immigration is many times greater than this quota. What can be done in this situation and can such a thing be prevented if we introduce a refugee quota?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U127	Thank you. Yes, I too have to admit that the Estonian Government has done what very many other governments have done: immigrants and refugees have been confused. They actually represent two completely different ways of people moving. Immigrants generally enter the country because they want to live there and, if possible, work there and want to determine for themselves how long they will stay in that country. Some may want to stay for a while, but that may change when they arrive in that country. We have seen very often that a person says that he or she only wants to work in Finland until he or she buys a washing machine for her. Then he buys the washing machine, but then he thinks he needs something else. And they will remain in this country for a long and long and long, many decades. Immigration is basically long-term. This is the movement of people when a person says that he will stay in that country as long as he wants. Countries can, of course, allow this. Once again, it is the sovereign decision of the state how much it allows immigrants to enter. The refugee, the seeker for international protection, is something else entirely. A refugee is a person who says that he is being persecuted or that his life is in danger, his physical well-being is in danger where he lives, and his country no longer protects him: 'Please, protect me because my country will not protect me! " Of course, the moral requirement is stronger in this case, because it is relatively easy to refuse admission for immigrants; it is more difficult to refuse refugees. Once again, the presence of a refugee has been assigned to a particular threat and, if this threat falls away, the status of a refugee will also disappear. This means that these two movements need different policies. It is very important that we say at national level that refugees are one thing, immigrants are another, and we discuss these issues separately. As soon as we mix these two things together, what the good questioner pointed out is that we say, yes, we restrict immigration, but basically we want people to do good, and if there's a war somewhere, we'll let everyone into our country, just in case. As a result, we are in a situation that I have seen, where people who have been granted international protection have to work not for eight hours, but have 10 hours or 15 hours shifts, even 30 hours shifts behind the sewing machine in worse cases. This is not appropriate for Europe. We have labour laws here, we have to protect people. But if we accept many people to whom we cannot teach, what their rights are and what our laws are, then the exploitation of people is very clear. Yes, this bill improves the situation in the sense that things are clear. This bill does not allow immigrants to be smuggled into Estonia under the name of refugee policy; this quota must be separate from the immigration quota. That's a separate quota, and we're discussing how big it is. That's the question of this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U128	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U129	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The representatives of the government, as well as the Prime Minister, have repeatedly assured us in this very Chamber that Estonia does not have an upper limit for immigration and admission of immigrants. The government has also taken down the sentence in the basic document of Estonian European Union policy that Estonia refuses to accept all forms of compulsory quotas. In the light of this situation, how do you see a future when we have basically opened all the doors and windows to mass immigration, while even Frau Merkel has already realised that his policy has been extremely wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U130	Thank you, good questioner! That's why I'm on the floor with this folk poll or the draft referendum. I am pleased that all my group members have supported this. This is such a fundamental question that the Estonian people must answer it. What future do they want to see? Do they want to see a specific quota when they show their natural goodwill? For example, if someone gets a house on fire, the people of Estonia will come very quickly to help and homes will always be found for children. It is basically the same helpfulness, but this inherent goodwill and helpfulness should not be abused. Indeed, our current laws and the current government's policies allow it to be misused and allow for the situation that I have seen throughout Europe, that, in essence, cheap labour is being smuggled into the country, who is working under very poor conditions, who gets so little pay, that some of them cannot even rent a room, they rent a bed for eight hours, and then they go back to work. As a result, of course, the working conditions of all will deteriorate and the position of trade unions will weaken. I have spoken to these people myself and asked why they would not turn to the trade union if they were treated in this way. They're scared. Some of them threaten their own countrymen, who have said that if someone goes to the union, their family will be doing very badly in their own country. I would like the Estonian people to be very clear as to whether they want such a future or whether we are trying to do things properly. This bill gives the Estonian people the opportunity to decide what our future will be. Do we have a country based on rights? Do we recognise that one of the pillars of Estonia and Europe is that an employee has rights and is protected, or do we create such a situation that every time someone wants better working conditions or more pay, it is said that more people who do not know that trade unions are reasonable or who do not know that they are entitled to leave? This is what happens very often in Europe. I hope we do not choose such a future, but this decision must be in the hands of Estonian citizens. They need to know what the future is. Organising this referendum will enable everyone who cares and knows the matter to go and explain what may happen in the future, to do so rationally and with the help of facts to show what has happened in other countries, and then to ask: what do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U131	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We have been talking in this Chamber day after day about issues such as the deficit of the Health Insurance Fund, economic competitiveness, excise duties, we have been talking about money flowing out of the country, etc. We know very well that there is a world where I may be wrong, but I believe that this is the case for 60 to 70 million people who are either war refugees or forced migrants. There are two things intertwining here. Every immigrant, every refugee, proselytically, has a price tag on it because it costs to receive and maintain it. Germany, which announced an open-door policy, paid half a billion euros last year at the expense of its defence costs in order to accommodate refugees in any way, etc. How many do you think we could accept refugees on the basis of both economic and demographic estimates?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U133	Thank you. There are actually two issues. The first, which concerns refugees, is not even so much a result of European Union law, but of the Geneva Convention, to which all the countries of the European Union have acceded, which means that it is integrated into European Union law. But most of the world's countries have acceded to the Geneva Convention. These principles, which concern the prohibition of return, are not only met by the Member States of the European Union, but by all the countries which have acceded to the Geneva Convention. Here we really do not have sovereign decision-making powers; we cannot send a person back to the country where he is to be executed. We must not do this, in which case we are violating the Geneva Convention. As far as resettlement and relocation are concerned, this issue is a little different. We can, of course, find different interpretations here, but my interpretation is that the European Commission does not have a mandate to impose on the Member States of the European Union an obligation to relocate and relocate the people who have come to the European Union. They've been trying to interpret it like that. In my opinion, there is no such obligation. Estonia has made it very clear that we do not agree with the figures that are mandatory for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U134	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have a purely practical question. Do countries such as Hungary, Slovakia and some others who have refused to accept refugees, immigrants, erect fences, send them policemen against them violate the Geneva Convention?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U136	Thank you. Not in itself, because those who have come to Hungary have come from a third, safe country. Hungary has the right to send people back to the country from which they came and where their lives, health and freedom are not at risk. If these people came from a country that is not safe, Hungary would be obliged to give them asylum at the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U137	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U138	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I'm trying to fit three quick questions in one minute. You mentioned the cost of a referendum so that about EUR 2 million would cost us this decision. Do you think that would be too much money to introduce direct democracy? If the referendum says no, we do not want to accept more refugees, it would be a very high cost savings in the long term. Two million euros would be just a seed next to it. The second quick question. You said that the European Commission does not have the right to create a coercive mechanism. Do you agree that the qualified majority at the meetings of the Council of the European Union is legally contrary to sovereignty issues and that the European Commission has harmed Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia? Thirdly, are the highest authority in Estonia a nation, not the treaties and regulations of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U139	Thank you. I think that if there is a need to hold a referendum on a matter and the majority of the Riigikogu, as foreseen, considers it necessary to hold a referendum, then a referendum should be organised, regardless of its cost. What it's gonna cost was just information. Every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to wonder whether it is practical or not to make this expense on these issues. Secondly, when the European Commission decides by qualified majority, the situation is different. It hasn't been done so far. If Hungary, Slovakia or any other country is not satisfied with the decision of the European Commission, it has the right to refer the matter to the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U140	There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Mart Nutt! I'm opening negotiations. Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U141	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, I did not receive an answer from Mart Nut, a honourable member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to my last question concerning the highest authority, the people. This, however, is where the conflict arises. What must we, above all, be guided by our decisions and looking to the future, whether the Treaties of the European Union and European Union legislation that is binding on us, or whether we must rely primarily on the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, according to which the nation of the highest authority has the right to decide on matters which, in the current context and at the present moment, may conflict with the international obligations and conventions to which we have joined? As regards the Convention on the Status of Refugees, which was adopted in 1951, I recall a term such as the spirit of the era. I listened three or four days ago to the opinion of a legal expert from Vikerradio about the Estonian Constitution, which concerned that the candidate for President must be a citizen at birth. This legal expert emphasized that we must consider the spirit of the age. Elik said that we should define differently the meaning of the Constitution, which was then put in the preamble, and should not take into account the need for citizenship at birth when applying for the President of the Republic of Estonia so strictly. The same applies to the Convention on the Status of Refugees. The spirit of that era was primarily due to the tragedy of millions of people after World War II, who had to flee from repression and occupation to countries where it was safer and where refugee status and asylum could be obtained. Today, this Convention on the Status of Refugees has largely exhausted itself, because the same convention, which was adopted in good faith and ratified in our Parliament in 1997, has been abused, i.e. in its current form, the Convention on the Status of Refugees does not fulfil its fundamental objective, given the spirit of the era. We should not cling to all conventions that no longer serve our purpose as an iron bolt. Rather, there could be a debate on whether the nature and content of certain conventions should be reviewed and modernised according to the spirit of the age. I will now go specifically to the draft tabled by the Centre Party Group. Ladies and gentlemen of the Centre Party will remember that I put certain questions about the purpose of the draft at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As it has been said in a relatively general way that there will be an upper limit on the number of beneficiaries of international protection, I certainly agree with the proposal to send this draft to second reading during the debate. It would then be possible to propose improvements and to establish this objective. The aim of the draft is now, as I understood at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in particular, to curb the wave of immigration from southern Europe across the Mediterranean, which is due to the Middle East and North Africa, currently mostly from North Africa, not due to the potential threat that may be ambushed in the form of conflicts in our eastern neighbourhood, be it Ukraine, Belarus or another country. Before the second reading, other political groups and members of the Riigikogu would be able to propose amendments to highlight what the purpose of this referendum is and what we want to exactly limit. We therefore made our own draft decision and put it into procedure. More specifically, there is a point that we want to limit and decide on, which we want to put in the hands of the people in a referendum, so that it is possible to take down tensions in society on such critical issues and also to give decision-making power to the people. Today, it is one of the topics that has divided society, where 80% (±5%) think that Estonia should not liberalise its refugee policy, and then it is a marginal minority who thinks that all international conventions are binding on us through the ages and we cannot do anything about it. In any case, the Conservative People's Party supports sending this draft to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U142	On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U143	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this discussion. I'm going to specify a few things that have occurred here. I recall that a free society can never base its decisions on a sacred text, be it the Bible, the Koran, or the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. A free country means that we make the laws ourselves, and all laws are changeable, all conventions are reviewable. When times change, we make decisions. A good colleague, Mart Nutt, made it look like the Geneva Convention was something that was not at all debatable. In fact, this is not quite the case, nor has it been discussed for decades. These principles of refugee policy, agreed after World War II, when the idea was that refugee flows were always exactly the same as they were created after the war, did not correspond to the realities of the real world. Therefore, they have been amended several times later by several conventions and still need to be amended. They will be discussed further, and Estonia should take a significantly stronger position in amending conventions of this kind, which overly restrict the sovereignty of the countries. This does not mean that we should not help people who are suffering, but it must be really possible to help them. We have seen how disregard for how many people are being received has caused very serious crises in Africa. We recall the great African war that started when the refugee flows could not be contained. It finally caused genocide. This shows that there are problems with international agreements. The international community is generally aware of this and these problems are also being discussed. Estonia should contribute more to this debate. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U144	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U145	Thank you. This is a very important question and it highlights what I said in my speech. Indeed, offering people protection costs us if we do not want to treat them like slaves. That's what I hope no one wants. How much money we can give for this, there is no expert response. How much money we want to allocate to something, how much money we want to allocate, for example, to job creation in Ida-Virumaa, to schools, to teachers' salaries, to raise the pay of doctors, to create reasonable working conditions for nurses and to decent life for refugees, we will discuss when we make the budget. These are all political decisions. There's no expert response that's best. We have to convince each other, and that is why I think that how much money we want to allocate to refugees we should argue every year in this Chamber and the voters will make a decision. We will also tell voters before the elections that we think it is reasonable to spend so much, because that is when we can allocate so much more to doctors and kindergartens and everything else. It is a budgetary issue and it is a political issue. There is no need to pretend like the question of how much money we give to something would somehow be technical. No, it's not! These are all political choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U146	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U147	Good waitress! Do you think that the limit should be set on the number of people in Estonia who listen to rastapaets, reggae music, soul music, people who respect rap and practice rap, or how many restaurants or cafes we have established by non-Estonians? Is there supposed to be a limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U148	Thank you, good questioner! No, you don't. But that's another story. This question of how much and how the country should welcome people from other countries is the foundation of sovereignty. What's that about? If we accept anyone, he has rights. If we accept someone, he will have the right to decide on this community and also to change the rules of this community. Otherwise, we're hypocritical. Otherwise, we say that the people we accept are some other category of people that we command as we want, for example, do not allow them to wear the rapists. This cannot be allowed by a just country, which inevitably means that countries have to decide on what grounds and who they allow in. This does not run counter to the principle of freedom, such as banning dreadlocks. The countries decide how they appoint their membership. If we did not do this at all, it would mean that a larger neighbouring country could send in any number of people who would immediately have the right to vote, because we have to accept them all if we want to treat them equally. And we want to treat them equally. Wherever our sovereignty lies, it is evident. Immigration can be regulated. Immigration doesn't have to be regulated if we like any number of people coming here. If most people in Estonia like it, let's not regulate. These are both legitimate positions. Since these are both legitimate positions and there is once again no expert response, it should be given to the people to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U149	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U150	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! It saddens me that during the last year-and-a-half, a phenomenon such as intimidation of the Estonian people has appeared in the speeches of Estonian politicians and in the political agenda of Estonia. I don't know exactly what the personal motives of people who do this are, some maybe personal welfare, some, I'm sorry, limited, stupidity or whatever. Dear waitress, you are a highly educated person, why are you scaring the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U151	Thank you. Good questioner, I'm so sorry if my report scared you! I thought I was pretty rational. I am certainly not scaring the Estonian people. On the contrary, I want to give the Estonian people the opportunity to decide whether or not refugee policy should be changed. Giving decision-making power to the people is no intimidation. If it scares anyone, then perhaps the Estonian elite, who sees that if the people can decide, then maybe their current choices will be voted down. I'm scaring the Elit, and I think it's right, because you have to scare the stronger ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U152	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U153	Good manager and waitress! I have here the opinion of the Estonian Human Rights Centre and Estonian Refugee Council on these two drafts. It has been explicitly said here that according to European Union law, Estonia has no right to impose any limit values for asylum seekers, nor to oppose the NAP (which concerns the next draft). What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U154	I think they're wrong. They have not understood the principle of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U155	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you. The Commission's waitress is Mart Nutt. Please, waitress of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U156	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 12 September, the Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at a regular meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, within the framework of that meeting, the representative of the initiators, Oudekki Loone, presented this draft. This was followed by a discussion that was quite long and fruitful. I will present here some of the key questions that emerged in the discussion. First of all, Commissioner Mart Nutt (i.e. I) stated that the people may think that Estonia should set a cap on the number of beneficiaries of international protection. This is one possible result of the referendum. If, then, the Government of the Republic sets a ceiling for the year, for example, 200 people taken from the lamp per year, but during the year there is a civil war in Belarus, for example, and there are 10,000 people on the Estonian border who apply for asylum in Estonia, what should Estonia do in this case? Oudekki Loone replied that if a person applies for asylum, Estonia would not have to satisfy it. In this case, cooperation with the institutions of the global organisation of asylum would be a general solution, there would probably be camps for asylum seekers along the Estonian border, and nothing else could be done under these circumstances. Estonia should contribute to bringing the crisis to an end as soon as possible. It should also be ensured that applicants for asylum are sent to countries willing to receive asylum seekers. Mart Nutt, Member of the Commission, considered that such a ceiling would be in breach of the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees. President Kalle Laanet said that according to current law, the Government of the Republic will submit to the Commission for European Union Affairs the limit of beneficiaries of international protection under the redistributive programme, and the European Union Affairs Commission will confirm this. Oudekki Loone stated that, according to the current procedure, the limit number will not be set for the year, but will be established every time it becomes necessary, but the draft will be based on the fact that the establishment of the limit number will depend on the decision of Parliament and the nation will influence the determination of the limit number in the future through which Parliament it will elect. I would like to make it clear, outside the protocol, that this mechanism, which we are talking about here, concerns migrants and displaced persons, but does not concern people who can come to Estonia's borders and apply for asylum there. However, both are included in the draft. So here there are two problems connected. Member of the Commission Jüri Adams asked whether, according to the drafters' understanding, the terms'refugee' and'refugee' used in the draft explanatory memorandum were synonymous or not. The Oudekki Loone replied that he was rather inspired by the fact that'refugee' and'refugee' are synonymous. This has been discussed, and it has sometimes been found that it is the fugitive who is fleeing, and it is the refugee who has been granted asylum. Sometimes it is said that a refugee is a refugee within the meaning of the Convention on the Status of Refugees. In general, however, if these two concepts are distinguished, they must be shown, but if this is not shown, these words can be used as synonyms. Jüri Adams noted that refugees must be accepted regardless of the maximum number of beneficiaries of international protection. He asked whether the drafters wanted Estonia to have two ceilings, one for immigrants and the other for refugees. Oudekki Loone replied that immigrants and refugees are two completely different categories and that moral responsibility for them is different. Different restrictions therefore need to be imposed. However, Estonia's ability to help refugees is limited and this is a fair signal for refugees so that people know how many Estonia can help and whether it makes sense to come to Estonia or not. Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Commission, explained that at the moment, with the approval of the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu, it is planned to place 550 beneficiaries of international protection in Estonia within the framework of the European Union Redistribution Programme. Today, 47 war refugees have come here, and in the last 15 years, 271 have been beneficiaries of international protection. Oudekki Loone felt that it was not a question of how many beneficiaries of international protection there are, but rather a question of legitimacy. As this issue has now arisen in society, the voters of all political parties want to have a say in it, and they must be given the opportunity to do so. Kalle Laanet also asked whether the representative of the drafters felt that the legislation so far had not been legitimate. Oudekki Loone replied that he felt that this was problematic, as members of the Riigikogu are justified in doing the things they have promised in the elections. Member of the Commission Mikhail Stalnukhin noted that the draft concerns the issue of immigration, which has arisen in several Member States of the European Union because of those who come from the Middle East and North Africa, not because of those who come from Russia or Belarus. Of course, when we look at the bill, there is no distinction in the bill. Member of the Commission, Lauri Luik, asked whether the drafter had in mind the limit of the number of beneficiaries of international protection, but not the immigration limit. Oudekki Loone replied that they refer only to the limit of beneficiaries of international protection, not to the immigration limit. Lauri Luik asked if the drafters knew how much it would cost to organise a referendum in Estonia. It is not included in the explanatory memorandum. The Commission asked for an assessment of the cost of one referendum, and the answer was that it was essentially in the same order of magnitude as the cost of the elections, the order of magnitude being EUR 2 million. Mr Loone replied that the draft explanatory memorandum did not indeed mention the cost of the referendum. The answer, I think, is that the Riigikogu just got it. President Kalle Laanet noted that in 2015 the Committee on Constitutional Affairs launched a debate on refugee policy orientations within the framework of the draft 81. The draft law amending the law granting international protection to a foreigner and related other laws was also adopted by the Riigikogu as a law. It cannot therefore be said that there has been no consensus on these issues. Member of the Commission Kalle Muuli asked that if, so far, Estonia has been able to establish an immigration limit without asking the opinion of the people, why should it be asked now? Couldn't the Riigikogu adopt a law that requires the Government of the Republic to set a ceiling on the number of beneficiaries of international protection each year? Why cannot this matter be resolved through Parliament? Oudekki Loone replied that if the people say that it is not necessary to set the annual limit for beneficiaries of international protection, then the policy that is currently in force is that the limit is determined according to the situation in the world. However, there should be no fear of asking for the opinion of the people, and Parliament must implement what the people have foreseen. The way in which members of the community are taken is a very important strategic issue, and it must be decided in advance for a very long time, it should not be very easy to change. Mart Nutt, Member of the Commission, felt that if a referendum received no response, it could be interpreted as meaning that the annual ceiling on the number of beneficiaries of international protection could not be set, but could also be interpreted as meaning that the limit could not be set at all. However, the government and the Riigikogu should have more free hands on this issue. However, if the answer is yes, then there is a possibility that Estonia will no longer be able to comply with the Geneva Convention. In order to clarify this, Mart Nutt proposed to seek the opinion of legal experts. I also recall that according to the Estonian Constitution, the results of the referendum are compulsory. The situation in Estonia is here, say, not quite exceptional, but in most countries the results of the referendum are indicative. If the outcome of the referendum were indicative and Estonia could not comply with it because of its membership of the Geneva Convention, nothing would happen. However, if there is a situation where the outcome of the referendum is compulsory and Estonia is obliged to comply with the Convention, but as a result of the referendum, it cannot do so again, then the country is in a deadlock. Then, in principle, Estonia should initiate the denunciation of the Geneva Convention. Jüri Adams stated that he felt that it would be necessary to examine the cost of a referendum in the national electoral service or the Ministry of Finance. That's what's been done. Expert advice has also been received on this draft. Mr Ernits has already introduced one; this opinion is prepared by the Estonian Human Rights Centre and Estonian Refugee Council. There is still an expert opinion of UNHCR, the United Nations Refugee Agency, which in essence coincides with it. An expert opinion has also come from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. I will briefly present the views that are in these documents, in general they coincide. The right of a refugee to stay in Estonia is derived from the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol. The Republic of Estonia acceded to the Convention on the Status of Refugees and its Protocol in 1997. According to Article 32 of the Convention, no person eligible for refugee status may be expelled unless the presence of the refugee in the country endangers the security or public order of the country. One of the most binding principles of international law is the non-refoUlement principle: a person may not be expelled or returned to a country where he or she may fall victim to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment. This is due to several international conventions binding on Estonia: Article 3 (1) of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Article 7 of the United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 33.1 of the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment and Punishment. This principle is one of the cornerstones of international law and applies not only to refugees but also to beneficiaries of subsidiary protection. The Non-Refoulement principle is absolute in nature and has been recognised by all countries that respect human rights. A person shall be recognised by the State as a beneficiary of international protection if he or she fulfils the requirements for such protection. Requirements for the recognition of refugee status or subsidiary protection status have been agreed internationally and set out in international law, Union law and national law. In particular, because of the non-refoUlement principle, the Republic of Estonia cannot determine the number of beneficiaries of international protection, as this would constitute a breach of the commitments made under the above conventions, and would also constitute a serious breach of European Union law and the Estonian Constitution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs took procedural decisions. President Kalle Laanet proposed sending a draft of 229 to first reading by 22 September 2016 with a proposal to reject it. There were 6 Commission members in favour and 5 against, with no abstentions. By Kalle Laane, Mart Nutt, Andres Anvelt, Kalle Muuli, Lauri Luik and Andre Sepp, Anneli Ott, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Ernits, Jaak Madison and Jüri Adams were opposed. The chairman of the committee proposed that Mart Nutt be appointed rapporteur for the draft. Here I am. All members of the Commission were in favour of this proposal. The Commission's proposal is to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U157	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U158	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear waitress, However, I would like to stress that the Human Rights Centre and refugee assistance are not expert organisations, but interest groups who are making a great deal of money on the fact that we are experiencing a refugee crisis. I do not understand this expenditure talk, because two million referendums are many times less than we are paying for immigrants placed here from the state budget this year alone. But I want to understand what the Commission's vision is. I understand this debate and the Commission's decision in this way that, in the opinion of the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the members of the current government coalition, there is no limit to receiving refugees. As many as there are in the world, and as far as they reach our borders, we must help them all, because the Geneva Convention obliges us to do so and, if we do not agree, we must abandon the Geneva Convention. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U159	If you read the Geneva Convention, you understand correctly. However, the issue of the European migration crisis is that Europe is very generous in granting refugee status. There's actually a problem here. I am also quite sure that not all those who come to Europe are refugees from their status. I think this is the way to resolve this issue. But now a few more points. However, as far as expertise is concerned, I dare say that the UNHCR, or UNHCR, is probably the most competent unit to interpret the Geneva Convention. If you are not satisfied with this interpretation, you can always go to an international court, but generally no one doubts their expertise. The second question is the two million. It's not like we made it up. The answer came from the election department. The cost of organising a referendum is comparable to the cost of organising any general election. This order of magnitude is at least EUR 2 million and includes national departments, their teams, all voting methods. That's the smartest answer I can give.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U160	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U161	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! I remember very well how you yourself emphasised in the committee session that it was necessary to order expert analysis and a legal assessment of how this would all be compatible with international agreements. The only assessment I have received from our internal information system EMS is the assessment of the Estonian Human Rights Centre and Estonian Refugee Assistance. I haven't read any other estimates so far. Do you hold the two organisations with sufficient abstentions to make an objective assessment of this issue? Do you not consider it necessary that the legal analysis be drawn up by independent lawyers or, for example, by the Chancellor of Justice? Are you certain of the independence of these two organisations? In fact, they manage themselves primarily by housing and helping refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U162	Thank you. As regards the legal analysis of the Geneva Convention in particular, I share the opinion expressed there. I didn't touch on any other questions in my report. If you have not received the letter from the High Commissioner for Refugees, I have it here and you will certainly be able to get it from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Its content is generally very much in line with the expertise of the two organisations that you have already heard. In addition, I have at my disposal the position of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. I can quote briefly: '... it can be said that putting the proposed questions to a referendum would be contrary to European Union law and to the international commitments made by Estonia, and there could also be a contradiction with § 106 (1) of the PS and § 2 of the PSTS. ' If you do not consider the competence of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu sufficient on this issue, please contact the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. I don't have any better sources to take. As far as the Chancellor of Justice is concerned, I raised the question that it would also be good to get the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. Unfortunately, the Chancellor of Justice in general does not give an opinion on legislation that has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U163	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U164	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! In your report, you quoted for a very long time a member of the Commission, someone named Mart Nutti. This Member of the Commission had questioned the legal competence of this issue, and for the different options, he pointed out a number of possibilities for interpretation. That Member of the Commission also requested a new legal analysis. Did Commissioner Mart Nutt also say whether a referendum could be held on this issue and whether the position of the question in the current draft is wrong? Or is it basically impossible to hold a referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U165	No, it is possible to hold a referendum in principle, because according to the Constitution, the Riigikogu may decide to hold a referendum. However, if the Riigikogu organises a referendum whose answer cannot be realised, the Riigikogu behaves irresponsibly vis-à-vis its state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U166	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I'll take it from where I finished first. As I understand it, under European Union law and § 106 (1) of the Constitution, we do not have any right to set a limit for asylum seekers and refuse to comply with the relocation obligation (this last one concerns the next draft that we are going to discuss). This means that all of this is pointless, that we must keep our mouths shut and continue to serve and hope that there will be too many refugees in Europe!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U168	As regards how the limit of this protection is and who can be expelled, no country actually grants refugee status to everyone during the year, probably not even to all those who are entitled to it. The procedure and control are relatively long. Really, we have this limit. I think it is hypocritical to say that we should not say this. Of course you should, and I think you can. Who we're sending out somewhere, that's another question. If we do not grant refugee status, what will we do with this person, where can we send him, and what will we do with him if we do not risk sending him somewhere where there is a direct war? This is a separate problem that has to be resolved anyway, even under the current regime, it has to be resolved anyway. In general, in this sense, it is easy for Estonia that most people who ask us for international protection have come here from some third, safe country. We have this practical issue less acute, but, of course, as a legislator, we must consider this theoretical issue, which at the moment we accept that we have camps in the country, where there are people to whom we cannot grant refugee status and who we cannot send out. Such a future may be ahead of us, but it can also wait for us in the current policy, only that the current policy is hypocritical: we do not signal people that they can be expected to do so. I think we should be honest with people who are already in trouble, and on the other hand, people who want to take advantage of the system must be given a strong signal that we will not allow it. There's fear that if the people give a guide, maybe the government doesn't have a free hand in politics. Well, the people are giving directions. The people also give direction in the elections. For example, when people say that they do not want a nuclear power plant, it is not possible to build a nuclear power plant in a very long time to produce energy. That's it. The people's will is what limits us. Without it, democracy would not be possible; without it, we would immediately step up to electoral authoritarianism. Then we'd say that power can do anything, and let's not give the people anything that ties the hand of power. Do I actually hear such opinions in this Chamber that we must not allow the people to tell us what we should do here? Who exactly are we? The cost of democracy is the same. We all know that democracy costs, but it is well spent money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U169	There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu, the proposal of the commission is to reject the draft 229 at first reading. That is what we need to vote on. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U170	Thank you. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U171	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-22_U172	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the leading committee 229 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 47 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the commission's proposal and 30 against, with 2 abstentions. Draft 229 has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, may I have your attention for a moment? The co-rapporteur of the 261 initiators and the lead committee agrees, and as chairman, I agree with them that, in the interests of better organisation of the work of this House, I will take a break of 5 minutes and 17 seconds. I'll see you Saturday! Closure of the sitting at 12.55 p.m.
