ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 7th plenary session. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U2	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Equal Treatment Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law on the ratification of the 2014 Protocol to the Forced Labour Convention. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the VAT Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U3	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U4	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! I have the honour to question the Minister of Public Administration, Arto Asa, on behalf of eight members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The inquiry is motivated by a large generational plan published in the Postimees newspaper on 4 March, which looks at the division of all functions and services in connection with the new state reform. In this vast sense, it has been argued that 30 state museums, which work excellently and are internationally well-known and well-known, are now under the eye of heads. Our questions concern the state museums and the interference of the Ministry of Finance with the so-called organization of museums under the administration of the Ministry of Culture. As we know, since 2012, there has already been an excellent reform of the organisation of museums. Is the Ministry of Finance planning new analyses now? Where do they start, and why do we need them again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U5	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We remember that in 2009, the government, under the leadership of Andrus Ansip, made very many cuts in both the basic budget and the supplementary budgets. This, of course, made many people's livelihood worse. One of these cuts affected people who had to face funerals. In particular, the death grant for private persons was stopped. At that time, the Reform Party, the IRL and the Greens pressed the approval button. The Centre Party Group wants to bring this support back from next year, because very many people have approached us with this concern and this is one of the key issues in the meetings with the people. The universal funeral allowance was paid in Estonia even when the amount of our state budget was 262 million euros. It was 1993. It is extremely embarrassing that, now that our national budget is close to EUR 9 billion, we are not paying this support. Yes, indeed, the cut was made in its time with a promise to restore this support after difficult times, but we have not done so. The previous government did make a small one just before the election, I'd say, a diversion. It was said that funeral support was restored, but it was actually paid only to those receiving income support. Last year, 467 people received funeral allowance, while 15,400 people died. The average funeral, however, is almost too much for even the most ordinary people. That's how we hand over this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U7	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speaker! Two weeks ago, there was a big talk of Stalinism on the remote. Only a few days earlier, Jürgen Ligi received an inquiry on behalf of Conservative People's Party ambassadors regarding foreign students. This inquiry was sent back by the speaker because he had decided not to forward it. This is already an inquiry into the Fifth Opposition Conservative People's Party, which the Speaker will not pass on to the Minister. In this context, I would like to point out that in the European cultural space and in Estonia it is common for the opposition to be able to make inquiries to ministers. It is not up to the speaker to decide, on the basis of his discretion, whether or not he communicates a certain questioning. Now, that's Stalinism or putinism, if you like. I would like to remind you that in a few weeks' time, we will have elections to the Riigikogu's board of directors. Then I suggest that all the ambassadors consider whether we should still choose a speaker who will chair the sittings, or whether we will settle for a speaker who will censor the opposition. I'm going to re-negotiate the inquiry to Minister Ligi. And we don't want a written answer, we want an oral answer. We want a minister in this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U9	Now, I've adopted five drafts and two questions. In deciding on both drafts and enquiries, the Management Board is obliged to comply with the requirements laid down in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. We will forward the inquiry to the Minister when the inquiry meets the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Thank you. Now for presence control. There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15. Now, then, the adoption of the agenda, preceded by a number of clarifications. Please follow closely! On 14 March, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, in agreement with the authors of the inquiry, will reply to the planned inquiry 130 on unheated apartment buildings for the first item on the agenda. I assume everyone agrees with that. Question 131, scheduled for today's eighth item, is rejected by Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister for Education and Science, because it was withdrawn by the heirs. This item is therefore automatically excluded from the agenda. In agreement with the authors of the inquiry, the Minister of Business Liisa Oviir has proposed to add a new last item to today's agenda, which is the request for information on the Estonian tourism sector submitted on 16 February. This inquiry shall be numbered 157. The following proposals on the draft are made: The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to remove the third item on the agenda of this week, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Public Transport 159. The National Defence Committee has proposed to raise the third item on the agenda of the Wednesday session, namely the second reading of the draft Act amending § 34 of the National Defence Act, the last, eighth item of the Wednesday session. With these improvements, the honourable Riigikogu... Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U10	Thank you, Mr President. You have just said that, on Tuesday, there will be no debate on Bill 159. We still have the same draft on the agenda on Thursday, and there is no comment here that should the second reading be closed. It's just on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U11	It is also excluded from the Thursday agenda, because the committee's proposal for a third reading had to be made to the Riigikogu Board when the second one is closed. If the second reading is cancelled on Tuesday, the second reading will not be stopped and the Thursday debate will not be stopped. Thank you for that clarification. So I would also like to take into account the deletion of the first item on the Thursday agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, along with these improvements, I will vote on the agenda of the 7th working week of the III plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, 3 against, 1 abstention. The agenda for the seventh working week is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U12	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's go to the approved agenda. First of all, we have an inquiry on our agenda by members of the Riigikogu Heimar Lenk, Marika Tuus-Laul, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Rein Ratas, Martin Repinski, Mailis Reps, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Anneli Ott, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Peeter Ernits and Valeri Korb. On behalf of the heirs, Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The names that the honourable speaker has just read are 16 in total. That's how many people have signed this inquiry. This is a serious question to Mr Ossinovski, our Minister for Health and Labour. I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, our medical care levels are going down a lot. This is particularly noted in remote areas from Tallinn. I represent Valga, Võru and Põlva County. One could say that the future of the three hospitals, Valga, Võru and Põlva, is at issue. There is a shortage of doctors, there are questions about the quality of treatment and the persistence of hospitals at all, not all of which have yet been resolved. Võru Hospital has gone under the administration of the University of Tartu Hospital, but there are many problems. In particular, this is an inquiry into the Family Medicine Centre of Varstu and Cirgulina. Both of them, two large and good family doctor centers, were shut down from January 1st. People were just sent home letters saying you no longer have a family doctor, and do what you want. There was a major scandal in the local media, people expressed their opinions, but no one received any answers. And now the people of these two places have to go to Võru or Valka in Võru County and Tsirgulina in Valgamaa. These people may need to go to a doctor for headaches or toothaches, or have some injections or tablets taken to drive so far from home. The problem is very serious, people are hurt that they are not respected and do not receive basic medical care in their home country. All these people in Valga and Võrumaa have paid taxes for their lifetime and are entitled to European-level medical care, but it is not. That's what we're looking for answers from Evgeny Ossinovski. There are a number of questions here that I am not going to read, but the content of the question is why family doctor's posts are being closed and who in the end is in charge of the one in Estonia where to open a medical station and where to close it. The county used to deal with this, and now this right has been taken away from the county. Now there is central leadership coming from Tallinn, but it does not seem to justify itself. There are a lot of questions. The people are really hurt. We now have very negative opinions about our medicine in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U14	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! Honourable speaker! I would not focus on the general debate on whether or not the quality of health care is going down in Estonia. However, I recommend that you look at the annual survey summary published only a few weeks ago. Indeed, we have systematically studied people's attitudes and attitudes towards Estonian medical care. I am pleased to note that the vast majority of Estonian people consider the quality of health care services in Estonia to be good. It is true that we have certain concerns about the availability of specialist medical care, i.e. queues, but I am talking about this in the context of today's third inquiry, so that is not what I am focusing on here. Perhaps only so much that according to the survey, it is the people of rural areas who are more satisfied with the quality of health care than the inhabitants of the capital. So maybe it's not as black and white as the previous speaker said. But now to the questions. Indeed, these relate to two family doctors, namely the Varstu, and the list of Tõlliste and Puffy. I will answer eight questions that the heirs have asked me. The first question: "Why was the family doctor's appointment closed in the areas of Cirguline and Varstu? What was the reason? " First of all, I assure you that both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Department have been communicating with local communities in the process of restructuring them. In addition to the Health Board, the Ministry of Social Affairs has also been in close contact with Varstu rural municipality elder, and questions have also been discussed with the representatives of the residents of the municipality. We have given the people of the municipality feedback on their willingness to meet to discuss possible steps in providing general medical care to the residents of Varstu municipality. In cooperation with the Health Board, we have been negotiating with Sõmerpalu's family doctor who has expressed his willingness to take up the list of Varstu's own services. If this succeeds, the secondary place of the family doctor is also the municipality of Varstu. Sõmerpalu's family doctor has confirmed to the Health Board that he will be attending the Family Medicine Centre in Varstu on 1 April. The family doctor himself starts to accept once a week, and the rest of the days there is a family nurse at the family doctor's centre. Neither the Ministry of Social Affairs nor the Health Board have received complaints from residents of Õru and Tõlliste municipality about adding lists. Now the reasons. The Health Board recently decided to add these lists of family doctors to the surrounding list, as these were very small lists. As of 1 December 2015, there were 626 persons on the list of the municipality of Varstu and 595 persons on the list of the rural municipality of Tõlliste and Õru. The average list in Estonia included 1,700 people at the beginning of 2015 and the list of Varstu parishes and Tõlliste and Õru parishes was below the minimum size specified in subsection 41 (1) of the Health Services Organisation Act, which is 1200 persons. The minimum denomination is linked to two things. Firstly, the sustainability of funding and the adequacy of money, which is taken into account per patient, and secondly, the possibility of providing a high-quality service, as both are clearly linked to the size of the list. In order to ensure minimum standards for the provision of medical care, there is a need for expenditure and, in particular, in the case of a list of at least 1200 persons, this can be done. In the case of small lists, there is insufficient financial coverage to ensure that the service is properly provided, which is why the list is not economically sustainable. The issue is not that the country has money problems. We are ready to finance these lists. The problem is that no family doctor wants to serve such small lists. This is also the case in Varstu, where there are proper premises, but it has not been possible to find a family doctor for a long time, because no doctor has been interested in it. Local people were served by temporary substitutes who were not always able to provide sufficient services, and there were problems of availability and quality in access to general medical care. Quality problems were quite serious lately. These are fixed by the legislation on the supervision procedure of the Health Board and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, which, unfortunately, cannot be disclosed here. This is information recognised for internal use because it contains, inter alia, sensitive personal data. Given Estonia's population projections, keeping such small lists in perspective is not sustainable precisely because it is very difficult to find family doctors in these places. This is why the Health Board, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs, has moved in the direction of merging the lists. The aim is to ensure access to healthcare at the primary level for all residents in larger list areas. The second question: "Why was there no prior consultation with local residents, patients and local authorities? " As mentioned, in connection with the addition of the family medical records of Varstu municipality to the list of Mõniste rural municipality, the Health Board actively communicated with Varstu rural municipality elder, who was aware from the beginning of the reasons for the decision of the Health Board and who has been involved at all stages. The Ministry of Social Affairs has also been in contact with both rural municipality and rural municipality residents. The Health Board found out about adding the list of service areas of Tõlliste-Õru to the Valga list to the local people in October 2015. Information about the reception times and location of the new family doctor was forwarded by the Health Board to Varstu Municipality Government in November 2015 and to the municipalities of Tõlliste and Õru in December 2015. The third question: 'Administrative reform is intended to bring services and the country closer to the local population. The Ministry you run will act in the opposite direction and take the services farther away from the local people. Why is that? ' First of all, it's not like that. On the contrary, with various changes in health management, we have set the goal precisely to ensure a high-quality service for every resident of Estonia, wherever he or she lives. As has been said, our greatest concern is the availability of family doctors in the long term. At present, the average age of family doctors is 55 years old and is significantly higher outside major centres. Especially in small places, there have been long-standing problems with the collection of lists, and these problems are getting worse. Temporary replacements, whom the Health Board has bravely been able to find in cooperation with family doctors on different lists, are certainly not a long-term and most sensible solution. However, we expect family doctors to continue to serve their list of residents, to keep in touch with them, to advise them, etc. This, of course, can best be done by a family doctor who is only responsible for his list of patients. The main problem, therefore, is precisely the lack of family doctors outside county centres. There is nothing to do, young doctors want to work in larger centres where there are several doctors together where they can work as a team. It's much more complicated in small places. Secondly, of course, there is no overcoming or overcoming population projections. For example, it follows from the forecast that the population of both Võru and Varstu municipality will decrease by another quarter by 2030. In order to ensure optimal, accessible and high-quality general medical care in all areas of Estonia, the Ministry of Social Affairs will direct 85 million euros, which together with its own funding will make just over 110 million euros, namely health centres, or a first-level measure. Our desire is to create modern and significantly stronger centres for general medical care with a wider range of services, so that people can receive general medical care anywhere in Estonia. Question 4: "Do you think that the decision taken a few years ago that family medicine is no longer being dealt with at county level and that the Health Board is responsible for this? ' According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, in difficult circumstances, the Health Board has also managed to ensure the availability of standardised general medical care, including considering that the average age of our family doctors is 55 years old, as stated. We agree that good cooperation between the Health Board, local authorities and local communities will, of course, play an important role in ensuring access to general medical care. It is precisely in cooperation that anything can be done, and this cooperation has been good in merging these two lists. When closing and merging lists, the Health Board shall take into account the completeness and sustainability of the lists, the problems of access to medical care and the number of inhabitants in the regions concerned, geographical location and also the organisation of public transport. In the case of these decisions, the Health Board accompanied companies through which general medical care was provided by family doctors in the municipalities of Tõlliste and Õru and in the municipality of Varstu. There is no reason to argue that family doctors at the level of the municipality were not dealt with, as Varstu was a company providing general medical care, which belonged to the municipality itself. It has also been difficult for the municipality to obtain a family doctor on the spot as owner of the company, and the last temporary replacement was found with the help of the Health Board. Question 5: 'The newspaper Võrumaa Official Journal wrote the following about the work of the Health Board: 'The Health Board should analyse the situation more closely. In the capital, it is easy to merge and separate, local conditions and people without knowing. ' Do you agree with this criticism? ' I don't agree. Given the difficult circumstances and the availability of family doctors, I believe that the Health Board has acted responsibly and assessed all the facts by involving the parties. The decision takes into account the geographical location of general medical care sites, the distance between sites and the public transport connection. The distance between the site of Varstu rural municipality and the site of Mõniste rural municipality is six kilometres. The reasonable public transport connection resulting from the current Code is guaranteed. Transport is also ensured between the existing premises of Tõlliste and Õru rural municipality and the new family doctor's office in Valga city. I would also point out that the fulfillment of the lists of Varstu and Tõlliste and Õru rural municipalities was very different, as was the number of inhabitants in these municipalities. The number of residents in Varstu municipality was 1173, the list included 625 persons. The number of inhabitants in the rural municipality of Tõlliste was 1616 and 472, so that the total number of people was almost 2,000, while the number of persons was 595. Thus, half of the people living in the service area of Varstu and two thirds of the people living in the service area of Tõlliste and Võru did not visit the family doctor but were expected to visit the larger centre. Question 6: 'The population of the municipality of Varstu is amazed that the Health Board does not consider the continuation of the family doctor centre to be sustainable in the spacious spaces that have just been properly repaired by the municipality. What's with the attitude? 'The sustainability of the designation is not related to the premises of the site and their condition. Sustainability is primarily linked to the fulfillment of the list and, of course, to the existence of a family doctor. As of December 15, 2015, there were 625 persons and the list has decreased year by year. Nor did the Varstu people have family doctors for years, but temporary replacements. This means that no doctor qualified as a family doctor was prepared to serve such a small list. In view of the number of people living in the service area and the number of persons on the list, it can be seen that more than half of the residents of Varstu rural municipality were on the list of other family doctors, despite the renovation of the premises of the medical station in Varstu village. Question 7: "What do you say to the people of Tõlliste and Varstu? " A new family doctor has been assigned to people in family doctors in both areas, who is at a reasonable distance from the old family doctor's place of business. As has been said, the possibility is currently being discussed that Sõmerpalu family doctor will serve the residents of Varstu municipality and take a reception on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U16	Thank you, Minister. Inquiries have questions, so anything that was left alive and not mentioned can be added later. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You said several times that the average age of a family doctor is 55 years and even higher than in large centres. Unfortunately, becoming a family doctor is not very popular among medical students either. That's where my question comes from. There is a risk that there will be more lists without a family doctor. What can be done to make the family doctor's profession more popular? You have noted the strong centres of general medical care, but I also know that many are afraid of economic risk and quite a bit of bureaucracy. What are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U18	The diagnosis itself is correct. It is true that the family doctor's residency has been one of the most subdued for years, so it is not the most popular choice among medical students. Well, the solutions are multi-layered. I have heard that sometimes people teach medical science to direct students more towards such glamorous medical professions. The family doctor is said to be such a simple doctor, although it is not considered prestigious. I hope that's not true. As an example of a parallel with teachers, teacher training has managed to break it, and a classroom teacher is one of the most popular teaching positions to be studied. I think that since the family doctor is the backbone of the Estonian health care system, this profession could be much more prestigious. The other side is indeed linked to health care arrangements. I would argue that, with larger lists and rational management, the family doctor is able to achieve a decent workload and organisation, as well as to manage economically quite successfully. There are quite a few family doctors in Estonia who have done this. I think that the public financing model itself allows this. At the same time, I am referring to two problems. One problem is working alone. In the future, the creation of health centres could have a positive effect. Family doctors are concentrated in larger teams so that the doctor is not alone in his work. I'm not a medic, but I think it's believable what the doctors are talking about, so they want to consult their colleagues on one issue or another and feel like they're working on a team. Making decisions alone can be psychologically beautiful. The main logic of setting up health centres is that doctors work in larger teams, provide more services and also support each other. Another concern that has so far prevented young family doctors from working has been that free lists have been created by a beautiful accident. The current arrangement is that once a family doctor has received a list, he will keep it as long as he wants. At one point, he may opt out of the list by retiring or simply changing jobs. In exceptional cases, when very serious quality problems occur, it is possible to remove a list from a family doctor, but usually a young person who goes to study as a family doctor does not know at all what list he could start working for. This depends on when an existing doctor releases one list or another. In order to address this problem, we will, in cooperation with family doctors, launch a so-called family doctor incubation scheme or model, according to which a young family doctor who is about to complete his studies or has already completed his/her studies will go to work alongside some of the active family doctors, and then an older colleague will gradually hand his/her list over to the young doctor. This will give rise to confidence that it is really possible to obtain a list. I hope that this will increase the popularity of the family doctor's profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U19	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U20	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I think the biggest misses in this government are that he doesn't feel the differences. You have already begun to feel the differences in the economy in order to use oil shale, you have created special arrangements and the price of electricity is likely to develop in a differentiated way. But I ask you, Minister, how do you imagine family doctor centers in Harjumaa or Võrumaa and Valgamaa to operate under the same rules? If you close a family doctor center in a small area, it is clear that people will leave. These things are connected. Is it not possible to come up with differentiated funding so that medical care is also available to rural people and maybe some retired family doctor can still be delivered on the ground with the support of the municipality and keep the family doctor centre alive? Why don't you try to take account of the differences and finance them accordingly? I think you understand what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U21	First of all, of your claim that the tightening of one or another public service in one municipality will result in people leaving the area. Several studies, including those carried out by Praxis, show that this trend is rather different. Namely, jobs will be lost first, then people will go away, and when people are few, public services will be lost. I think we all understand that this is how it happens. I am not going to talk about wider regional policy measures that could change or soften the situation here. It is certainly important for us to have access to general medical care for every person, and that is what we have worked for. In some places, this has also meant that we have merged the lists to give the family doctor enough weight. As far as the specificities of funding are concerned, they exist in substance. The Health Insurance Fund finances the same on a bounty basis, but when we think about how much the family doctor pays for real estate in Tallinn and how much he pays in Varstuse, the tax is very different. This is where municipalities can and have put their shoulders on them. For example, there is a local government company that has maintained these premises. In principle, in one combination or another, local governments have the opportunity to ensure family doctors' visits on the spot. The Agency has taken a positive and flexible approach to these steps when the quality of work has been good. But as we know, the Varsis has been tightened one way and the other way around, no family doctor has not been found who would like to take this list. From our point of view, it is important that the Varstu residents are on a single list and that their health is constantly monitored. If this has not been ensured on the ground, we have been looking for other options. As I said, it is now likely that Sõmerpalu family doctor will take over the service of the residents of Varstu municipality from 1 April. An on-site reception shall also be ensured. If we take the establishment of health centres, this measure covers over 100 municipalities, according to the above-mentioned study, where we have also foreseen the creation of secondary sites. A proper family doctor's centre is located in a county centre or larger city, but we have also foreseen the use of European money in smaller places so that general medical care can be obtained as close to home as possible. Of course, it is not reasonable or possible to set up a family doctor's centre every mile away.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U22	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U23	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, If we look a little wider, things are getting worse and worse in healthcare. Human ownership is constantly increasing, with fewer new medicines being registered. We are one of the last in this regard in Europe. The number of treatment cases is decreasing, the availability of treatment in the general hospital of the place of residence is decreasing. Family doctor stations are closed, sequestration is taking place, major hospitals are swallowing smaller ones, etc. And all of this in a situation where the average number of healthy years of life has decreased for a few years in a row for both women and men. How have you been trying to protect patients as a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U24	Your question doesn't fit well within this question. We also have another question on the agenda, where this issue would be much better suited. There were a number of false statements on your question that I would like to refute, but it is more sensible to do so in the debate on the next question, where there are also questions about this issue. But the health insurance budget has increased, the number of treatment cases remains the same, has not decreased. In healthcare, large small people are not swallowed up, but cooperate in providing health services on the ground. I say that the quality of health care in Estonia has actually improved. The availability, true, is a problem, but especially in Tallinn and Tartu, in smaller places the stories are much better. But, of course, it is clear that, due to two changes, first of all, the fact that we have an increasingly low working age population and, secondly, that the population is in the circle within Estonia, the health care system must also change. The necessary adjustment is two-way. First, general hospitals must provide specialist medical care in cooperation with higher-level hospitals. As a result, networking has also been launched, as it cannot be managed on its own. We have a problem with the average age of family doctors, but so is the problem with the average age of specialized doctors in the counties. And the other direction is to change the healthcare financing system, which we will discuss in greater detail when discussing the next item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U25	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U26	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I wonder how superficial you can give me answers. Here's my specific question. You're saying that there in Varstu municipality in Võrumaa, Sõmerpalu's doctor may be ready to receive people. Tell me, please, Mr. Minister, such a thing. You knew in October that from January 1st, the Sleeve's doctor's office would be closed. So why didn't the Health Board, which is under your authority, immediately start looking for a doctor at Sõmerpalus? Why are you looking when it comes to the press and Parliament? Why haven't you been working for the last five months? You knew you'd shut it down, you saw the list was small. Now you've just taken care of it and you're saying maybe that doctor will be there. What does "maybe" mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U27	We've worked before. The smallness of the name was not the most decisive factor in Varstu. The most decisive factor was what I was referring to. I will read it again: this list has revealed problems with the quality of healthcare. The problems are fixed in the acts of the Health Board and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund's supervisory procedure, which, unfortunately, cannot be disclosed because they contain sensitive personal data. So, unfortunately, I can't explain everything to you from this Parliament's speaking board, but the problems were a little different from those of healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U28	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In answering one earlier question, you said that a new health centre setting-up measure in primary care was about to take place. There will be 85 million euros plus own contribution. You have pointed out that this is a positive programme, as it will enable cooperation to be promoted. I'm sure it's very good, but this program may have a small negative side. In fact, the place of receiving medical care may begin to move away from people. Last week we met health care providers in Valga who said that Valga Hospital had already applied for a health centre. This means, for example, that in Taheva, for example, the health station is closed, or family doctors move to the city. How can a person get the service comfortably? Who should drive, a doctor or a person in need?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U30	Thank you. The local circumstances are quite different, so I can't comment on the Taheva and Valga case like that on the run. We certainly want family doctors to take larger, more sustainable lists, work together in larger teams. This does not preclude, for example, the family doctor of the health centre in Valga, whose list will include residents of Õru and Tõlliste rural municipality, also makes a reception in Tõllis or somewhere else. Our model doesn't rule that out in any way. It is a matter of agreement on the ground, isn't it? It is no secret that a very large number of people travel to cities 10 to 15 kilometers away from where they live, anyway. Many prefer to visit a family doctor in the city, as I can see from these statistics. I think that, in cooperation with the municipality, it is possible to find optimal solutions; it is generally not reasonable to ensure the daily reception of family doctors in small places. As I was saying in the example of Varstu, Sõmerpalu's family doctor would take the spot once a week, while the rest of the time a family nurse would work there who can handle most of the operations. We have extended the rights of family nurses so that they can carry out more activities on their own. So it is likely that reasonable solutions can be found on the ground. Given the lack of family doctors and the average age, it is clear that we simply do not have enough people to ensure that general medical care is available to all people in Estonia in a reasonable volume and of good quality so that we have a family doctor centre every five kilometres. One key issue, not only in this area, but also in a very many other areas, I mean education etc., is public transport. Public transport arrangements must be in line with the logic of internal restructuring of the rest of life. I am saying that this is not the case now, at least not enough. We have paid very large amounts of public transport subsidies, but when we look at our bus routes, they do not always meet the needs of the residents. It would be wise to look at this area with a much more open eye and to think about whether it is necessary to drive a 50-seater bus across the county or whether it is better to create smaller, more efficient routes in cooperation. In other countries there is a social transport system that is much better developed than we are. In some cases, it makes more sense to pay for a bigger taxi than to use a large bus. In local and regional administration, we still have a long way to go to ensure that public transport opportunities meet people's real needs. As part of the development of the Health Centres action, we have been in contact with rural governments. It is precisely from this point of view that the requirement that public transport should be guaranteed is included in the terms of the measure, that people should be able to enter the health centre. They must be able to drive there by public transport and be returned within the same day. Additional points will be given to health centres whose public transport arrangements are even better. Perhaps you can start a small bus several times a day. But we can't just do this at the Ministry of Social Affairs. This requires extensive cooperation with rural governments and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to ensure that all so-called "branch policies" are in line with public transport arrangements.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U31	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U32	Minister, thank you very much. Your speech was about 'efficiency', 'optimal','reasonable', etc. I have met the People of the Varstu myself, and I can assure you that they are not very enthusiastic about the health centre project and other efficiency measures. You stated that the main problem was that young doctors did not want to go to the country and that there were few family doctors at all, and you also said that there was nothing to be done. My question is: if the Minister says there is nothing to do, then who should deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U33	Maybe I made a mistake. Yes, we do, and we will. This programme of health centres is aimed at ensuring that the help of family doctors is provided in smaller places. Let's do it systemically, make larger lists, unite family doctors, precisely so that every patient gets help. If, for example, one family doctor at the health centre is ill for a few months or away for another reason, he or she will be on parental leave or whatever, then other family doctors will be able to replace him or her there. That's not right now. When the family doctor leaves, you have to start looking for a temporary replacement, etc. So we are taking a systematic approach to the issue, we are really trying to provide a person with a service, not a family doctor with the opportunity to work in one area or another, but for a person to get help. Of course, if we had enough family doctors to guarantee them a living and a job in every area, we could. But we don't have that option. Young family doctors, as well as other doctors, will receive a starting allowance of EUR 15000 if they go outside the centres to work. How many family doctors have taken this opportunity? I think there was one last year. However, the situation is that money also does not motivate people to go to work in the Vartus to receive a list of 600 people. That's right. We can increase this amount of money, and maybe we can find a doctor in some places, but it's not a long-term solution. The long-term solution is that we can create larger family medical teams, who together cover the county and are ready to receive also locally, outside the health centre. In this way, all residents will always receive high-quality medical care.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U34	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We have heard here very round descriptions of the formation of a family doctor network. Can you give a concrete example of my country, Valgamaa, which large family medicine centres will be there and which smaller ones? Will this plan take a step forward with the municipal reform that the government should soon come up with? I haven't quite figured that out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U36	The program of health centres is based on one study by the University of Tartu. As a result, a list has been drawn up of the municipalities and family doctoral offices and centres that could be affected by this measure. This study is available on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs and a list of their municipalities is available from Annex 1 of the EUR instrument for Health Centres. I don't remember the exact title, but it exists in the State Gazette. Now, according to my memory, there are three centers in Valgamaa, these are Valga, Tõrva and Otepää. These are the primary health centres. In addition, in the case of Valga or Otepää Health Centre, the secondary location is Puka and maybe a few more, I don't know more than that. But there are three great centers: Tõrva, Valga and Otepää.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U37	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U38	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, it is quite difficult for family doctors to find the necessary self-financing to receive support for setting up a health centre. It is precisely the same problem that many municipalities have; such money is not taken from their back pockets. But you mentioned in your speech that about 100 municipalities are involved in this measure. Perhaps you will specify what you mean by this: have 100 municipalities given up on a family doctor's centre or 100 hopes to create it? After all, the measure only concerns the creation of 35 new health centres throughout Estonia. Maybe you'll be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U39	Yes, I am. I referred to the same Annex 1. There, according to my memory, there are about 100 inhabitants, a rural municipality or a city where there will be a primary centre or a secondary place of business, or a branch. 35 health centres are the minimum set up under this action. Everything depends a little on the size of the project in larger cities, larger projects can be carried out, smaller ones can be carried out. Much also depends on how active applicants are in one county or another. The exact number cannot be stated now, but 35 is the minimum we are doing under this euro programme, but there will probably be significantly more. In addition, there is an additional technical option: if this measure is successful and really starts well, it will be possible to increase the financing of this measure over the period of the euro instruments. We hope that this will be actively pursued. As far as self-financing is concerned, in such cases where objects are built on account of euro instruments, self-financing is always required. We have allowed a large number of applicants to set up health centres, including municipalities, companies created by family doctors themselves, as well as hospitals and other hospitals. The solutions found on the ground depend on local circumstances. In some places, family doctors are not interested in this programme at all because they are already concentrated and have infrastructure built with their own resources, and there is greater interest in other places. So let's wait for the first round, see what the picture's gonna look like. But in any case, in every county, we want to cover the main centres with health centres. And today's identity is such that it should succeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U40	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U41	Good manager! Good minister! You said that EUR 15000 was too little to motivate young people to go to the country. Clearly, there will be no health center in Cirgulina, Vartus and other such places. But what package, or how much could motivate young doctors to go to the country? And is it just a question of size or what could be the important incentives that should still be included in the package for young people to go to Cirguin, Vartus and other smaller places rather than health centres?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U42	I may have misjudged myself. I certainly didn't mean 15,000 is too little. I think that the money that the state gives as a starting grant does not motivate people to become a family doctor because the amount is small. I don't really believe in that financial motivation at all. In my previous post, I saw how the teacher's starting grant has worked. Frankly, it didn't inspire much hope either. Young people who have graduated from a university generally do not want to go to small places to start their careers. As far as family doctors are concerned, as I said, the solution to the problem is rather a health care plan. To some extent, it would also be helpful to be able to raise the prestige of a family doctor by teaching medicine, but that is indeed a question of teaching doctors. Health management requires, above all, that young people know how to get a list after school. The current situation is that a family doctor who is in office will decide when someone can take over his list, whether it will happen soon, in five years' time, in ten years, at any time. That practice goes smoothly from one family doctor to the other, so it's planned on both sides, not today. In cooperation with family doctors, we will soon launch a family doctor's incubation program, with the help of which younger doctors can be given a smooth chance to take over a list. Then they can count on it and plan their lives ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U43	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Yesterday, I met people in Rõuge Municipality who claimed that since the Family Doctor of the Vartus is no longer available, they have been waiting for a family doctor for a week and a half. So much for an introduction. But here's what I'm asking you: do you think it'll be okay if, for example, Sõmerpalu's doctor only starts going once a week in the Shadow? If I have a health problem and have to wait a week to see a family doctor, is that really the answer? And secondly, what do you think about the idea of seriously discussing and adapting the burden standards of family doctors to local circumstances? Indeed, if EUR 1 000 does not help, how much would it do? How can we still convince family doctors to stay on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U45	When I told you about Sõmerpalu's doctor's ability to help people in the Vartus, I mentioned that according to the agreement, the family doctor would accept once a week, and the family nurse would accept every day. The family nurse is an independent medical worker who has recently been granted rights by the Riigikogu and can actually help with quite a number of health problems. If there are more pressing and serious concerns, of course, the same family physician can accept Sõmerpalus. We understand that it is not quite impossible to drive to Sõmerball if there is a need.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U46	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U47	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, You said the Ministry had an indication that you could come to the centers of all counties at the family doctor centers. I understand that, for example, the Centre for Family Medicine in Võru could, in essence, also open the branch of Varstu if they applied for this measure and received money from it. I have learned from the press that neither Põlva nor the family doctors of Võru have been able to agree whether they will participate in this programme. Do you have more information? Are they still in?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U48	True, the readiness of family doctors varies from country to country and also from municipality to municipality. Indeed, there are those who work with their small list and think that they can work so well to the end of their working life, and perhaps somebody else will eventually watch how to proceed. There are, of course, those, especially in the larger cities, who have already invested themselves and who do not want any restructuring, because their current arrangements are appropriate. However, we have tried with soft measures to motivate family doctors to participate more actively in the programme. We have asked local hospitals in county centres to take a more active role in setting up family doctoral centres or health centres. After all, the first level and the level of specialised medical care should be linked, and this is certainly well needed in the county centres. I dare not say now whether all county centres can make proper applications that cover most of the county centres' family doctors in the first round. There's no fortress, but we're working to overcome potential fears. The question has been raised, for example, that it is not clear to the end how the Health Insurance Fund will finance the new system of health centres, which components and how it will be financed. We have tried to answer these questions as well as possible. We still want to make sure that this health policy direction is now taken in the country and is worth taking into account when planning its activities, especially if it is planned for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U49	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We've been listening here for a long time to the Minister's proper talk about great incubation programs, grants, learning and anything. But in between, you also said one absolutely right thing in front of you in the hat! just that the processes are actually going a little different. First jobs disappear from the countryside, then people disappear from the countryside, and then you can no longer practice medicine. I would say more: it is no longer possible to run a rescue command or a shop, even in a church congregation there are only 15 people in some places. If a country gets caught up in rural areas like this, shouldn't it be honest to say that life in the countryside is impossible? People have to evacuate from there and bring the country together to the size of Harju County. Or does the government of which you are a minister have some kind of constructive plan to bring people and family doctors back to the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U51	No, I don't think we should all move into Harjumaa together. This would certainly not make sense, and it is in no way part of national policy. Regional policy measures that have been implemented in Estonia have sought to soften this beautiful natural movement from smaller places to towns. It should be noted that in countries with much more active and stronger regional policies, where much more money is invested in regional policy exceptions, the general trend is still the same. Urbanization is a global phenomenon that began in the 50's of the last century and continues so far. During this process, the function and nature of counties and non-urban settlements has changed substantially and becomes even more. I do not think that new models for maintaining sustainable communityhood have been sufficiently developed in Estonia, but I hope we are moving in this direction. When we look at other countries, even the Nordic countries, one of the keywords that characterize smaller rural areas is the mobility of people. There are not all the services offered in every village either. People who live in the countryside consider that they have to travel to a larger center every day. The biggest challenge facing Estonia's regional policy now is how to ensure the sustainability of the county centres. They empty almost as quickly as smaller parishes empty. For example, if we cannot keep the city centre in Võrumaa sustainable in the long term, we will soon have a much bigger problem with all the surrounding municipalities than today. For the time being, I believe that this possibility still exists and that is why it is worth investing and developing in the county centres. There's no reason to think that jobs will be created in any small forest tree. No, it doesn't. Jobs are created in urban settlements. How to strengthen county centres is also a key issue in the context of future administrative reform. In my opinion, the most important thing is for a person, wherever he lives, to receive the service. Whether it is health care, be it education, the state must, in cooperation with the municipalities, consider how the person can receive the service. This does not mean that services must be provided in every village, it is not realistic, but the person must receive the services in a reasonable place.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U52	Thank you, Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. No further questions. I am opening negotiations and Mr Lenk wishes to speak on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U53	Thank you for the floor. Now we've been sitting here an hour and a quarter an hour and a quarter! Dear people, who are you in this hall, tell me, please, what have we heard! Did we get smarter? Did we hear any of the solutions we could offer tomorrow to the People of Varstu or Cirguline? Or to the people of Estonia? We have no solution to give them. We understand that we will have two major hospitals in Tallinn, PERH and clinic in Tartu, and everything. Try, poor and sick, crippled and lame, to get there! I was currently listening to the Social Democrat Minister of Social Affairs talk about family medicine and I remembered how the Socialist Minister of Social Affairs appeared in this very remote area and in the Estonian press in 1991, Marju Lauristin. And his words were something like: 'Dear Estonian people, we are going to the family medical system that we took and borrowed from England. From this day forward, you will all have the opportunity to invite a doctor home even at night, and this same doctor will treat your grandmother and grandpa, your children and your middle-aged mother and father. ' Now it's been 25 years. The Socialist Minister stands on the board and does not know what to do with the Estonian family doctor system. He is offering us family medicine centres, which are being done with European money. Dear people, these are the same clinics that we closed down in 1991 under the leadership of the sots. Everything is happening again! But we don't have jobs in the country, and people are leaving. The Minister of Labour, not just the Minister of Health, stood before us before me in this remote control. We have the opportunity to ask the Minister for Labour where jobs will still be lost if we have such a successful European Union. We don't hear an answer. And specifically what's not right, there's no point in talking on the remote. The Minister did. The same doctor in Valgamaa Cirgulina, yes, he is also elderly. I haven't met him, but I met people in Cirguin who said he wanted to stay there, but the Health Department kicked him out because he didn't have a long list. I'm going there now and I want to meet this doctor to check on Mr. Secretary's story about what he told us here. I don't believe his claims. I think the Minister of Health should still be a person who has at least missed medical treatment, either a former doctor or at least a former nurse. And if we can't do anything else, well, let's do it again in the country, like you were in Soviet times. When you pulled the disc saw in your hand, you could at least have the wound tied up there. Now it's happened that there's been an ambulance waiting in the country for two or three hours, but a person might have his hand hanging by his tendon. There have been cases like this. And this is the European Union's tiger call, a leading country of the European Union! Here we are discussing how Sõmerpalu can get to the mother's clinic to ask the doctor: "Hey, baby, give me some medicine, my back hurts, I can't make it! " I mean, our minister or other health officials have not been in the country. In Narva, they finally got the audition done, it was the first time I've known in 25 years. And now we're asking if they know what kind of people live in Sõmerpalu Parish or Cirgulina or the Stove. These are old people with cass who can barely go to the store. The old man would go to the store and go to the family doctor's, ask me if "give me something, I can't sleep at night." There's no more chance of that. He has to go wait for the bus that goes to Valka once a day, sit on it and wait there in that clean, beautiful hospital and hope that someone will talk to him. And a young, picky family doctor may not want to see him. I understand that. It was inappropriate for the minister to say that our doctors were old. Do you want to see a young surgeon who has this first surgery? You don't want that. You want to go to a doctor with a big practice who's seen people and lives. With such ministers and such a government, Estonia will not succeed, it seems to me. We're stuck in medicine, working arrangements, everything. Today I felt there was nothing to be expected. What state reform do we do when we listen to such answers?! Where does this state reform come from now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U54	Now time's up. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U55	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, From ancient Greece, it is customary to speak pro and contra speeches. If someone has made a contra speech, someone should also make a pro speech, for example, to protect the Minister. What are we hoping for? I wonder if things could be any different, and what is the blame for this poor minister? We live in a country that doesn't think about its own budget. It is important for us to run barefoot, as Jessen once said, but he ran after the Komsomol for the European Union, for those who shout louder. Sanctions against Russia - what has Russia done to you specifically in this Chamber? Did you not understand that after sanctions are applied, our agriculture is going down, dairy producers are suffering and meat producers are suffering? But where are the proceeds from which the poor health insurance fund that our hospitals live and our doctors get paid? One of my relatives is a nurse by chance, studied at Kukruse, graduated in Tallinn. Of the 20 girls with whom he studied, the last one left Estonia three years ago. They're all abroad. She's a nurse, she's got two little kids, and she keeps a family, pays her credit for the house. The nurse's salary! What else can we talk about doctors?! Who's gonna keep us like this? Almost everyone in this hall, at least on the right side of the hall and under the window, is willing to talk about how crazy things were when there were collets, how oppressed the people were. But we're going to visit a few villages right now, and we're going to look at the crumbling club, the former medical station, talk to people, and ask them how they live. Was it possible to live there before, and is it possible to live there now? Political slogans all decide. A little more from the medical system. I have another question, I'm starting to talk about Narva. I understand that if you have rusted Zaporožets and the other one has luxurious Rolls-Royce, if neither one has gas, then neither one will move. The current medical system can be compared to the rusty Zaporožets, and we can come up with a supersystem that can be compared to Bentley or Rolls-Royce, but we don't have any money, not what drives the machine. And why isn't there money? I wasn't in this room then, but I watched it happen, how this hall gave up Nord Stream, a huge income, throwing about a billion dollars out of the country with its own hand in the money at the time. 20,000 jobs went to Finland and Sweden. And we'll keep thinking like that. We have political goals. Someone from the European Union or NATO will give a recommendation, as was the case with the Cohabitation Act, and everyone will march. Always willing to accept whatever comes from that side! The sun always shines above us, and on the other side of the Narva River it's always raining. You know, everyone chooses how he lives and ends up with. If we try to keep going, back up, sooner or later we'll fall into a hole we can't joke about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U56	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I was put here in this chair by the Minister's statement that the rural population is satisfied with the health services. I'd like to see this research. In doing this study, have people from Varstu or Cirgulina been interviewed or people from the municipality of Põlva, for example? It is known that health care is constantly being pulled together there. It is incomprehensible to me that the country treats all regions in the same way. Estonia is, unfortunately, diverse. There are sparsely populated areas, there are counties where the population is declining, but that must not be the reason for the collapse of medical care there. However, it is a conscious policy that general hospitals, or county hospitals, are increasingly being pulled together and reduced services there. And let someone try to prove to me that the service at the University of Tartu Hospital or Tallinn Regional Hospital is cheaper than, for example, in Põlva Hospital, where doctors actually exist, medical equipment exists. Why, then, are administrative methods trying to pull this network together? It is not unknown to the Minister that EUR 400000 is missing this year in order to implement the wage agreement in Põlva Hospital. And if we give the doctors a signal that the number of specialized doctors in the regions is decreasing, which doctor wants to work there? There is no fortress, and it's always being invented that if we don't pull together this year, next year it will. I don't think such government coercion is right. The Health Insurance Fund orders a service and it does not really matter if it orders it from the University of Tartu Hospital or Põlva Hospital if the medical team is able to help people with quality. Why get involved administratively? I don't think that makes any sense. After all, Mr. Minister, the service in Tartu is cheaper than in Põlva Hospital, for example. And if we put travel expenses there, if people have to walk far away in Tartu, it will be considerably more expensive for them and, in the case of ambulances, for the country as well. In my opinion, it would still be worth reconsidering the coercion with two large centres. I think that these additions make a historical mistake and it is relatively difficult to reverse the process. I hope that the Minister, along with the representatives of the Health Insurance Fund, will review these contracts and not, administratively, begin to dismantle these hospitals and join forces with the two centres. I don't see a victory here. Doesn't see a monetary victory, doesn't see any victory for people, doesn't see a regional political dimension. I think we need to rethink something. I think the Minister will also agree with this if he calmly reviews the contracts of the Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U58	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to speak further, but the Minister has the right to exercise the right to speak. Please, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U59	Heimar Lenk is not listening, but I would like to respond to his criticism, which was obviously not directed at this hall, but to good people in Võru and Valgamaa. I don't want any misunderstandings that might affect people's behavior. First, if everything goes well, then the People of the Shadow will really be able to attend a family doctor's appointment. This is an extremely important achievement if we really succeed in doing so in cooperation with the family doctor. Let's hope it works. And now for information on why I came here. Good people, if you cut your hand off like that, so he hangs on you, don't go looking for a family doctor! Call 911! In the event of a high priority call, the ambulance will also arrive in Vartustus and Cirgulina in less than 15 minutes. Don't go looking for a family doctor for Heimar Leng's advice, for God's sake! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U60	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U61	The following question is submitted by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Enn Eesmaa, Rein Ratas, Erki Savisaar, Anneli Ott, Viktor Vassilyev, Peeter Ernits, Kadri Simson, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu and Vladimir Velman. Member of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U62	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The title of the inquiry is "Specialist Assistant in Narva." Right now, standing on the remote, I'm not like an inquisitor, I'm just a resident of Narva. I have to admit that the six questions that are written here are not written by me or our group; these questions arose in Narva Hospital when the doctors conducted their meetings. These questions were received by the Narva Hospital Board, from which they were sent to the City Council of Narva, which forwarded them to me. I just made them up for discussion, and my colleagues supported it with their signature. The point is, last year, we had 18 specialist doctors legally, according to the contract with the Health Insurance Fund. From that year on, however, a three - year specialized medical emergency unit will begin. The Health Insurance Fund's letter states what their plans are for Narva. Specialized medical care will be reduced, and these doctors will eventually be eight. It has gotten so bad that people in the third largest Estonian city are seriously asking the MP whether the maternity home will remain and whether our city can continue to give birth or not. This shows how far the process has already gone. People don't doubt that if there's some bad news, it could be absolutely right at any time, it's not a rumor. No matter how bad the news is, it can happen. I have no illusions. If I had not been approached by people with these questions, I would not be bothering our minister with questions. I imagine the answers are going to be something that Narva's specialists are going to stop, but you don't have to go anywhere, you still have a chance to get a specialist on the ground. The logical question is that if specialist doctors from other places start attending Narva, why are they allowed in another hospital, such as Kohtla-Järve or Tartu, but not in Narva. I'm not going to read the questions because without the answers, it's hard to understand what's being asked here. I hope that the Minister will read the questions before he answers. And lastly, as I said, I personally have no questions, but people do, and I made a promise that as the answers sound, they will be translated literally and published in a few weekly papers that come into every mailbox in Narva. My role in this question is limited to that. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a very good response to the Minister and a good hearing to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U63	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U64	Many thanks to the member of the Riigikogu, Stalnukhin, for bringing the message and bringing the message! Two things to start with. First of all, indeed, as I have said before, Narva's agreement on general medical care needs to be viewed in the wider Estonian context. The issue of planning contracts for general hospitals in Estonia has been under intense discussion in the last few months, including the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. I have said earlier and will say once again that the communication of the Health Insurance Fund on this issue has been extremely unsuccessful. At first, the contract offers have been sent out, and then it has just begun to explain what they are meant for and what a meaningful plan might be for the provision of health services in county centres and other major cities where the general hospital is. Now a second preliminary remark about Narva. This enquiry has been submitted on 27 January. On February 1, a few days after this question was submitted, I was in the city of Narva, where I also met with the members of the city council and the hospital's management. After this meeting, I have confirmed my words in writing to both the council and the hospital. There have been quite thorough negotiations between the Narva Hospital and the Ida-Viru Central Hospital and the Health Insurance Fund, which have touched both this year's contract and the possible future. Narva Hospital has also been visited by a delegation of officials from the Ministry of Social Affairs who have assessed the needs of the hospital in the coming years, including the possibility of providing medical care. From the point of view of this, I will answer the following questions. The first question is: 'Why is the Health Insurance Fund planning to reduce the services purchased by the Narva Hospital (out of 18 specialty services, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund plans to stop buying ten specialty services in three years), even though there is a material and technical base and specialists for this? The demand for the services currently provided in 18 specialties is confirmed by internships and receptions. ' I will answer that question. In making its proposal, the Health Insurance Fund has based itself on the development of "geographical availability" principles, which extend not only to Narva but also to other general hospitals. I have said earlier and will say once again that I believe that the principles of geographical availability require more in-depth reflection and analysis. There is certainly a need for a much more detailed analysis of where and how the provision of specialised medical care is best organised, and this should be examined in the context of the networking of hospitals that have already started. The situation is not only in Narva, but also in other general hospitals such that if we look at forecasts for the next decade, both for the population and for the number of doctors, we can see that hospitals, including general hospitals, are unable to provide quality and optimal healthcare on their own. For a long time now, general hospitals have actually used doctors coming from other hospitals to make a reception on the ground. Either there are no specialists on the ground or, if there were, it would not be possible to provide them with a full load due to the decline in population. As a result, these places are not attractive to specialist doctors. In recent years, a so-called hospital networking project has been launched with the aim of ensuring, in cooperation with the general hospital and the higher level hospital, the provision of medical care on the ground, precisely in cooperation with the two hospitals. There are certain concerns about that. In the past, we have often observed two trends. In some cases, we have seen that a higher - level hospital does not take the capacity and interests of a local hospital seriously enough. It is often not recommended to provide medical care in certain disciplines, even though the necessary specialists are available on the ground and there is demand. Sometimes it's easier to do it in the centers. That is one concern that has arisen. Another concern is that, despite networking, the Health Insurance Fund has often, in addition to an inter-hospital agreement, made its own precepts on how, according to their understanding, it would be necessary to provide services in one place or another. We are now specifying this policy or doing a circle on how to take it. This circle is about two things. Since the development plan for the hospital network, on the basis of which the management and financing of specialist medical care is planned, is running out of validity, we are in the process of a new period during which the provision of specialist medical care is currently planned. According to the original plan, we'll do it differently than we did until now. So far, there has been a case such as hospital type requirements, a regulation that sets the minimum level of specializations that general hospitals, central hospitals and regional hospitals have to offer, and the rest has been left to be the subject of negotiations between the health insurance fund and the hospital. I have expressed the view that there should be a much more individual approach to different hospitals in Estonia; we do not have so many. The situation in Hiiumaa and Narva is radically different, but in law they are both general hospitals. I think that such a general approach is unreasonable and we could agree on the volume of services to be provided by each general hospital, which are the specialties that should be present on the ground by 2030. If we can reach this agreement, hospitals, as well as patients, of course, will have confidence that certain specialties will be developed and funded over the next 15 years. It gives you confidence in how to act. As regards Narva's specialist medical care, I have confirmed that the forecast by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund for 2030 offers that there is a sufficient need for these 18 current outpatient specialties in 2030 as well. There will also be plenty of residents, so it is appropriate to provide this type of specialist medical care on the ground in Narva. I have also expressed in writing the country's willingness to finance this specialist medical care outpatiently. Of course, even now, Narva Hospital, like many other general hospitals, cannot guarantee the reception of all these doctors on their own. The simplest example: An ophthalmologist, or ophthalmologist, has not received people in Narva Hospital for six months. Patients exist, there is a contract, there is money, but there is no doctor and there is no service. So it is not just a question of how much contract the hospital can get. In recent years, the Health Insurance Fund has given Narva Hospital more contract capacity than the hospital has been able to take advantage of. For a very large number of specialties available on the Narva Hospital service list, the hospital can cover only 30-50% of the city's needs. A very large number of specialist medical care falls to external partners of the hospital network's development plan, which is called private practice keepers. In my opinion, in order to provide outpatient specialist care to the residents of Narva on the spot, I am thinking of these 18 specialties, the Narva Hospital should necessarily cooperate with the higher-level hospital, which is the Ida-Viru Central Hospital. We have talked to Ida-Viru Central Hospital and they have expressed their willingness to carry out the same networking process with Narva Hospital, to agree on how specialist doctors will provide assistance and which specializations will be covered locally by their doctors in Narva and what are the priorities. If there are doctors, of course local doctors will receive them. If there is no doctor, it will be agreed how patients will be assisted in cooperation with Ida-Viru Central Hospital. The doctor can come to Narva and get the receptions done, but if necessary, if there are more complicated procedures, the person can be referred to the Ida-Viru Central Hospital. It is clear that this can be done in cooperation. In order to carry out the networking process, the decision of the hospital owner, i.e. the decision of the city of Narva to proceed with it, is necessary. For its part, the government is prepared to allocate additional funds to renovate an emergency department in Narva that does not meet today's requirements in this area. The first agreement with the Prime Minister on this issue exists. There are a lot of questions here, I think I answered most of them, but I also read the rest so that everything is in order. The second question: 'When the principle of geographical availability is realised, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will not buy services from Narva Hospital for more than 10 specialties. They must be available in four locations in Estonia according to geographical availability. This reduces access to health services in Narva. At the same time, you have said that Narva patients do not have to go to Ida-Viru Central Hospital. (Information about your performance on the radio.) Please explain this contradiction. ' I think I explained it. We can help. There is a real need in Narva for medical care in these 18 specialties and this can be provided in cooperation with Ida-Viru Central Hospital. And if it's done in cooperation with Ida-Viru Central Hospital, patients don't have to go far. The third question is based on the opinion that the third largest city in the Republic is worth an individual approach. I agree. As I said, I have given instructions to the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is precisely this objective that we should have a list of the specific services of each general hospital based on a proper analysis. Question 4: 'In your presentation at the Medical 2016 conference, you referred to a less stringent (longer in terms of deadlines) possibility of transition to the principle of geographical availability. ' And that question goes on. After discussions with the Health Insurance Fund, which also took place at the Ministry of Social Affairs, we have agreed that contractual negotiations will be held in tripartite terms: Narva Hospital, Ida-Viru Central Hospital and Health Insurance Fund. Negotiations have taken place, protocols have been signed and, consequently, new versions of the agreement have been sent to Narva Hospital. So the Health Insurance Fund has once again expressed its willingness to provide the necessary specialist medical care in Narva if this can be done in cooperation. There is a certainty that these specialties do not have to be closed in Narva. For certain specialties, it has already been agreed that this type of specialist medical care is provided in cooperation with Ida-Viru Central Hospital. The fifth question refers to my radio appearance, where I said that the Health Insurance Fund does not close down specialties, but the Health Insurance Fund simply no longer obliges hospitals to provide these services. How can they be pointed out when they disappear from the covenant? I've already referred to a few specific disciplines. For example, stationary paediatrics are indeed lost not only in Narva but also in the contract of other general hospitals. There is no fixed pediatric line. But this does not mean that this service is no longer provided, that the pediatricians are out of work. In the same Narva Hospital, the same volume of stationary paediatrics has now been included in the inpatient treatment of internal diseases. The services can be provided in the hospital; not everything is just a separate line.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U65	Thank you, Minister. I have the proposal to use the possibility that Mr Stalnukhin will ask you a question to answer the sixth question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Believe it or not, I pressed the button, knowing that you wouldn't be able to answer all the questions in a quarter hour, but that's the rule. I will explain this to future readers who will study today's verbatim: the regulation will give 15 minutes to reply to the minister. If he doesn't finish, he might be asked to answer the rest of the questions now, and then he'll have until morning to explain what he meant by one thing or another. So that's the only reason I booked an opportunity to ask a question. Mr. Minister, question six, please! Do you have anything else to add to the narcissists?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U67	Yeah, I'll take it from here. Question 6: 'You also said that one of the most rational and realistic ways of solving the problem is to provide the necessary medical assistance in Narva City, in close cooperation with Ida-Viru Central Hospital, and that means that doctors at Ida-Viru Central Hospital will organise a reception in Narva. On this basis, the question arises: If the Health Insurance Fund thinks that the service of a specialist (from the list of Phase III services) could be provided in Narva, why call a specialist from another city if there are specialists in Narva? ' I assure you, of course, that any changes must be implemented with the maximum number of medical staff available, as these people are certainly not too much in other hospitals in Estonia. More like a shortage of doctors. I have also brought it to the attention of the board of the Health Insurance Fund so that they can take this into account in planning the changes. From the experience of other hospitals, it has been broadly taken into account. As far as Narva Hospital is concerned, the aim is certainly to maximise the use of existing medical staff for the provision of the service on the spot and to support the provision of this service with the staff of Ida-Viru Central Hospital or other hospitals if there are no doctors in Narva. I'm going to give you a brief overview of Narva Hospital's current condition. According to the Health Board, the average age of hospital doctors is 59.4 years. The youngest doctor is 38 years old, the oldest 84 years old. There are 17 doctors over 70 years of age, 18%, 47 doctors over 60 years of age, 49%. Young doctors have not gone to Narva Hospital for years. This is why we are seeing, in part, gaps in capacities already in certain disciplines, and it is quite clear that in the future, due to the further ageing of the medical profession, the provision of services in many specialties will become even more difficult. But once again, according to the analysis by the Ministry of Social Affairs, I can explain this in more detail, and I can also show you the analysis schedule once we have reached the very end of this, which should happen during this spring, there will be enough treatment capacity in Narva to provide outpatient medical care in the current 18 specialties. It is necessary that these 18 specialties continue to exist in Narva, as people would then receive help as close to home as possible. Many patients travel from Narva to Puru Hospital are logistically complicated and simply unreasonable. If the doctor has enough pressure on the spot, people should be helped on the spot. Therefore, if we manage to reach a formal agreement in cooperation between Ida-Viru Central Hospital and Narva Hospital, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund will be prepared to provide assurance that this will also be taken into account in subsequent financing agreements. One more aspect here: undoubtedly, in many municipalities, including the city of Narva, there is stronger first-level assistance, and that is why communication with specialised medical care at a general hospital is extremely important. After all, people must receive healthcare of the highest possible quality and speed. In this context, we have negotiated seriously with Narva Hospital and asked them for their part to participate in the preparation of the hospital network development plan as a hospital for a health centre project, so as to concentrate at least some of it with the Narva family doctor hospital in order to improve coherence. There is actually room in Narva for the creation of a second family medical centre. It could be downtown. I hope that there too, family doctors will be able to put their backs together and apply for their part. And at the end of the day, different kinds of fear and other rumors about medicine are still moving. This is a self-explanatory theme that is very important to people, and often there are strong emotions at stake. In this way, any fragmentation of misinformation may begin to move unless possible changes or the system is adequately explained. This is not just Narva's problem, it is also noted in many other places. I hope that in the last few months, however, we have been able to explain the direction of the changes in substance sufficiently well. Once again, when an agreement is concluded, the long-term guidelines of the country are to ensure security of service in this way. The aim is for each hospital to agree long-term on the specialties offered on the ground. There is no risk of loss of maternity care in Narva for the next 15 years, hopefully not in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U68	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Planning and offering contracts to both Narva Hospital and all other health care providers depends primarily on the financial resources of the health insurance fund. It is also known that the Health Insurance Fund's budget is down to about 15 million this year. I also see no improvement if there is no change in funding if there is no change in the basis of the funding system's bounty versus case. What are the plans of the Government of the Republic to provide healthcare funding for a longer period of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U70	Thank you. This is the second question that wants to run into the third question, which is the future of financing health care. I am not going to talk about these plans right now, because that is exactly what the next question is about. However, what I am saying is that plans to develop the package of services for general hospitals certainly have a financial dimension. However, I would argue that this is not the most important thing today. It is not a question of wanting to save a lot of money, and not a lot of money. The issue is that because of the changes in population composition and due to the decline or ageing of the medical community, we consider the main problem to be how to ensure the availability of specialised medical care in many disciplines in the counties. As has been said, the average age of specialists is approaching 60 in Narva, for example. We are thinking in advance of how the cooperation between the larger centre and the general hospital can still cure people. But we'll talk about the money for the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U71	No more questions right now. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U72	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for your answers. What they were, they're going to print in Narva. People will either ask further questions or start looking for new treatment options. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I have an idea for you how to get out of this situation, how to make our health care system start to improve. That's a very good idea, I think. Right now we have the Minister of Health and Labour, right? It used to be the Minister of Social Affairs. Let them heal each other. There was once a social minister, Mr Nestor, sitting behind me, I still remember Siiri Oviir, now Mr Ossinovski. If they get sick, let them heal each other. And then maybe we're starting to realize that you can call it whatever you want, but the Minister of Health is a political office, and the Minister can be any smart guy. I have once said this about the Minister of the Interior that we are going to have trouble with criminal policy just as long as it is run by people with vocational high school education who have no experience in working with the police. Believe me, medicine is such a fine thing, there are so many things to understand! He's going to take us, sorry, butt just as long as it's run by people who haven't smelled medicine at all. Well, except for that sniffing spirit that we get put under our noses sometimes. Our education system is run by a man like Jürgen Ligi, who has everything... I'd use one word, but maybe my listeners from Narva will listen to me. Estonians are used to that word and you understand what word I wanted to use right now. I can't say it. But this whole system goes back to the abyss when it's not pros, it's just an official, a political official. This is why we have the Estonian Air case, which is why Eesti Energia has all kinds of strange projects in America or Jordan, which is why we have incidents in Tallinn Port and Estonian Railways, with tens of years. But after hundreds of millions of euros have disappeared, if you recalculate, you can talk about billions of kroons, we complain that there will be some 18 million euros missing in Narva in 2030. And at the same time, we know well that every day, every minute, big money goes to the wind just because we're not run by professionals. What do you want? What kind of result do you want to achieve? If I send a doctor somewhere on an animal farm and tell him he's gonna have to get some results there, or vice versa, we're gonna take a person from the farm and say you're gonna have to treat people now, what happens then? The simplest facts come to light the hardest: professionals have to deal with education, health care, internal protection, etc. Politicians have no business there. As long as we do not finish this practice, we will still sit here late at night on Mondays and discuss one subject after another, but nothing will change for the better. It only gets worse and worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U73	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak, nor does the Minister wish to speak. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U74	The next question is submitted by Riigikogu members Raivo Põldaru, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Jaak Madison, Uno Kaskpeit and Arno Sild. On behalf of the heirs, Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U75	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Today's third question also concerns our health and financing of the Estonian health system. The Health Insurance Fund is going to go to a disadvantage with its budget this year. How does the government intend to solve the problem of the missing amounts? Several years ago, the World Health Organisation warned that Estonia would have a shortage of resources, and this is it. The National Audit Office has also frightened us that the Estonian health care system is not sustainable. To overcome this problem, the Health Insurance Fund has apparently taken action this year, for example, to reduce the chances of treating heart patients. The minister told me that money isn't really a problem at all, there's plenty of money. Perhaps there is enough money in Estonia because, according to the latest published data, the health insurance fund finances 65% of people's treatment, the patient's own contribution is around 24%, the rest comes from somewhere else. Perhaps today, the minister is talking about the possibilities, where the deficit cover comes from, and how we can proceed with the health insurance system. We have five questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U76	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U77	Dear Chairman, Dear Riigikogu! I answer the third question, which I think might have been the first one, because it seemed that there was the most interest in this Chamber. The question concerns the future of healthcare funding, the sustainability of the entire health insurance system. The previous speaker claimed that the Estonian health care system is unsustainable. I certainly cannot agree with this, I will try to describe the problem more precisely. Our current system works very well in the sense that we have a public health insurance institution, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, which follows the very clear principle of solidarity insurance. Everyone, no matter how much they earn, gets to see a doctor. We have managed to create a health system of world-class quality with rather modest tax expenditure. If we compare this achievement with the systems of our fellow fates in the countries of Eastern and Central Europe, it is certainly impressive. We have done very well. The independent public body managing health insurance, the sickness fund with its own means of income, has been one of its success guarantors. Health care funds have not been distributed to cover other budget expenditure. There are countries where this has been done, and the consequences for health have been beautifully negative. At the same time, there is also the problem of the unsustainable health funding system. In addition to tax revenues, our health insurance fund's own resources consist of a few small amounts of funding. In principle, however, this social tax accounts for 13% of health insurance. In other words, the budget of the sickness fund is almost 100% based on labour tax. We all know that from this year on, more people will leave the labour market for retirement than the so-called 'bottom-up' entry into the labour market. Thus, the number of people of working age in Estonia is starting to decrease. If the working age population starts to decline and the population is ageing, people live longer, then it means that we have more of those whose treatment needs to be financed from health insurance and less of those who pay for it. This means that, since 2021, 2022, perhaps 2023, different scenarios have been proposed, the budgetary position of the Health Insurance Fund will become structurally negative. If the volume of service remains the same, the costs exceed revenues and this means that the system needs to be changed. With such an introduction, I will begin to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U78	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U79	No, no, wait, the questions are still unanswered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U80	Oh, I hear you've already said thank you. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U81	I don't know how much time there is left.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U82	You still have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U83	The first question: 'What is going to be done with this deficit of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund? ' The budget deficit of the Health Insurance Fund needs to be looked at in a slightly broader context. The position of this year, which the Riigikogu has established with the state budget, is indeed minus 9.1 million euros. At the same time, it essentially affects the structural fiscal position of the national central government and does not affect the financial capacity of the sickness fund. This was due to the fact that, at the end of 2015, the total reserves of the Health Insurance Fund amounted to nearly 196 million euros, of which the unallocated result of previous years was 117 million euros. In recent years, it is precisely because of this earlier result that the annual budget has been downgraded, but it is only accounting important in itself. It is clear that the available reserves can only finance health care for a certain period of time. At one point, there is a limit to the risk reserve, and it should happen, as I said, in 2022 or 2023. So in the coming years, we will not, in fact, have problems financing health care. The Health Insurance Fund, together with the government and the Riigikogu, has really allowed the budget to become negative, but that is all right, this money has gone to a greater extent to provide health services. But in the long run, it is clear that the system needs to be changed. Health insurance based on labour tax alone is not sustainable in Estonia, at least as long as we have fewer people of working age, rather than growing. The second question: 'Where will the funds be taken to cover this deficit? ' As has already been said, this is initially an unallocated result of the Health Insurance Fund, which can be used to provide healthcare. According to the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic, the options for changing the financing of health care are currently being analysed. I know that it was today that the staff of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with an expert from the World Health Organisation, discussed these issues, and tomorrow there will be a meeting with me, too, and in the next month we will present our proposals to the Government of the Republic. There are several ways forward. The easiest thing to do would be to get certain costs out of the health insurance fund. For example, it has been said that temporary incapacity benefits will be paid by the unemployment fund instead of the sickness fund. The problem of the structural budget of the Health Insurance Fund would delay it somewhere until 2030, but from the state's point of view, it is, of course, an increase in expenditure from one pocket to another, which would still affect the structural position of the government. Another option is to expand the health insurance tax base, i.e. to achieve a higher proportion of persons paying this tax. There are different options proposed, but there have been no unambiguously good ones. Of course, it is possible to raise the tax, but we are trying not to go this way because the social tax burden in Estonia is already beautiful. There is a possibility of introducing new targeted taxes which could be of a preventive nature for health. Personally, I think that part of the excise duty on tobacco and alcohol could be paid into the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. It would be perfectly understandable behind the logic of health insurance: those who consume alcohol and tobacco products need more medical care one day. If the excise duty were also paid into health insurance, they would basically buy themselves additional health insurance, which would make sense. But these discussions and analyses are still in the initial phase. As has been said, the government will receive the first overview by the end of this month, then we are ready to introduce it to the Riigikogu as well. The third question: 'How do you explain that the health care budget is constantly increasing (from now to as much as EUR 1 billion) but the waiting lists for medical admission are increasing and the number of treatment cases is also decreasing significantly (by 86,000 cases per year)? ' It is true that in 2016, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will be able to use more money than in the previous year. The total budget of the Health Insurance Fund for 2016 is EUR 1 billion and EUR 4.4 million, an increase of 6.4% compared to last year. In 2016, the budget for specialised medical care will increase by nearly EUR 28 million, while the budget for family medical care will increase by 9%. Now, when we talk about where most of this money is going, most of this money is going to be an increase in the salaries of medical workers resulting from the collective agreement. Health care workers' wages have risen nearly twice as much in the last two years as in Estonia on average, and this year nearly 10%. This has been the main target of additional budgetary resources, most of which have gone into the pay component. In 2016, 34 million have exactly gone into the pay component. Now for the treatment cases. The question is a misleading statement that the number of treatment cases is decreasing. It is true that between the second and third reading of the Health Insurance Fund's budget, the social tax forecast slightly deteriorated and the special medical care line was reduced. However, after negotiations with the Board of the Health Insurance Fund, the Council has approved the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, according to which the number of treatment cases remains the same, does not decrease. A small buffer reserve has been set up to allow the number of treatment cases to remain at the same level this year. When it comes to queues, queues are undoubtedly a very complex issue, and it is not possible to analyse it in this way with a single tree. On your question, you claim that the queues are increasing. It is true that some disciplines have queues above the permitted rate, and very much above the permitted rate. In particular, it is specialised doctors who can be contacted without a referral, i.e. without a family doctor's consultation in the meantime. But it is the family physician who really needs to assess whether a person has to go to a specialist or not to a specialist. In many other countries, however, the prior admission of a family doctor is required to go to specialist doctors for whom we do not need a referral for a visit. I think it is also worth moving in this direction in Estonia. This requires some preparation, training of family doctors in the relevant areas, but basically we could move in that direction. The second aspect is that we do not actually have a substantive systematic overview of the queues. The reason is that each hospital keeps its own registration desk and separately, opens up times as it pleases, and patients also sign up as they wish. For example, we may at times be able to queue with a specialist without a referral letter from a family doctor, even if it is not really possible to get to the doctor without a referral letter. In the same order, there are those who have a referral, for whom the family doctor has assessed that the person must go to a specialist. We have been saying that hospitals could, as a matter of urgency, open a separate check-in line specifically for patients targeted by family doctors who would have priority access to a specialist. One problem is that many people, we don't know exactly how many people, but many people put themselves in line at the same time in several hospitals to see where they can get reception faster. They go to one reception, but they don't cancel the other often. In terms of the use of doctor's time, this is an empty cost: there is no time, there is no patient. One example to confirm this. As of 1 July last year, we had 15,000 receptions registered more than a year earlier. In one year, registration increased by 9%, while the volume of treatment remained the same. We don't think people got 9% sicker in one year, do we? Such statistical inconsistencies are not yet properly managed. There is a technological solution to this, but its implementation has been exceptionally long and unwarranted. We have now taken the matter seriously in the Ministry of Social Affairs, and we hope that next year we will be able to launch a national digital registration office that will put together open admissions from all specialised doctors in all hospitals into a unified system. This will finally give us the opportunity to see and understand what is behind the different queues and avoid duplication of ordering. Several other proposals are also underway. The queues never go away. In some countries, which we consider to be exemplary and rich countries, the order of many specialised doctors is even longer. So, to some extent, they always remain, but it is clear that the current situation is neither satisfying patients nor satisfying me personally. So you have to make an effort here. The final question is whether, in future, patients will have to pay more for their own medical care. We have set out both in the population health development plan and in the context of the WHO recommendations that participation not exceed 25% of the cost of all health care services. That's what we're going to hold on to. In 2014, we reached a beautiful neighborhood, about 24%. So, in my opinion, increasing your participation in the Estonian health care system cannot be considered an option. Now, what does this own contribution consist of? Two of the largest components: one is the cost of medicines and the other is the cost of dental care. On dental care, the government has agreed and I hope that the Riigikogu will also be able to discuss the introduction of dental benefits for adults in the coming months. This includes money from 2017 so that all adults can partially treat their teeth with state support. This reduces the relevant own contribution. We will also further analyse the financial burden on medicines in order to achieve optimal ownership of the different population groups. However, in general terms, increasing ownership is certainly not an option; rather, we are talking about reducing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U84	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U85	Thank you, Minister. Dear Deputy Speaker! We were talking about a structural minus, and then, a few moments later, you said that we've been loss-making all along in recent years. I think we have the structural minus. But I didn't really want to ask. In fact, I still didn't understand what the solution was. No clear solution other than that maybe some of the costs can be transferred to the unemployment fund, I didn't hear. All of this we know that Estonia's population is declining and the working age population is declining. So what's the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U86	As I said, a group of both Estonian and international experts is currently analysing different solutions. I called those work options that we're working on. They all certainly need to be considered very carefully, both in the context of health care and budgetary impact. When experts have analysed everything and we have come to this stage that proposals can be presented to the government, and when they have been introduced to the government, I will be happy to give an overview of them to the public, including the Riigikogu. At first, they are not mature enough. But the directions are clear in themselves. If we move part of the expenditure out of the Health Insurance Fund's budget, such as disability benefits, it will simply delay our problem, and it will not solve structural concerns. The second trend is to expand the health insurance tax base. Broadly speaking, it is possible either to reduce costs or to increase revenue, and there is not much more wisdom here. But the question is, in detail, which taxes or groups of persons to proceed with. The easiest option would really be to withdraw part of the expenditure from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, but then we will simply postpone this problem for ten years. I would like to stress once again that we will not have any concerns in the coming years; in the coming years, the Health Insurance Fund will be doing well with the current system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U87	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, There is no concern in the coming years, but it still emerges from these answers, and it also makes sense that our healthcare financing system is unsustainable. Raising money from one pocket to another, as you said yourself, will not solve the problem. Tax increases are also unsustainable. You will give up the increase in ownership, as is clear from the answers. The main problem is that more people leave the labour market than they do. This trend began a long time ago. In this regard, I ask whether there are any more radical measures. Are there any other measures to consider, such as raising the retirement age? After all, years of healthy living are coming, working relationships are more flexible, hourly wage accounting is. Are there any other measures? All that you have said is that it is currently being considered will not lead to a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U89	I answered that question when I explained what was going to be done with the so-called health fund money pot. Of course, the sustainability of healthcare funding is also affected by a number of other policies. I have stressed that the cheapest driver is the prevention manager, or the cheapest treatment is prevention. This is one of my clear priorities. For example, more decisive steps must be taken in tobacco, alcohol and drugs policies to reduce costs. If we take alcohol, more than 30 million euros every year will go from Estonian health insurance money to deal with the damage caused by alcohol. It is currently under development, though it is at an early stage, a basic document on movement and nutrition policy, the Green Paper. This is certainly one area that is becoming increasingly problematic in Estonia. The number of overweights in children is increasing, activity is decreasing. This is obviously one of the most important risk factors, particularly for cardiovascular diseases, where we are already at the forefront of Europe, as well as for three other reasons: alcohol, tobacco and overweight. So prevention needs to be significantly more focused, also in the funding of the sickness fund. Of course, we have great hopes for primary care - the same health centres where prevention must also be developed. I'm sure it's a measure. The second is increasing employment, i.e. bringing more people into the labour market and keeping them in the labour market. The restructuring will take place in two stages: the first phase of the work capacity reform was launched on 1 January this year; the second phase will start on 1 July. We are really helping people who have so far not been adequately supported by the state so that they can contribute to the labour market and, in addition to a dignified, independent life, thereby increasing the tax revenue of the country. The government has set up a Social Security Reform Committee, which will also discuss pension issues, and these proposals should reach the Government of the Republic in the near future. We have an agreed retirement age up to 2026 by this time the retirement age will rise to 65. But it is clear that, with the expected increase in life expectancy, the retirement age should also rise. At the same time, I believe that we should allow significantly more flexibility in the choice of retirement time, because people's ability to work and their motivation to work vary considerably. One issue that is undoubtedly very important is what we call the second stage of the work capacity reform. While, in the first phase, the focus is on helping people with reduced working capacity into the labour market, i.e. responding "ex-post" to the damage to health, the second phase is aimed at preventing health damage and occupational diseases. This is also an area where important analyses are carried out, some of them are already ready and have also been introduced to the Riigikogu committee, some are still in the process. The goal is for people to be able to maintain their working ability over a long period of time. There are certainly questions about disability benefits and such things. In the near future, the government is planning to exempt employers' contributions to sports and health care, including rehabilitation. All the smaller steps that should be taken together to ensure that people are really healthy for longer and can work longer are planned. And health prevention is undoubtedly extremely important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U90	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U91	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I generally like to approach the subject analytically, but I ask a specific question. We'll take the same general hospital who doesn't really have enough money to cover the salary agreement this year. I just called the head of Põlva Hospital. There the wage agreement began to be implemented as of 1 March. This is not really fair or fair, but they still have a deficit of a few hundred thousand euros. For what is the health insurance fund's reserve of EUR 191 million if a few million cannot be used from there to comply with the wage agreement? What's stopping it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U92	It is certainly possible to comply with the wage agreement. It is a question of providing services in one hospital or another, whether this is done in cooperation with a higher level hospital or on its own. There are certainly hospitals where more efficient management is possible. That is one issue I did not refer to in reply to the previous question. In the context of health sustainability, we very much want hospitals to manage people's medicines more rationally than they do in some places. The current system of funding the health insurance fund, to put it mildly, does not always motivate the most sensible decisions. If every study receives money on the basis of a price list, then simple logic says that a lot of research has to be done. Whether this is always the most reasonable thing about a patient is a question of your own. As far as the wage agreement is concerned, yes, I admit it will be difficult to implement this year. In fact, this has been difficult for the second year, because the wage agreement has been very favourable for workers. It is also positive in terms of maintaining the health system, but by looking at the financial opportunities of the Health Insurance Fund linked to the collection of social tax, we can see that there has been great pressure. If the social tax base, i.e. the income from employees' social tax, grows by 5% on average wage increases, but the wages of health care workers increase by 10%, then it is clear that certain scissors are emerging. However, we must manage this year and hopefully in the coming years we will be able to plan the budget a little more easily. But we certainly expect Põlva Hospital, as well as other general hospitals, to be active in the context of seduction. These options are open to hospitals, so let's hope for an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U93	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. With the limited budget of the Health Insurance Fund, it is essential that this money is used sensibly and purposefully. Serious criticism has been made about the financing model. Family doctors are funded on a bounty basis and special doctors are financed on a so-called occasional basis. In addition, both family doctors and specialist doctors have said that funding is strongly in favour of specialised medical care, in a positive way. Has a change in this unfair financing model been considered? In fact, the question is, as you said before, that the specialty of family doctors is not popular, they are not motivated. There is certainly one reason for funding. Is that what we're going to change?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U95	I guess a lot of people have different ideas. In the area of health, there are a lot of smart people who have proposed how the system could be better organised. As a rule, these proposals have narrowly touched on the part of the financing of healthcare to which these people are specifically linked. Understandably, however, questions seem quite different from different angles. Some say that general medical care is underfunded, others say that specialised medical care is underfunded. And one way or the other, it is usually possible to find support for one's position. My idealistic hope is that we will be able to make funding patient-centred instead of health care. In order to ensure that, regardless of the level at which a person receives assistance and should receive it at the most reasonable level, funding model systems do not restrict the possibility of receiving the best treatment. For example, after specialized medical care, such as after some surgery, family doctors need to monitor the patient. At present, it is beautifully few; the financing model does not directly encourage it. But sometimes it is possible to create a model where a particular patient is really meant when he moves from one level to another or to a further level of rehabilitation, after-treatment. Is it possible to create such a model in its entirety in such a way that all possible risks have been mitigated? I've been holding back my ambitions for a while. I am certainly prepared to discuss sensible proposals, but it must be understood that a very fundamental change in the financing system is a very big change that will not be made in one year. Of course, this would require an exceptionally thorough discussion. At the moment, I believe that some of the inconsistencies we have in the financing system could be tried to liquidate and, nevertheless, to proceed with the same system. But it is clear that in some time perspective changes are necessary, and this is also because technology changes and medicine changes. Medicine, among other things, becomes considerably more personalized, and in this personalized medicine, some medical silos certainly do not work as well as they have worked so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U96	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Last year the law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws was passed with the votes of the members of the coalition, which, among other things, reduces the social tax rate by a percentage, but in stages. From 2018, the tax rate will be 32%. In your speech, you stressed the need to seek additional money in the area of health care, but when there was the protection of the cluster law, the Minister of Finance confirmed that it did not concern health care or the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Can you confirm today that the reduction in the social tax rate will not affect the health insurance fund and the entire health care budget? Do you find this step logical and correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U98	Indeed, according to its programme of activities, the government brought such a draft to the Riigikogu and the majority of the Riigikogu approved it. This law also clearly states how the same 1% of the other income of the state budget will be compensated for health insurance. This is legally guaranteed, so there is no risk to the health insurance budget. The decision to reduce the proportion of social tax paid to the sickness fund does not reduce the budget of the sickness fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U99	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U100	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! However, your report and your replies show that the current financing system is unsustainable, while it is clear that the number of people in need of care is likely to increase with the ageing of society. I have a proposition and I want to know what you think of it. A reduction in social tax is, of course, a great relief for employers, but perhaps at the same time, there could be private compulsory health insurance for workers? A person would collect money specifically so that he could pay for his medical services in the event of illness. Wouldn't that be one solution to the clearly unsustainable situation today? After all, it would also give a person the opportunity to decide for himself whether to use this money in a public health care system or in a private clinic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U101	There are countries around the world, including the United States, where health insurance is also based on private insurance for individuals themselves or on various employer schemes. The result is very uniform and clear: people who earn below the median salary are essentially uninsured and, if they have more serious health problems, they will not receive treatment because the required health insurance is very expensive. If we take the Estonian health insurance system, in principle 13% of the social tax that is currently going on health insurance can be called an insurance contract. And this insurance contract, in my opinion, works on the principle of social justice. Of course, from the perspective of some world views, this is probably an unfair system. But justice is that all people who contribute to the work in Estonia receive treatment, regardless of how little or how much they have earned. This means that employees with a higher salary in Estonia basically pay for the treatment of employees with a lower salary. This is solidarity in the health insurance system. If you withdraw from this principle and give people the opportunity to buy their own health insurance, this solidarity will be interrupted and means that wealthier people will receive better treatment in Estonia and less wealthy people will be completely deprived of medical care. The example of the United States shows very clearly how people fall into a loan trap because of their health problems: they need to borrow money to get to a doctor. I don't think it's an ideal to move towards. The solidarity health insurance system is one of the greatest values of Estonian health care and must be maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U102	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As is well known, Estonian citizens have the right to treatment in other countries as well. How much of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund's paid-up treatment constitutes, be it simpler or more complicated operations? Has there been a significant increase in treatment in other countries, or has this increase been rather modest?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U104	I don't have the bill in hand, and I'm not gonna find them right now. But this is a very marginal part of the cost of the health insurance fund. This treatment is compensated for on two bases. For a long time, treatment has been compensated by the decision of the Health Insurance Fund for procedures that are either not provided in Estonia or not indicated in such a way that the patient is specifically indicated. But these are quite a few cases. Well, 'pretty lonely' maybe a little underrated, but certainly these cases aren't more than a few decades a year. The other part concerns the directive on the cross-border movement of people, which has also entered into force in Estonia and allows a person to receive medical care outside Estonia if he or she is insured in Estonia. In that case, he or she will receive healthcare in another Member State and the Health Insurance Fund will compensate for the cost of this service on the basis of the price list of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. It's been used, but pretty little. This regulation is primarily intended at European level to complement the free movement of workers in substance. For example, it may be that a family moves to another country and one of the spouses goes to work, but the other stays at home. He has health insurance from his home country, but there is no local health insurance because he does not work there. Then he'll still get medical attention. Therefore, regulation does not hinder the free movement of workers. At the same time, the European Union is never intended for the mass movement of patients from one country to another. I'm saying from memory, but about 1% of the European population gets healthcare in another country, more or less. In the case of Estonia, of course, the additional restriction is that in most countries of the European Union, health services are much more expensive than in Estonia, which means that since the health insurance fund compensates for the services on the basis of its price list, the patient's own contribution remains the difference, which is beautifully large. Actually, we could see the situation the other way around. Perhaps Estonia will have an opportunity to receive more money from the health insurance fund thanks to such a health care system. For example, if patients insured in Finland receive medical care in Estonia, they will be paid on the basis of the Finnish price list. So it might give us a chance to make money in the future. But in any case, treatment abroad is not massive and is never planned on a massive scale.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U105	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you right now. Would you like to negotiate? Please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U106	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the Minister, things got a lot clearer. As long as these changes and searches are not too late, so we have gone completely bankrupt before. Today there were also praises for our medicine. Indeed, those who eventually reach a specialist will receive good treatment. I've felt that way myself in the last four years. Except it often happens that people don't get to the doctor. Before it gets so serious, they're just gonna die. If so, one might ask whether it is not human rights that are being violated because of long queues that cause serious damage to human health or even death. As far as the queues are concerned, I would point out that certain operations are being carried out when the teeth we have mentioned today are being repaired. But until then, perhaps the situation with future laws will change a little bit. The dental care is on the person's own, and if he doesn't have the money in his wallet, he won't be able to get help to deal with this other problem either. The Minister also stated that our health system is indeed in trouble. This is not sustainable and the money is becoming scarce. So I have not come up naked with my own opinion; these doubts have also been expressed by the higher bodies. A few more thoughts, maybe. Indeed, the total costs of our health system represent a much smaller share of total social output than the average in Europe. So if we wanted to finance ourselves better and bring this indicator to European level, we should put a lot of money into the medical system, but, as with any question, we will encounter a specific obstacle here in the Riigikogu: money and money, money and money. The 2013 figures spoke such a language that the European Union average was 10.1% of total production for medicine, 5.7% in Estonia. When it comes to government spending, the European Union averaged 15.9% of government expenditure, we 11.3%. Indeed, we are commended for the sustainability of our medical system. So he is, and I would say that with this state of affairs, we can use much better doctors than we expected, and we can also use better treatments than we expected. If we finally get to the real doctor. There were also queues and there were statistical errors in the indicators. I guess it is, but people are getting old, and the next year, the more a person needs a doctor's helping hand. Maybe we should try and fix the queues. In this respect, we also need to talk about e-services. It seemed that the deputy chancellor had thought that there would be one more e-service every quarter. But when it comes to previous questions, family doctors say that they simply do not reach out to them, they also have administrative issues, economic issues, reports on their own work and sister's work, plus these e-services. They are not able to keep up with everything and constantly improve themselves. So there really is little time left to treat and deal with patients. Once again, as long as we are not too late to seek and find solutions. It is urgent to decide how to find the money needed in the health insurance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U107	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. We have concluded the debate on today's third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U108	Let's go to the fourth question. This is an inquiry to the members of the Riigikogu, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarse, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmme, Ain Lutsep, Andres Herkel, Jüri Adams and Artur Talvik about the award of the state's cultural prizes. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for Culture. In the name of the heirs, Krista Aru comes to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U109	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Minister, thank you very much. Members of the Estonian Free Party Group submitted this question on 28 January. Today is March 7th and, in fact, this issue, on which the inquiry was drafted, has sort of resolved. The country's cultural prizes have been awarded, the prizes have been awarded to very dignified candidates, we have all rejoiced about this, and this event was very nice. But if, on the one hand, we had no reason to talk about it anymore, because it was an official's fingernail, and there are mistakes for everyone, then, on the other hand, we are talking about national cultural prizes. Unfortunately, in recent times, we have too often started to look at the problems, and also just those things that are a little bit badly, hasty and superficially, and found that yes, now it is all right, let's move on. Perhaps we should learn more often what we did wrong then, where the mistakes were and how mistakes could still be avoided. We do not want the Minister of Culture to start talking in this Chamber about how one or another official has been punished. Rather, we would like the Minister of Culture to view this as a problem that should not be wrong to resolve. We don't have many so dignified and beautiful bonuses in the country. Here is the question that perhaps we should even think about how to introduce these candidates more dignifiedly and better, not just by choosing the best of the best. Anyone who has been nominated for this prize deserves to be more introduced to society as a whole. There are six questions in our inquiry. The fourth of these is maybe the most momentary. But I would like to apologise, in particular, for this embarrassing case from all the candidates, including the Commission, and to look at it as an accident at work in the Ministry of Culture, which will certainly draw its own conclusions. What these conclusions are, the Minister of Culture will tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U110	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I will answer the questions put by the members of the Free Party Group. The first question: 'How is it possible at all that some of the candidates proposed are excluded from the list of nominees (in this case, one)? ' I agree with you that this is a very unfortunate case. The human error caused a major problem. I'll tell you what's going on. The application concerning Heljo Männi was submitted at the end of 2015, with most other applications made at the beginning of 2016. Applications were registered in the documentation management system of the Ministry of Culture. After the deadline for submitting applications, on 10 January, the Ministry of Culture's employee's statements from the document management system were imported into the table for the Commission, but an error occurred in the process: only the applications submitted in 2016 reached the table. The second question: 'If the candidates had not noticed what happened before the Commission's decision was issued, how would the Ministry have resolved the matter? ' The publication of the list of candidates is the control mechanism provided by the legislator, which worked this time. Candidate applicants noticed an error. We can only answer the question in a way that could have been. I can express my view on how I think it would have been necessary to act in such a situation. If what had happened was described by the honourable questioners, the ministry would have had to behave in the same way, i.e. in an open manner. Like any mistake, this should have been publicly recognised and the whole process should have started from the beginning. I can assure you that, in order to avoid such errors, the Ministry of Culture has today reviewed this procedure and the measures taken to prevent such a situation. Question 3: " How should control and responsibility be guaranteed to avoid such very serious errors? ' If I may, I will answer that question with an answer to your last question. Question 4: 'Does the Ministry in your person address the nominees of Heljo Männ with explanations and excuses, what is the content of the explanations? ' The Ministry has been in contact with Marie Edala, the representative of Heljo Männ's candidacy performers, and has also sent a written apology. Among other things, the Ministry asked the applicants for the nomination of Heljo Männ to submit their complaint in writing so that the Commission could examine it as closely as possible at its meeting. The Ministry has also apologized to Heljo Männ. Question 5: 'In social media, there is already a message that the nominations have been informed of the Commission's decision. What's the situation? How will it now be ensured in the second decision that the Members of the Commission do not feel involved in the first decision? ' Each member of the Commission and a ministerial staff must be aware that the decision to award a state prize is taken by the Government of the Republic and any information that is shared before the decision of the Government is taken is premature. The selection of candidates for prizes has been entrusted to professionals in the cultural field since 1999 when these prizes began to be awarded. As chairman of the committee, I can assure you that their work is always difficult, but this incident made them even more uncomfortable. For my part, I have also apologized to them for creating this awkward situation. But I can say for sure that, at the extraordinary meeting convened, the members of the Commission considered the situation seriously and made a decision on the basis of their professional expertise. Question 6: "What are the conclusions and lessons from what happened for the future? Shouldn't in the future be sent to all requesting organisations, persons, a so-called "declaration list"? " The Ministry of Culture has assessed the process from the registration of applications to the Commission's decision and has started to draw up a guide that regulates every move of the whole process so that such situations can no longer arise. The document to be drawn up regulates the work of the different departments with statements, the keeping of checklists, the submission of applications to the Commission and the work of the Commission in different situations. It is also planned to introduce a form of application in the current free form, which will facilitate the sequencing of applications. Your proposal to send the applicants a confirmation list is one of the possible means of verification and also deserves to be considered. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U112	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for these answers. You yourself said that the country's cultural prizes have been awarded for quite a long time, and they are very dignified bonuses. Can you tell me if such errors are going to occur in life, unfortunately, for all of us, even in earlier years? Have there been such embarrassing mistakes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U114	My assessment of how embarrassing this case is is certainly subjective. Since I myself have not been directly involved, this case is, of course, the most embarrassing thing for me. But I know there's been some confusion in the past. All the more so, a thorough review of the entire procedure and a detailed description of the instructions are essential. Too bad this hasn't been done before, maybe this case wouldn't have happened. But in the end, a human mistake can never be ruled out by 100%. I hope that the double-checking mechanisms we are planning will minimise the likelihood of recurrence of this error.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U115	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, How common is it that, in the case of such a nomination, one and the same candidate presents the right number of publishers at the same time? In this case, he was also presented by the children's literary centre and the magazine Starke, a total of eight subjects. Is it more common, or is it an outstandingly broad display?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U117	The practice is so- and return, but it is quite common, because the candidates for the Life Work Prize are always people whose contribution to Estonian culture has been very long-term and widespread. As a result, those who enjoy the privilege of nominating these dignified people are often very numerous. Therefore, it cannot be said that this would have been an exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U118	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U119	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Do you think that there is any way to highlight the proposed candidates or to introduce them more than just naming them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U120	Yeah, it's always worth considering. There was also talk in the Commission about how important this nomination really is. These people, as we have just discussed the previous question, have been nominated by a large number of respected organisations and individuals. Being a candidate for the proposed State Life Work Prize is a big deal in itself. On the other hand, when we discussed this, it was recalled that there have been cases when candidates did not want their names to be made public. It is not always accepted to be a candidate as one of one's commendations, because even if you lose a bonus, you might feel like I didn't get one. I'd rather think the nomination was a tribute to all the candidates. But there are different opinions, which is why this time the Commission did not make any concrete proposals on how to highlight these candidates in any other form or in any other form. Of course, the disclosure of candidates is a control mechanism, but the legislator has also provided it with the idea of valuing the contribution and life's work of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U121	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U122	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Dear Minister, Before making an inquiry, I hesitated very much whether to present it at all and whether it was a question of caliber or meaning that should be addressed in this Chamber of Riigikogu. I very much hope that the Honourable Heljo Pine will forgive us for using his name. What happened to him is a kind of lesson for us here. I really hope that he, with his great humanity and his great heart, will forgive the use of his name. Why, though, did I make this inquiry? Firstly, because the national cultural prize is our most dignified prize. The proverb 'Nine times to measure, once to cut' applies very well to this, and the minister, no official or any human being, much less the candidate, should not experience emotions that make them anxious or even cause bad moods and disappointment. It's such a dignified reward. Secondly, I would not even point out here so much to a particular official, who obviously did just make this small mistake as an accident at work, but I want to highlight the broader context. There have also been reports from several other ministries that officials are not communicating enough, that they are not looking at people, that they do not have time to get into the problem. I would ask whether, in this whole wave of redundancies imposed on officials, when more tasks come and existing tasks need to be reviewed, we should not, however, be dealing with the fact that in our country there are dignified, well-functioning and competent officials who feel that if they are working on any such important task, their competence and professional dignity do not allow such mistakes. The official himself shall exercise control and responsibility. Aren't we in our country's thinning to make another mistake if we keep putting together? On the one hand, the Minister and senior officials are under pressure because they have to lay off, on the other hand, specialists are under pressure because they have to hold on to their chair if they do not want to lose their jobs. Let us learn from this lesson the experience that our country needs, and we all need good professionals who know our profession, good officials and dignified citizens, so that neither the award of cultural prizes nor any other kind of thing can cause mistakes that the whole nation and the whole country suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U123	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U124	We are going to the fifth inquiry, which was submitted on 11 February 2016. The inquiry is about the future of oil shale in the light of the Paris climate agreement and bears the number 151. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, responds to the inquiry. I ask Valeri Korbi, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, On 11 February 2016, 15 members of our group issued an inquiry to Mr Marko Pomerants, Minister for the Environment. The Paris Climate Conference last December set the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050. The long-term objective of climate policy is to become a more sustainable, productive and low-carbon society. The climate agreement will also increase the CO2 pollution charge, which is expected to increase by tenfold by 2050. The contribution of oil shale mining and use to Estonia's GDP is 4%, while generating more than 80% of total Estonian emissions. The Paris Agreement therefore has a strong impact on this sector, and in this light it is necessary to review the future of Estonian oil shale, because oil shale is one of the most polluting energy sources. At the same time, oil shale means thousands of jobs for Estonia's economic engine, energy security and people living in Ida-Virumaa. A few days after the conclusion of the Paris climate agreement, the government approved the National Development Plan for oil shale use until 2030, which sets out the principles and orientations for the development of the sector for the next 15 years. Its first reading has taken place in this Chamber; today the Committee on the Environment has come together for a second time to discuss it. We have decided that next Wednesday this development plan will come back to this hall. There are five questions in today's inquiry that we want answers to from the Minister. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U126	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Environment Marko Pomerants for the Riigikogu's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U127	Hello, Mr President-in-Office. Good Riigikogu! My voice's a little beary. Yesterday, the Rakvere Volleyball Club won the Selver Tallinn Volleyball Club in the Hundred League quarter finals. My vote worked, we won. It's harder to answer you now, but there's no answer behind me. These answers are, in order of questions, as follows: The first question: 'It was already in October 2013 that the Viru Chemistry Group wrote to the then Minister for the Environment that, at the current environmental charges, the taxes paid by the company in 2016 at the price of 90-dollar oil accounted for 81% of the profit before taxes, which is well above the international average of the industry, and therefore the production of oil shale oil is sustainable only at high oil prices. Why has it not been possible to make environmental charges in this sector dependent on oil prices so far? ' In the design of the rates of environmental charges, the need to move towards environmental objectives is assessed both in order to meet these objectives, and in the light of the economic impact of the charges and the overall economic situation. This is particularly important in the case of charges for state resources, which are charges for the use of natural resources. In the case of these charges, the State may not only compensate for the disruption, but also take state revenue, i.e. revenue not allocated to the state budget. As the revenue from the resource depends on the price of the production, it would be possible to make the share of public revenue from the resource evolving on the basis of the price of the production. The Ministry of the Environment supports making the taking of revenue from oil shale dependent on the cost of production. The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the State Chancellery and industry representatives, has commissioned an analysis of oil shale to find an optimal way of taking state revenue. This study will be completed in the autumn of this year. On this basis, the Ministry of Finance can decide how it is best to obtain value for oil shale in the long term and strategically. At the same time, the Ministry of the Environment has commissioned an analysis of the financial implications of the important externalities of environmental use in Estonia, which assesses the environmental impacts of the various ways of using the environment in Estonia as a whole and the financial value of these externalities. In the future, environmental compensation can be planned on the basis of these assessments and, if necessary, on the basis of a change in the design of the environmental charging system as a whole. Both processes together provide us with the most recent knowledge-based basis for developing the best system for both taking public revenue and using the environment (polluting, mining, water abstraction). We consider it important that the questions raised by these studies be answered in a comprehensive way when planning long-term strategic changes. In addition to the long-term view developed on the basis of these analyses, the Government of the Republic has decided to fast-track support for the oil shale industry also due to the low world oil prices. To this end, the Government of the Republic intends to submit a draft to the Riigikogu, according to which, until the beginning of 2018, lower environmental charges would apply to oil shale mining, extraction from quarry and mining sites and disposal of waste from the oil shale industry. According to the original plan, the oil shale resource fee would fall from 1 July 2016 to EUR 0,275 per tonne (the current fee is EUR 1,58). The fees for pumping out water in mining and for dumping waste from the oil shale industry would be at the 2009 level. I would not have said this today if I had answered you last Monday, for example, if the Riigikogu had not gathered. That is the result of the government meeting held last Thursday in Narva. According to the Cabinet's decision, a law amending the Environmental Charges Act should come before you, which could enter into force on 1 July 2016. It would be a temporary law, for a year and a half, provided that the "long view" is in such a state of maturity that a more distant law could be made based on the world market situation. Between you and me, the price of oil on the world market is so poor that the loss of all environmental charges does not help here either, but so the cabinet decided, and this should bring relief to the sector. The second question: 'The Paris climate conference set the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050. What is the government's plan to restructure the Estonian oil shale sector so that Estonia fulfils its commitments at the Paris Climate Conference? ' Yeah, so it was that a high-level UN climate conference took place in Paris from 30 November to 12 December 2015, where a joint decision was taken to make the environment cleaner and the economy more efficient, avoiding the natural disasters associated with climate change and planning activities to adapt to climate change. The Paris climate conference did not bring anything cardinal to our oil shale sector, because Estonia has taken into account the strict requirements of the European Union and is also demanding this from companies involved in the oil shale industry. The European Member States already agreed in October 2014 on common climate and energy policy targets for 2030, while the European Union has also set a long-term target for 2050. A decision has been taken to reduce CO2 emissions in the European Union by 40% by 2030 compared to 1990, and to increase the share of renewable energy and energy efficiency to 27%. The long-term greenhouse gas reduction target of 80% by 2050, as stated in the inquiry, has been agreed only within the European Union, not within the framework of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. The European Union is currently discussing in detail how the 2030 targets will be met. This means that the countries of the European Union, including Estonia, are already planning more stringent requirements and more detailed energy strategic documents than the Paris Agreement provides for. Therefore, the Paris Climate Agreement does not give rise to any additional obligations for Estonia. The objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy set out in the 2030 Climate and Energy Framework have also been taken into account in the development plan for the Estonian energy economy, which will be finalised this year. The Ministry of the Environment is also currently preparing a draft long-term vision document entitled 'Basic climate policy for 2050', which also sets out long-term policy guidelines for the energy economy, which will reduce the direct burning of oil shale and increase oil shale oil production. As a result of this development, CO2 emissions from oil shale use are several times reduced and the efficiency of oil shale processing is increased. In the longer term, CO2 emissions from the combustion of ewe gas from oil shale oil production may be problematic. However, companies have already taken the initiative here, currently preparing to produce 30% of the resulting ewe gas to oil shale gasoline. However, in the 2050 perspective, the remaining ewe gas would also need to be able to be disposed of without CO2 emissions. Again, simply in the context that there are very serious short-term difficulties, which does not mean that entrepreneurs who have planned to move for a long time in this sector do not look to the future. The question is, with what zeal they do all of this, in view of this long view. Question 3: 'From 2020 onwards, we need to start reducing emissions compared to 2005 levels. What effect will this have on our oil shale sector in the coming years? ' Although long-term greenhouse gas emission reduction targets across the European Union are set in order to ensure consistency with 1990, national commitments, including Estonia's emission reduction commitments, are already set in the current period, 2013 National greenhouse gas reduction targets do not apply to large energy producers, as these nearly 50 Estonian companies are part of the European Union's greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme. The trading system is a market-based mechanism under which time-increasing CO2 unit prices lead companies to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases into the air and motivates large energy producers to increase resource efficiency and move towards a more sustainable technological solution that would ensure the reduction of CO2 emissions described above. The fourth question: 'The Stone Development Plan 2016 was written in many parts of the world, that more precise indicator values for 2025 and 2030 will be specified for the future. How will such a development plan help to meet the commitments made at the Paris climate conference if we are not clear on what level we want to reach by 2030? 'As detailed discussions on the setting of specific conditions for meeting the EU's climate and energy policy objectives continue and no one can accurately predict the world market price for oil, the draft National Development Plan for the Use of Stone 2016 to 2030 also states that the analysis of possible future developments in the oil shale sector is taking place in a situation where oil shale production, both electricity and oil, depends much more than in the past on markets and environmental protection restrictions, with changes in both factors being difficult to predict over time. All possible situations and scenarios have been analysed in the research commissioned to prepare the development plan for the 'National Development Plan for the Use of Stones 2016 to 2030', in the Strategic Environmental Assessment Report attached to the draft development plan, and in the development plan and its annexes. It is not possible to analyse something new for the development plan at the moment for the reasons set out above, as the values of key factors such as the detailed environmental requirements of the European Union and the world market price for oil would still remain more precisely undefined, in addition to the impact of technological developments. The implementation of the National Development Plan for the Use of Oil shale in 2008 was completed and by the end of 2016 we will produce a summary report on the results. For the sustainable development of the oil shale sector, it is necessary to continue with the next development plan for 2030. By next Wednesday, as the heir has already mentioned, the Committee on the Environment has planned to send this development plan to second reading in the grand hall of the Riigikogu. Question 5: "What does the government do to prevent a situation where nothing is important is being done to improve the situation until 2030 and then Estonia is going to be quick to meet its 2050 commitments? ' A situation where, until 2030 or 2050, the Estonian oil shale industry will not introduce more environmentally friendly technology and will not constantly reduce the negative environmental impact of the oil shale sector will not occur, as the technology used will have to be continuously developed only in order to meet the European Union's stricter requirements. Otherwise, the oil shale sector could not even function until 2030. At the same time, the new technology will also increase the efficiency of the oil shale industry, which is an essential condition for companies' profits to increase. Thus, companies themselves are also interested in constantly improving the situation and in developing and introducing more environmentally friendly technologies. The task of the Government of the Republic is to develop and write requirements and conditions for the introduction into legislation and strategic documents that ensure the introduction of cleaner technologies and thus the fulfilment of the requirements of the European Union. At the same time, the real situation of the Estonian oil shale industry and the prices of raw materials on the world market must be taken into account. As indicated above, the Ministry of the Environment is currently preparing a draft long-term vision document entitled "Basic climate policy for 2050', which sets out long-term policy guidelines for the energy economy up to 2050, which will continue to be the basis for all strategic documents on the energy economy. The reduction of CO2 emissions from the oil shale industry should be seen in conjunction with developments in the EU emissions trading system, including a situation where the oil shale industry has an unequal competitive position vis-à-vis other producers in the European Union and in third countries. As the reduction in emissions from industrial companies should result from the quota price of the emission trading system, Estonia also relies mainly on this market mechanism to regulate CO2 emissions from its industrial and energy companies. The key word for the oil shale industry to cope with in the future is technological development. No industry can be written off as long as it meets the requirements and conditions established for a cleaner environment and is profitable. If the Estonian oil shale industry, which is specific to the European Union, has been managed so far, it will certainly continue to be able to develop successfully so that our oil shale industry is necessary and profitable for the Estonian state and competitive on the world market. The mid-term crisis must be overcome. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U128	Minister, thank you. You have questions, if I may. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U129	Thanks for the answers. It was very nice to hear everything you said about the national development plan for the use of oil shale. When we talked about the development plan for the years 2016 to 2030, it was said that implementation plans needed to be put together for the development plan. If, on 15 March, we say, they are confirmed, then it is already possible to act on 1 April. How long will it take for the Ministry to put together the implementation plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U130	Thanks! There is a draft implementing plan and I think this was also discussed today at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. The question is, how can we make it financially after last Thursday? I mean, the government's decision on Thursday has an impact on the budget of the Environmental Investment Centre. But again, we have not yet discussed in the government how, in the context of the country's budgetary strategy, all the effects that help the sector and take money out of the state budget could be evened out or what can be done with this knowledge. But basically, we have the next implementation plan as a draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U131	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U132	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The temporary reduction in environmental charges is, to some extent, a way out for oil shale companies and will certainly retain a certain number of jobs. But do you have a mechanism in place to prevent a sudden decline in the income base of local authorities, which in principle depend directly on these environmental charges, in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U133	Thanks for the question! The answer is very simple. If you listened to my answer to your first question, there was that explanation. Indeed, oil shale resource charges are temporarily reduced for a year and a half. All that remains is the part of the resource fee that concerns the budgets of local governments, i.e. the 27.5 cents that are now reaching these budgets, will also be there after this reduction. That part is still there, the state or government has given up their share.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U134	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! As we know, against the background of the decision you made in Ida-Virumaa, the state budget will receive some EUR 40 million less money. How many million euros does the environment suffer, how many million euros can environmental projects no longer be financed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U136	Thanks! At present, local authorities receive a share of environmental charges, the second part is directly for all kinds of fine things in the state budget, the legislator has not set a target purpose for this money, and the third part goes to the Environmental Investment Centre for the realisation of environmental projects. If nothing changes in the procedure of this bill, the current calculation of the reduction of the resource fee to 27 euro cents will remove 10 million euros from the budget in the context of 2017, which is a pretty high percentage of the entire Environmental Investment Centre's environmental programme. This also means that the 2016 budget of the Environmental Investment Centre should take this into account within a half-year period and increase the ceiling for all applications. However, as I mentioned, the government has an opportunity, which we have not discussed at any moment, to wonder whether this distribution, that the remainder of 2009 will go directly to the state budget, will remain that way. So I don't know what to say about that. But if everything stays the way it is, it means 10 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U137	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U138	Good manager! Good minister! In late autumn 2014, the government adopted a package to increase environmental charges over a period of ten years, although the Minister of the Environment strongly opposed both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs. In the first year, the rise was five cents. Was it wise then, in November 2014, to come up with such a thing and not to tie environmental charges to the price of oil?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U139	Thanks! I cannot speak for my predecessors, although it should be continuity. After all, the truth is that pollution charges remained at 2015 levels in 2016 and were not raised. The only, indeed, that rose was the resource fee, which rose by five cents. Now the second part of the question. This commitment to the price of oil has been promoted here over the years, indeed, and also, among other things, by the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. The first time has now come to the point that it will be dealt with in such a way that this system can be completed in 2018. In the working group, we had a debate on whether there could be an option that we would create some sort of temporary floating mechanism. I was then, and I am also opposed to it as Minister for the Environment, for this simple reason, that why this whole systemic approach, if we are now trying to make some sort of temporary floating system in the gang for two hours. It is much easier, both in terms of procedure and in terms of comprehensibility, that environmental charges have a different level than the current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U140	Mikhail Korb, please, your question to the Minister of the Environment!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I want to ask you about resource charges. This money will be allocated to the local authorities on whose territory the extraction takes place. This system is not quite fair because the entire region is under the influence of this mine, somewhere oil shale is being processed, it is being extracted, etc. At some point, it was said that this system would be reviewed for the allocation of resource charges between local governments. There hasn't been much talk about that lately. Is there something going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U142	Thanks! We can watch it this spring when the Environmental Charges Act comes here. But in my opinion, this is primarily a matter of the law of the ground, and it is also pending the decision of the so-called government. It will be possible to search for answers to both questions in the Riigikogu Hall this spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U143	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The fifth question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U144	We are going to the sixth inquiry, which was submitted on 27 January 2016. The question is about e-elections and e-voters and bears the number 141. Reply by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. I ask the representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa, who introduces the inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U145	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice! The number of e-voting has increased considerably in ten years. While only 1.9% of all voters voted in the 2005 local elections, there were already more than 30% of them in the 2015 Riigikogu elections. Everything has gone up, but there are some very interesting details. As you will recall, a survey by the esteemed Marju Lauristin found that since the age of 55, the proportion of people who do not use computers is very high, with 70% in this age group, with 82% in those over 70. At the same time, the uniqueness of Estonia is that people in rural life are very active in e-voting: among the 80-104-year-olds, there were more e-choices in the last elections than among the 18- to 21-year-olds. Rainer Nõlvak has said this some time ago: 'If an athlete finishes above the others, he will receive the applause he has earned, but if he misses his competitors in a whole circle, it is inevitably suspected that he has not taken the doping. [---] In one place, Estonia has managed its e-elections just as successfully, but since other countries have not followed in 10 years, there is a certain risk that our activities will not be understood. ' He proposes that this issue should be discussed much more widely, including with our European friends and colleagues. Seventeen members of the Centre Party, me and 16 others, we've submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Justice to explain to us a little bit how these things work. I'm not going to read the questions. The minister could read them himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U146	Thank you very much. I have the honour to ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Republic of Estonia, who will answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U147	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Question 1: 'The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that elections are general, uniform, direct and secret. How is it ensured when e-voting in e-elections that there is no person standing next to the e-voting person who influences the e-voting person to vote by a particular person or political association? " This issue has also been discussed at the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is of the opinion that when giving contested regulation, the legislator has found an appropriate balance between all constitutional electoral principles in relation to e-elections when considering different principles and the values behind them. As regards the secrecy of elections, the Supreme Court has stated that the most effective way of ensuring the independence of the electorate from any external influence is to allow voting only in the polling station and in the voting booth where the electorate enters alone. It is clear that voting on an uncontrolled environment, i.e. using an internet environment outside the polling district, makes it more difficult to guarantee national voting and secrecy free from external influences. At the same time, the Penal Code provides for penalties for violations of electoral freedom. The possibility for voters to change their vote electronically during e-voting will provide an important additional guarantee of compliance with the principle of freedom and secrecy of elections in electronic voting. A voter who has been illegally affected or followed in electronic voting can restore the freedom of election and the secrecy of voting by re-voting electronically or by means of a sampled paper. In addition to the possibility of expost correction of the vote given under influence, a preventive function is also important for over-voting. If the voter using the electronic means of voting is legally guaranteed the opportunity to change the vote by electronic means, he will be less motivated to influence him illegally. It has also been found in academic literature that in its essence and in its application so far, e-voting has been in line with the principles set out in the Constitution and the Law. Constitutionalism is ensured through compliance with electoral principles. For example, if the vote at the polling station is secured by the use of the ballot booth, e-voting will ensure its virtual election booth, or the possibility of changing the vote. E-voting ensures secrecy. It is the voter himself who decides on the environment in which he will vote and how secret or public his vote is. However, it is important that e-voting does not in any way replace voting with a paper note, which means that there is always an opportunity to vote with a paper note and that e-voting is an alternative. The second question: 'From the end of 2012, electronic voting will be organised by the electronic voting committee. In the draft Act amending the Riigikogu Election Act, the electronic voting committee is placed under the orders of the state electoral service. (This is Bill 160. (U.R.) Do you consider that the abolition of an electronic commission made up of separate experts will not reduce the independence of e-voting when this task is also assigned to the national electoral service? ' The initiation of the bill was discussed at length in the working group set up by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. This has been initiated by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. According to the above-mentioned draft, the organisation of electronic voting will be entrusted to the national electoral service. So far, electronic voting was the task of the electronic voting committee. Under the current law, the electronic voting committee is appointed by the Election Commission of the Republic and it is set up as a panel of experts, each member of which performs specific technical tasks in organising e-voting. However, the Commission's activities are neither collegial nor meeting-based, but specialist and sectoral. However, the preparation and organisation of e-voting is a time-consuming and labour-intensive process and requires constantly coordinated work. According to the draft, e-voting will be the responsibility of the state electoral service as a whole, with the involvement of experts from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu or from outside, including experts who have been members of the electronic voting committee so far. According to the draft, the tasks between the electoral commission of the Republic and the organisers of the elections, i.e. the national electoral service and lower-level organisers, have been distributed in such a way as to distinguish between the roles of ensuring the basic principles and integrity of the elections (including monitoring and appeal procedures) and the roles of organising the elections. The independence of e-voting is guaranteed by the fact that at least three persons appointed by the Head of the National Election Service and at least half of the composition of the Election Commission of the Republic must be present in the electronic counting of votes cast. The integrity of electronic voting is also ensured by a number of alternative methods, such as publicly observed procedures, process auditing and disclosure of the source code of the e-voting system. The Riigikogu Election Committee also has the right, first of all, to withdraw all or part of the votes cast in advance because of a significant breach of law and to call on voters to vote again. Secondly, it has the right to revoke the results of the electronic vote in full or in part and to hold a re-voting procedure where the result of the vote was significantly affected or could have been affected by the infringement. Thirdly, it has the right not to start an electronic vote or to suspend or terminate an electronic vote if the security or reliability of the electronic voting system cannot be guaranteed in such a way that electronic voting can take place in accordance with the requirements of the law. The third question: 'Because of the international study SHARE, it appears that people over 50 years of age in Estonia have a significant backlog in computer use. At the same time, the last Riigikogu elections show that the most popular electronic voters were just people over 50 years of age. How do you justify this situation if, according to an international survey, older people in Estonia experience difficulties in using computers, but at the same time they are the social group that gives the most e-voices in the elections? ' The foundation of the Estonian online voting system is an ID card, a mandatory primary identity document. All ID cards include a certificate allowing remote identification and digital signature of the person. Access to the internet varies, but as long as the electoral network maintains its current density or other methods of facilitating access to voting are found in areas with insufficient infrastructure, the situation is not constitutional. Research has found that the traditional search for strong links between age, gender, nationality, education, income and other such socio-demographic indicators and electronic voting is not intrinsically observed in the elections. The results of the studies show that factors explaining the first participation in e-votes will lose their influence over time and that the group of e-voters will become more similar to voters in the department. In other words, as time goes on, the more complex statistical models can be used to show how e-voters distinguish themselves from "ordinary" voters. Originally, e-voters were more Estonians with good computer skills, who trusted the e-voting system. However, this was only the case in the first three elections when the e-vote was used. Following the 2009 European elections, i.e. after the third elections using e-votes, the impact of these factors began to shrink. Since the fourth elections, we can see that the factors that once explained the participation in the e-vote have no role to play. At the same time, the overall explanatory capacity of the models falls drastically, which also indicates that the population of e-voting players is diversifying and the statistical links are weakening. Moreover, the results of the studies show that diversification is not happening immediately, but that around three elections are needed to allow technology to spread. This clearly indicates that technology is spreading among different users, which should be an encouraging empirical evidence in terms of policy formulation and election organisation. The choices that Estonia has made in implementing the new voting system have been correct and have been well received by the voters. Moreover, the e-vote is no longer exclusive but inclusive as an election method, overcoming social attitudes and behavioural gaps more effectively than has been expected. Question 4: '2015. In the elections to the Riigikogu, 176491 people voted online, which is a record of all time. 162 e-voices were cancelled out of the total number of e-voices, which is 116 more than in the 2014 European elections. What is the reason for the higher number of e-voices cancelled compared to previous elections when the Estonian Election Committee estimates that e-voting is secure in Estonia? If most of the e-voices were cancelled because voters voted in the electoral committee on election day and their last vote was taken into account, how many e-voices were cancelled because of voting in the electoral committee on election day? ' The 162 e-voices referred to in the question, which were cancelled, were all electronic votes which were cancelled by the voter himself, going to vote on a paper note on the day of the pre-vote. The electronic vote can no longer be cancelled or changed on election day. If we look at the number of e-voices cancelled, the total number of people who voted electronically must be taken into account. In the 2015 Riigikogu elections, the total number of e-voters had already been referred to over 170000 persons and 162 votes were cancelled. That's 0.092%. The total number of e-votings in the 2014 European Parliament elections was 103 000 and 46 votes were cancelled. That's 0.045%. The extent to which individuals change their electronic voice with a paper note in one case or another depends primarily on the voters themselves and, both in terms of proportion and in absolute terms, on the extremely small size. For reasons other than the person's own pre-vote, the new vote with the ballot paper was not cancelled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U148	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Because we have the possibility of electronic elections, the international OSCE/ODIHR expert group monitors the Estonian elections. In May 2015, the last report on the Riigikogu elections was prepared. Would you mediate the main views and recommendations of the Group of Experts and of all of us? There are two important issues: firstly, funding political parties and electoral campaigns, including the misuse of administrative resources in elections, and secondly, voting online. How do you assess whether there are more omissions and acute problems in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U150	Indeed, this report was made. A serious problem is the misuse of administrative resources in electoral campaigns, and this problem has also been reflected in the assessment of this international professional election observation organisation. It is clear that the uniformity and equality of elections means that voters must have a uniform and equal voice, but that means that those political forces that compete in the electoral fight must also have equal opportunities in the space defined by law. It must be acknowledged that this use of administrative resources, when we look at these special weights, which have been used by the Central Party in Tallinn, for example, in local elections, has a significant impact on the uniformity of application and there is certainly a real sociological connection to election results. These problems need to be taken into account narrowly in ensuring electoral rights, but also in ensuring the uniformity of the political process, namely in terms of the system of funding parties and the rules for financing electoral campaigns. The Ministry of Justice will analyse and plan to present its proposals to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U151	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U152	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Clearly, sometimes the possibility of voting with a foreign ID card is abused. Are there any statistics on how many votes have been taken on one IP address at a time? Would it not be wise to restrict the possibility of voting on an IP address, for example, because this would limit the possibility of counterfeiting? Secondly, I do not believe in e-voting until another European Union country has taken over our e-voting system. Why does Europe not want to take over?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U153	Thank you. Firstly, I remember that we had a debate in the Committee on European Union Affairs and there the Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu mentioned that perhaps the most extensive head of e-voting was when the person voted back and forth more than a hundred times. Perhaps a person naively thought that a hundred voices were taken into account, but in fact he probably wanted to test the reliability of the system for whatever reason, or tried it on other motives, or just wanted to do it out of boredom. But, of course, the system is neutral in terms of "choice diversity," and that last voice was taken into account. If we set out that there is a possible number of changes, we can change it once, twice or three times, then I would be cautious about it. With regard to the problem of counterfeiting, if a person wants to change his voice several times, for example by changing the opinion of a newspaper article read during the election campaign, because it seems that someone else is more fun now and someone else is suspicious again, then the last voice will still be taken into account when the clock falls. I think that limiting this possibility would call into question precisely the compensation mechanism for ensuring the secrecy of elections, which is what this change of vote is meant for. Why has there not been such a far-reaching reform in other EU Member States? Certainly, Estonia could boldly introduce and promote the virtues of its system. That's what we do. But there is a technical fact to be mentioned. It was a brilliant decision, the last law of Mart Laar's government, before this government fell or was betrayed when the ID card was legalized in December 2001. The fact that an ID card exists actually made it relatively painless and logical for us to use this system. There has been no such thing in many other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U154	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Enlighten me on this issue of the enthusiasm for the use of e-voting in nursing homes and the proportion of electronic elections there compared to so-called ordinary elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U156	Thank you. I do not have statistics on e-voting in social welfare institutions. Certainly, if there is a certain dependency relationship, be it in the Defence Forces, in a nursing home, in a higher educational institution or in some other institution, and if a person is illegally affecting the electoral freedom of other persons there, this is a punishable act of the penal code in Estonia. This cannot be tolerated in any way if any method of voting is used to exert pressure on the voter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U157	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U158	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, This question is therefore a good thing that inspired me to read the report that my colleague Herkel has already referred to. One of the main recommendations of this report is to consider the possibility of increasing the reporting of the online voting system so that voters can be assured that their votes will be read in the same form as they are recorded. Do you think there is a need to change something in the system, or is it a pointless and redundant recommendation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U159	Thank you. I think that the proposals in the report must be taken seriously. In itself, there is a bill that changes the entire electoral order between the first reading and the second reading; there is also this election service thing. I think that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Riigikogu could consider the proposals for this report. All the psychological factors that would strengthen the credibility of the elections are also welcome. My answer to the question of whether the government has a specific legislative novel in preparation in this area is 'no'. I think that the amendment and improvement of electoral rules could be dealt with by Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, seeking consensus, just as the draft law laying down the electoral service has been dealt with in a general positive sense. For years, shows have been made in the form of campaigns and other actions to call e-elections into question. I think, without wanting to be too critical about the logic of this inquiry, that these questions have been answered repeatedly and repeatedly in this form. I understand that the objective is to have some kind of critical credibility on the electoral rules. If there is a turning point in society, if the credibility of the elections has been discredited by continuous and consistent work so that most people seem to be in some kind of trouble, then this could certainly be the reason for the next step to gradually abolish the electoral freedoms that people have been given. So I am not dealing with this discussion as a so-called narrowly constitutional or electoral technique, but rather as a political activite in order to change the electoral system. I also have no illusion as to why this is being done, provided that this could affect the results of the election. However, I have to say that, as has been shown in the studies of the recent elections, the social demographic model generally reflects the political behaviour of the entire electorate in terms of electoral preferences.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U160	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U161	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In my opinion, participation in elections clearly demonstrates confidence in the regime. I don't think it's right that political forces should even suspect whether the elections are ethical, honest or whatever. Of course, however, systems can be improved. This report, which has already been referred to a lot today, is about transparency in reporting. When we went to Southeast Estonia last week, it became clear that the common people raised questions as to why the results would be erased so quickly, or the ability of a person to check or ask some questions and get answers to them would be minimised. Can you answer what these considerations are? Have you thought that this system could be improved a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U162	Thank you. I'm not much of a specialist in the IT protocol or in this technological process, I'm not going to offer different solutions here on the move. But I certainly want to say what is the legitimate consideration of this annulment. I would point out that, in addition to the fact that the elections are uniform and the person knows that his vote does not go anywhere in the trash, the elections must be secret. In other words, if there were to be an understanding in society that the secrecy of elections was not sufficiently guaranteed, figuratively speaking, it would be established that it or that political power was chosen from one computer or another, i.e. that the computers had their own political preferences, then it would certainly call into question the system's demanding constitutionality, i.e. the secrecy of the elections. In the same way, I draw attention to the particular preference of the voter. It is not possible to identify itself if a person does not make any specific signs to his note that his note is in the large bag among other numbers (in the Estonian electoral system, the preferred number should be written for the note). As I said, if it is possible, without questioning the principle of uniformity and secrecy, to create additional psychological guarantees for society and the public in this system, to which this report also referred, these proposals are certainly worth considering.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U163	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! If e-elections are so authentic, why are these electoral methods not used to organise popular referendums? If the ID card is absolutely OK and the security systems are absolutely OK, then we would know very cheaply and quickly the public's opinion, in three or four days the overall picture would be clear. Why does the government not consider such options?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U165	Thank you. In principle, this is certainly an argument in favour of broadening the possibility of referendums in society, particularly as regards resource economics. However, I do not imagine that the possibility of taking part in a referendum would be laid down only by one method, i.e. e-road. It is clear that the electoral organisation must also give people the opportunity to express their will by post and at the polling station. I guess in different countries these models are different. New Zealand voted on the new flag. Only by letter was voted there. People were sent, at least according to the Estonian news reports, three million letters were sent home to answer whether they wanted to maintain the old flag or if they wanted a new flag with a more original design. With regard to referendums, or also to popular polls, the results of which may not be binding on the legislator, I think that this argument for technological progress will also make it possible to think about the different forms of expression of democracy. It is logical and legitimate in every way, as the questioner pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U166	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U167	Mr. Minister! The draft, to which you referred, is obviously initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and concerns the amendment of electoral laws. I think it's bill 160, if I'm not mistaken. Do you know that this is actually written by the people of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is only such a source of comfort? I have two questions about this. One thing is that since these people really want their department to be called service in the future, perhaps they should be met and given more responsibility to the services for their duties. The second question is that if there are specialists in the practical organisation of electronic voting, how many of them should be paid during the mid-term elections and how many during the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U168	Thank you. I'm not gonna give you the bill here. I am sure that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will seriously consider alternatives to the organisational implementation of this matter. It is clear that without sufficient resources, these changes will not be possible. This certainly does not mean that these persons should necessarily be engaged in public service by mechanical means. They can be used as experts on a seasonal basis, on the basis of a contract. Of course, their responsibility for their actions must be clearly defined.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U169	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U170	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! Is the state also prepared for a situation where e-elections should be hit by a massive cyber attack that will render the results completely unusable or otherwise distort them? What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U171	Thank you. I say first of all that we contribute from the best of our expertise to ensuring that this system is secure. But if this attack is really so massive that it distorts the results of the election, then essentially it can be considered that the election results must be cancelled and new elections need to be held. In other words, it cannot be possible, of course, for example, to create the impression through a foreign office that democratic power is being exercised in Estonia by means of some sort of electoral manipulation. This must be ruled out, the best technological expertise must ensure that this attack fails. However, hypothetically, there may be some kind of mass influence or fraud at the polling station. After all, the system is based on the so-called human factor and on the assumption that the employees of the electoral organisation comply with the law impartially, honestly and competently. That is why there is a mechanism of supervision and appeal, which goes up to the level of the Supreme Court, and there is a theoretical possibility that it can lead to the cancellation of election results, either in some parts of the state or in the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U172	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, e-voting is convenient and fast. That's an indisputable plus. But the claim that it is not used elsewhere in the world and we are a step ahead of others is not true, because it has been tested elsewhere, but it has been abandoned precisely because of lack of security. If there is any confusion about reading paper ballots, there is nothing simpler than re-reading them, and the result is here. But how do you think these election observers and the members of the electoral committee can rule out some kind of failure or maliciousness of the system when reading e-voices? Their role is just to look at the screen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U174	Thank you. I can say so much that the technological application of the e-voting system has been repeatedly audited. Obviously, visual observation cannot detect errors in this technological protocol. The starting point for the whole e-voting system is that the system is built up to be hack-proof and operational. In such a case, adequate security shall be ensured that the system is protected against malicious attacks. How can these matters be challenged afterwards if there is a problem? The starting point is that if the e-voting is established on the basis of the procedure in the law, these votes shall be deemed valid under the procedure. If it turns out that there has been a cyber attack or some kind of intrinsic influence, then it will in turn serve as a basis for a possible challenge and for the cancellation of the election results, but our starting assumption is that the system is so secure that it cannot be attacked. But, as I said, the system must be structured in such a way that it is risk-free, so that the possible risk of system attacks also ensures the freedom of election and the determination of the actual will of voters. The appeal procedure also ensures this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U175	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U176	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Every time after the elections, the opposition blames that electronic elections are not certain, the coalition needs to justify itself again, that it is certain and that it is all right. The arguments are constantly the same on the one hand and on the other. I can't get this thing anywhere, which means there's a suspicion and there's still a stain. After all, these electronic elections give quite a small proportion of the votes. If they are simply omitted, what harm is there for the people of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U177	Thank you. This part of the vote is growing in time dynamics. If you ask whether it is theoretically possible that there would be no e-voting system in Estonia, then of course, if the legislator so decides, then the e-voting system will no longer exist. In itself, this decision would not be unconstitutional, but it would certainly not make sense, because it would deprive voters of an important opportunity to express themselves through representative democracy. The fact that there's a doubt in the air, I mean, there's no doubt about anything. This doubt has, in my opinion, been sought over the years as a very clear political action, as I mentioned, to build up in society, not as an electoral technical or constitutional problem, but above all in order to achieve a critical degree of distrust in society, in order to be able to apply for a change in the electoral model, the electoral system, provided that if the e-voting system did not exist in the Estonian state, it could give someone a better political position. But, of course, it is clear that also for political forces, the e-voting procedure places certain responsibility on fair and transparent elections. It is therefore reasonable that most political forces have joined the good practice of e-voting. There is one exception. After all, this good practice of e-voting emerged from a major action when, according to my memory, in the 2009 local elections in Tallinn, the Central Party attempted to organize a mass of collective e-voting tents, which could be interpreted as a provocative attempt to call into question the so-called psychological secrecy of voting. But society did not understand this action and it is positive that it has at least been abandoned as a public cause.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U178	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U179	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. To your claim that human opportunities are diminishing, I would say that there is simply less comfort when you have to go to the precinct to take the election. Every citizen could have an internal responsibility to go to the station on that day to carry out his civic assignment. But what do you think about the possibility that e-voting will take place on the very day of the main election, when other citizens consider it their duty to go to the station, but the e-voting person will do the same at home via a computer?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U180	Thank you. It should be taken into account, as already said in this debate, that the secrecy of elections must also be guaranteed in the case of e-votes. This means that it is possible to change the voice. These time windows, which are between election days, are designed for this purpose. This proposal, in order to change the possibilities for voting in time, can be discussed. It is certainly a matter of political choice. However, in the case of e-election, it must be taken into account that the guarantees of election secrecy, which is the possibility of changing the vote, are not put under attack. As far as it is more convenient for people to choose by e-vote, I also agree that there is no point in flicking, such as what one person or another person uses on the voting platform, somehow depends on quality. But, of course, what's a man's life other than fighting laziness and comfort?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U181	Thank you! Let's move on from here. Mikhail Korb, please! Mr. Minister, there are more questions for you, you cannot leave this position of convenience yet. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, one more question, if I may! The question is not very complex, rather philosophical and fundamental. Certainly e-elections gain more and more popularity, but this system, that the results after counting votes and confirming the results are immediately deleted, is somehow strange. The votes on the paper note are counted several times, but this electronic system, at least it seems to me, is not very transparent and it is not possible to verify precisely how many people still voted by someone, how many votes have been voted, etc. How do you feel that maybe control of this system should be more effective and accurate, then maybe these speculations will disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U183	Thank you. The e-voting system is built on the basis of both the technological and legal best knowledge that exists in Estonia. It has been audited several times. The nature of the system has not given rise to any doubt that, if we have such voting technology, that at one end of the system there are computers in which the votes are entered, and at the other end there will be a neutral election result, just as it will be suppressed by the will of the voters, that result could be manipulated or forged. The international report referred to by Mr Herkel also pointed out above all that additional elements of transparency could be offered to the public there. It is certainly worth discussing what else can be done. However, I would like to stress that, given these attacks on the political motive with which it is desirable to question this system, the state must also think about how to ensure the credibility of the system in the light of such malicious biased attacks. So far, society has considered this system to be reliable. The best assurance of this is that the share of e-voting in the entire electorate has increased steadily in the various social demographic groups. As to whether a person is able to understand how his voice is moving in a pipe, the exact same questions might arise about Internet banking. But the starting point and the assumption is that the system is so audited and tested that it ensures a neutral result also because the transfer takes place correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U184	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. The Minister of Justice spoke here of some kind of show and of the interest of some forces in questioning e-elections. The visit of the Riigikogu delegation to Germany has recently ended. We met there, including me, with a lot of colleagues from the Bundestag. We also had contact with the members of the Bundestag Digital Commission. I took this opportunity and, after meeting the digital committee, I tried to ask my German colleagues why they, the heathens, did not use what we were using, i.e. e-elections. The answer was almost 100% always one: it is not safe, they do not think of it. And this is Europe's "leading country" in the heart of Europe, where 80 million people live! We here, little fleas, there is one million or more of us, we have come quite far in this area; already 30.5% of voters have chosen the last elections of the Riigikogu electronically. But it also made a lot of thoughts. The Minister for Justice referred here to some political parties. I might ask if CDU and SPD are also reactionary parties. However, as a fresh member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I will focus on § 60 of the Constitution, which says that elections are general, uniform and direct, and voting is secret. First of all, I ask how they can be uniform when it is possible to choose either in the booth, on the computer or on the phone. Secondly, you can choose either on the election day or at the time of the long pre-election. Third, if you put the note in the ballot box and then there's the idea that, damn it, I'd really like to take it back, then try to get it back! However, in the case of the e-vote, the withdrawal of the vote is not a problem. Fourthly, on election day and in the booth, there's no election agitation, but on the computer, banners run with candidates' faces and promises all the time. And where's the secrecy here? Why don't you try going to the cabin alone? It's not gonna work. But put the computer somewhere on the table, some hall, anywhere, and there could be a hundred people. What's the secret in that case? Let us look at the executive edition of the Constitution and at what is understood by uniformity or secrecy. In the case of uniformity, we are not talking about the issues I have just told you about, but reference is made to the Council of Europe recommendation of 2004, where uniformity has four meanings, but none of them is what I mentioned earlier. Firstly, only one vote may be cast in the ballot box. Secondly, the system must prevent voters from voting through more than one voting channel. Third, a vote can only be counted once. Fourthly, there must be a secure and reliable method of determining votes. Can I have a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U186	Yes, please! Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U187	This means that when you look at the sane words 'one-size-fits-all' and'secret' and read in the executive edition of the Constitution, which should be understood by uniformity and secrecy, I honestly admit that my mind will be as short as possible. It seems to me that things that, in common sense, can be said about when dealing with uniformity are not spoken about in the commentary on the Constitution. As to secrecy, the following is said: "The most common way of ensuring the secrecy of voting and also the most widely used way in Estonia is the voting booth in the voting room [... ] In electronic voting, the secrecy of voting is more difficult to ensure. " So the questions remain. However, I would like someone to be able to explain to me the meaning of these common and simple Estonian words, which still means 'uniformity' and which means'secretity'. Or is it that the night is the day and the day is the night and that there really is no difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U188	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U189	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I was inspired by my colleague Peter, who has just spoken, to come here. Since I was with him in Germany and the Bundestag, and I met German politicians, I would like to say that perhaps we would not, however, have any reason to take the opinion of German politicians as special digitalist excessively seriously. Let me mention, even if there is no electronic voting in the Bundestag, as we have here, this cannot happen, because not all parliamentarians have their own table, so there is no place to place electronic voting points. Figuratively speaking, green, red and yellow pieces of cardboard are voted on. Reliance on German authorities in digital matters is perhaps not the most appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U190	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U191	Mr President! Peter Ernitsa is right in the sense that the terms'secretity' and 'uniformity' have changed with the introduction of a new method of voting and it is not quite clear what these terms will have in the future. Of course, the fact that both concepts have come up with new aspects does not necessarily mean a reproach for the new thing that has been introduced. In politics, however, the key question is to look at where we have come from, where we have come from and where and how we want to go. When electronic voting was introduced in Estonia, most citizens did not have a personal computer at home, the computer was usually used at the workplace, and we also received and online searches were done either during working hours or after working hours, not with personal hardware. In this situation, there were some major political risks associated with the introduction of electronic voting in Estonia. These are the same risks, which is why one very important political decision was made when Estonia was restored. In fact, political parties are not allowed to sub-organisations in jobs, institutions or factories, as was the case in the Communist Party during the Soviet period, because in this situation, people are most easily influenced by their political outputs. Probably as the fewer people vote on computers at work and more on home computers, the process becomes more politically reliable. But it is quite clear that people who are easily affected, whether by family members, acquaintances, co-workers or superiors, should not even try electronic voting at all, because it is unfortunate for all of us. By now, Estonia has reached the point that about one third of the people will vote electronically, but the increase in the number of electronic voters, as Mr Vinkel told us in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has probably slowed down, and this figure will not increase at the same rate. It seems to increase by around 5% during the period of government. So if we're at 30% now, we'll probably reach 50% in the next 20 years. How far does it go? It is difficult to predict the future, but in terms of the number of extrapolations, both voting methods - paper voting and electronic voting - are likely to remain for several generations to come. Of course, the most important thing to think about is that if something should happen to the electronic voting system, whether it is an internal inadequacy or a malicious foreign attack, the Estonian state must at any moment be prepared to hold new elections, either in the entire spectrum of the electorate or, at least, in the case of those who voted electronically. That's one thing we have to write into the law and take into account. As I said, this principle must be guaranteed longer than we are in this world, probably during the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U192	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U193	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Honourable ministers! Honourable questioners! I believe, however, that the motive for this inquiry is not only that one party, which is very successful in the elections, may not have been just as successful in the electronic vote, but that there are more systematic and important observations here. I also think it is important, as you pointed out in your inquiry, that people who have voted electronically are much older than the logic of other computer use tells us. If that is indeed the case, then it is certainly a matter of reflection. After the elections, I believe that electronic voting was also given in nursing homes and other institutions of this kind, where, just like a large number of perhaps a little helpless older people voted in an electronic way. Yes, it may be a problem, and there may be some way of influencing it, although at the same time there is also an opportunity to change the voice later. But what I want to say is that the problem of manipulation in such institutions and in such people is also completely present in the ordinary vote. It exists in a large number of countries where I have even been to observe the elections. Vladimir Putin's support in the city of Krasnodar was by far the largest in a closed psychiatric hospital. This observation dates back to the last Russian presidential election from me. However, verification is certainly necessary and the reliability of the system is extremely important. The observation that some of the members of the Free Party Group here mentioned about our trip to South-East Estonia last week that people mistrust the electronic electoral system is true. Perhaps this distrust is caused by some other disappointment in the functioning of the Estonian state and not necessarily by the electoral fashion itself, but either with the help of the Central Party or with the help of someone else or without it, this distrust exists in any case. If we want to move forward reliably, we must always act to make the electronic vote more secure, reliable and verifiable. The OECD/ODIHR Group reports are certainly important here, and these views should be noted. It has usually been the case that every time after the electronic elections, an in-depth audit is carried out, stating what to change, how to change and what needs to be changed. Mr Helme asked what would happen if an extensive cyber attack took place. I tried quickly to find this place in the law text. If I am not mistaken, § 15 of the Riigikogu Election Act provides an opportunity to cancel elections and announce new elections if there is a significant violation. But I think that the monitoring of the electronic system exists and it must be very clear in what case it should be used. There's no way we can eliminate the threat. In any case, the Estonian state and the electoral commission of the Republic or the future electoral service of the state must have an emergency exit. I would recommend that the authors of the inquiry, if you have not examined the report of the OECD/ODIHR Group of Experts, be sure to examine it. There are a whole series of recommendations that we should bear in mind, whether it is publicising the audit reports of the online vote and documenting all its stages or clarifying the use of public funds. Indeed, the use of administrative resources for election purposes is stated in the report of the expert group. This concerns, to a large extent, Tallinn, which is led by your party, which has been very acutely and clearly highlighted. This has also been highlighted by the National Audit Office, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U194	Thank you. Mart Helme, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U195	President-in-Office of the Council. Gentlemen, ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, The Russians have an excellent saying that men understand better than women: 'The power is sweeter than a woman. ' We all know that. When we look at Game of Thrones and other great historical dramas, we see what has been done in the name of power. We should be extremely naive if we thought that little fraud is not committed for the sake of power today, if that is possible. Perhaps these are not frauds, but they are organised in a legislative way so that certain results can be tilted. There have been several accusations from this speaker that a party, specifically the Centre Party, would like to go back to the Stone Age and not be able to keep up with new technological inventions. I don't think so. Rather, the question is that some area obviously needs further regulation. I'm basically talking about the same things that Peter Ernits already mentioned, but I'm going to keep talking. One question is that the time for e-elections is too long. In e-elections, it is possible to give and withdraw votes several times. It's not normal. This is something that definitely needs to be corrected, and it needs to be changed. It is possible, as the Minister of Justice said, that a window of time is needed for e-elections to take longer, but it certainly does not have to last as long as it is now. The timing of the primary elections should also be reviewed. This is not so much about e-elections as about pre-elections, which is a little different. I also think that this time is too long. The contradiction and, in my view, the constitutional contradiction already arise because we are banning pre-election agitisation on the day of the elections and, in the run-up to the day of the elections, perhaps also, a day or two, I do not remember exactly right now, but during the e-elections and pre-elections we do not have such a ban or restriction. There is, in my opinion, a very clear contradiction here. So, in this sense, let us not take such opposing positions that some want and others do not want, but let us take it easy and see that the possibilities of manipulating such manipulations, influencing propaganda and tilting the voter are minimised. I think it is our duty as legislators, because it is not likely that most of us will not be in the Riigikogu and politics forever, but we still want to see fair results, even when we are no longer involved in politics. Certainly it is also necessary to mention that you are skeptical or absent, but when Kaja Kallas, who went into political heaven as a comet, received 45% of the votes in e-voices during his first audition, and Edgar Savisaar, who was in politics for 20 years or more, only 9% of the talk about the 2011 Euro Parliament elections, the question arises somewhere in the back of the head, how, if it is not a bit odd. By quoting the missing Sketch Master Baskin, I might say that I have no doubts, but I have reservations. Here these doubts arise, and I think it is up to us, as legislators, to eliminate these doubts. I think it's the government's job to meet us on this side of the road. So I hope that before the next elections, if these issues can come back to the table purely propaganda and they want to beat each other up, we could take off the agenda some particularly sweet smacking issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U196	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U197	Honourable representatives of the people! The Minister of Education urged me to bring my observations before you. First of all, when asked what will happen to the proportion of elections with e-elections and paper ballots, it is certainly reasonable if we consider uncertainty in the future to be both, clearly legitimate voting methods. But surely we need to draw attention to other e-services or e-options, for whatever reason people have introduced them, for convenience or laziness or for some other consideration. I will, for example, make a tax return. A small number of people prefer to fill it on paper, whether on a sentimental or security-based basis, for whatever consideration. Mr Helme wondered how some people could get so many e-voices. I'm surprised how some people can get so many votes on paper. The way these voices are formed and what motives voters are acting is already a social psychological phenomenon in itself. However, with regard to the neutrality and security of this system, I say that no audit analysis carried out at the level of academic technological knowledge has in any way called into question the nature of this system. There was talk of election secrecy, uniformity and equality. These are election principles and must be furnished in a purposeful manner. The objective of the secrecy of elections is to ensure that a person's own decision is free to exercise his or her vote. This is guaranteed both by e-voting and by voting by letter, as well as by voting at the polling station on election day. The exact same criticism that critics make of the secrecy of e-voting could theoretically also be made of the secrecy of voting by letter. After all, the election board sends an envelope to a person, which a person fills out, but he can show it to his grandmother or grandson. A person can still speak in whatever way he or she realizes his or her voice, supposedly truthfully, who he or she voted for. It's man's freedom. What is important is that he has the right to exercise this freedom in such a way that his choice remains his secret, and this secret is guaranteed by the law in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U198	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U199	Let's move on to the next question. As one inquiry was withdrawn by the authors of the inquiry, the seventh question on the agenda is now under discussion. This is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõmme, Ain Lutsep, Külliki Kübarsep and Andres Ammas on 19 January 2016 about the organisation of adult vocational training. It is number 133 and is answered by Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science. I ask Krista Aru, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U200	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Education and Science! The question submitted by the members of the Estonian Free Party is based on our visits to vocational training institutions. When we go to vocational schools, we have seen that the picture is quite the same: almost all school buildings have been nicely fixed, the conditions are quite good, the apparatus and the technology are there. What are they complaining about? There are also quite the same complaints, and the same things: difficulties in finding teachers are particularly difficult to find masters, problems with money, problems with centralising accounting and bookkeeping have come in handy and profitable. The most serious concern is that such good conditions have been created, but the institutions do not think that they are being used optimally at the moment. National training orders have decreased, and in particular adult re-training and further training could be contributed more. The Minister for Education and Research has been asked seven questions, which are quite extensive. But I very much hope that this time the Minister of Education and Science will kindly respond that I have not upset him before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U201	Thank you. I would ask the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi, to answer the question of the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U202	First of all, you upset me when you said there were seven questions, but actually there's eight. What you described may seem like it, but you always have to look into the substance. It has to be recognised that there have been mistakes in the development of vocational education. Very much has been invested in housing and equipment, but the number of students and, no doubt, the number of teachers and their needs are something else, they change over time. VET would probably have had to be built more on traineeships and less on public investment, which will never be able to deliver innovation exactly as labour market needs require. But the first question: 'How and by whom does HTM see the organisation of vocational training for the adult population, including adults with a lower level of education and unskilled skills? ' If these are to be mentioned separately for adults with lower levels of education and skills, there is no doubt that the role of the state is greater than that of the private sector, which cannot be said for the whole of vocational education. The state has 29 vocational schools, three local government schools (Tartu, Väike-Maarja and Tallinn) and three private schools (Pärnu German School of Technology, School of Computer Science and Computing and Estonian First School of Private Cosmetics). These figures may change over a period of time. There are also five state universities of applied sciences in this area and all of them are training adults. Question 2: 'How has the adult population increased or decreased in 2012-2015 in vocational education and training institutions? " In recent years, the share of adults has increased, as has the number of adults. In 2012 there were 6101 adult students and 7933 last year. The third question: 'Do you see the tendency towards vocational training institutions to take up a job as an adult with higher education and what do you think is the real reason for this? ' Maybe it's a tendency to call it a lot. I see no problem with the phenomenon itself, because its scope is relatively small. For example, 142 people with higher education went to vocational training last year. Higher education is always popular as the first option, but often not very practical in the labour market. In this sense, retraining may be necessary. But also simply continuing education, which provides some practical skills for implementing higher education, can be good. A total of 25000 vocational students have about 2000 or 8% of previous graduates and a third of them have completed higher education at least ten years ago, which shows that retraining makes sense when we talk about lifelong learning in the title of our education strategy. The fourth question: 'Why and how has the national training order (GNT) for vocational training institutions changed in 2012 and 2015? ' Orders have decreased as the number of students decreases. Compared to 2012, this year the number of training places is 1872 fewer, with a total of 22000 places. However, some places have not been filled because there are simply no students. Vocational education has unfortunately not reached a high level of popularity, although its share has not decreased. In addition to public training orders financed from the state budget, we will create 8 000 apprenticeships in cooperation with employers over the next five years. It will take EUR 20 million, which is a very large amount, and I hope that the practice will grow out of it, that employers will take over more vocational training. In this case, labour market risks are lower and investment is also more responsive to market needs. Question 6: "How does GNP ensure that there are places of study by county, whether and how the number of school-age inhabitants in the county and the real needs of enterprises are taken into account when submitting the GNP? ' This question is apparently somewhat inspired by the audit of the National Audit Office, if I am not mistaken, but maybe it was presented before. I would be a little critical of this audit at this point. First of all, these administrative boundaries on the labour market are not factual. Rather, we should assess the mobility of workers. The labour market cannot be assessed very accurately within these borders either because they change very quickly and because the location of the job is always well-qualified. We can read something from legal data, but sometimes it doesn't say much about practical action. So I do not agree very much with this criticism, although I understand it. However, there have been political agreements, which have also entered into law, and which have subsequently been reduced to at least one vocational school in each county. This does not mean that every field of study is available in every county, but vocational education is more even. These are compromises that sometimes are not effective. At the moment, we are reviewing vocational education a little more regionally and consolidating disciplines. The working age population has, of course, decreased, and this is a problem in the light of the decisions that have been made so far in vocational education, and time quite rightly illustrates the over-optimism of these decisions. When one of my predecessors shouted in 2006 or 2007 that the period of deprivation in vocational education had ended, it sounds ironic today. It's a party sometimes quite empty, if you look at the financial stakes. Question 7: 'If GNP has decreased in recent years, what is the reason why vocational training institutions have not taken up the task of training the adult population of the EES, even though it is by doing so that VET institutions can contribute to the faster development of the economy? " The question is a false assumption. Adult education has increased, as I said. That's what's growing. This is what we will finance separately, and in 2016 we will offer 12000 people the opportunity to participate. Question 8: "Does the volume of training orders for vocational training institutions determine the need for different skilled workers or is the money available for vocational education limited? How did the substantive funding of vocational education change between 2012 and 2015 (excluding centralisation of accounting and accounting)? ' Here are the limitations of resources. Of course, they include money, but the primary thing is the need for skilled workers and people's desire to learn that we are prepared to re-route resources between different educational fields if these opportunities exist. You cannot force people or businesses to demand this education. In fact, we ourselves do not directly limit this area financially compared to others. The volume of the training order is 56.3 million euros this year, and there is also apprenticeship, as was mentioned. Like in general education, we also bring more money to vocational education by increasing the pay of teachers. In 2016, the payroll will increase by 6.4%, but the amount of money varies from one field to another. The basic cost of the training facility will increase this year from EUR 1388 to EUR 1565. The total amount of money allocated to vocational education and training has decreased due to the end of structural support. As I have already said, this funding was not the most successful, one way or another, it was brilliant, but it was undoubtedly too optimistic in terms of the future. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The total investment volume in 2006 was 162 million euros. Nothing comparable to this needs to be done in vocational education and training; rather, this area should be more closely linked to businesses. That could be the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U203	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U204	Good manager! Good minister! I accept the claim that 142 graduates have gone to vocational school. I want you to characterize them a little bit. What higher education institutions have they come from, where they probably offer specializations that don't have a big application? Is this 142 the average level of practice per year? I know quite a few people with higher education who have gone to vocational school.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U205	Thank you. I don't have that data on hand right now. But in general it doesn't necessarily mean bad for these higher education institutions. One observation here was that perhaps a third of these people have graduated from higher education ten or more years ago, so it is simply extremely reasonable to acquire a new specialty. Sometimes this new specialty combines with an old one, learns about IT or accounting for something that already has an application. But there is always a certain percentage of people in vocational education who study for learning, in a hobby's way, without a greater link to the labour market. You can't always put a certain sign on it or evaluate it, you just have to admit that people like to learn and develop. Sometimes it has to do with their hobby, sometimes it's a hobby and a pastime. The state cannot directly deny such wishes, but it does try to be more precise about the needs of the labour market. So some efficiency is always in vocational education, it has to be kept to a maximum, but it can never be 100%.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U206	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U207	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. Will the 29 vocational training establishments that belong to the state still be subject to some kind of investment support or will their reorganisation and upgrading proceed? At present, many places have excellent equipment, but in a five-year cycle, it can all grow old. So what happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U208	Thank you. There is no point in planning a separate flow of investment here, the base cost of the place is conditional on investments being included and schools setting their targets. But such an investment boom cannot be continuous. This cannot, in principle, be accurately adapted to the needs of the private sector, either regionally or sectorally. The private sector makes its own decisions, often by taking risks and realising its own ideas, which it is impossible to plan. At the same time, we have an OSKA system in place that needs to identify and predict the need for labour. We, along with our employers, are trying to anticipate and plan all of this, but it is clear that there is a gap. To say the least, society cannot build its own parallel factories where one learns and another produces. However, these decisions are made from a different logic and from the perspective of different knowledge and different planning. So the development of vocational education must be more closely linked to the labour market and to businesses themselves. Apprenticeships are something that I think could be the future of Estonia. The general attitude should change so that young people are really paid to work alongside learning. At one point, it will also return money to the company, and it will certainly produce labour. Perhaps there will be less talk about how we are terribly short of working hands and need to be carried in somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U209	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U210	President-in-Office of the Council. Honorable Minister! Where are teachers and masters of vocational training institutions being prepared today? The second part of the question: are they remunerated on the same basis as teachers in general education schools or on other principles, for example, the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U211	Thank you. They are prepared in different areas and will certainly recruit practitioners. I'm not trying to give you a full picture. I don't have it ready. However, the method of remuneration is somewhat different and the requirements are also different. Schools of general education require a master's degree, which is a very high requirement, and vocational education does not have this requirement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U212	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U213	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, At the beginning of your presentation, you said that the number of teachers and students will change in time, and you also referred to changing times in connection with the audit of the National Audit Office. My question concerns the first part of your report. You said that the development of vocational education should have been based on internship. What exactly did you mean by that? So what happened wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U214	Thank you. A pretty perfect model, which would necessarily fit and be the only one to know for sure, hasn't been figured out anywhere. But I didn't offer pure criticism or any model. I have already mentioned that the training of workers at the workplace would probably have been much more effective, in many cases it would have ensured better employment and better involvement in the profession than the shininess and furnishing of large vocational training institutions with expensive equipment, which, after all, is actually getting old over time. When it started, it seemed extremely promising. But we were able to avoid a drop in the number of vocational students, we were able to maintain the level of popularity of this learning, but we were unable to create significant numbers of learners. If it were to be tied to work, I believe it would be more popular. But different countries offer different solutions. I like what I heard in Germany and what I've read about. It's tradition. The Germans do not say that every day there must be a new plan and an idea, but they do things traditionally, they have good traditions, and they do so in vocational training. It means an apprenticeship system, so the companies are hiring young people who are going to make money back to the company at some point. They are not being held there by force because it is known that if these young people choose another job, the company will be replaced. But really, in industry and service, all companies know that they have to grow up. The part of the national education system is limited in the amount of this study.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U215	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Like Mr Lutsep, I remembered when you said that you should have been more focused on practice. I guess that's absolutely right. You also had a critical remark that a great deal has been invested in the shell and equipment. I therefore ask whether there are small or no buildings that have previously been unthinkingly invested in, and what is the future of these buildings. You have alluded to this several times, but maybe you'll tell us exactly what your proposal is for the acquisition of the equipment that this is the right way to go. They really age quickly and maybe they are not in effective use either. Should equipment be purchased, leased or put to the use of undertakings, so that these companies can serve as a basis for traineeships?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U217	Thank you. This last option, the introduction of entrepreneurs, would be very nice. This already indicates a direct link with the economy in vocational education in general. After all, this real estate development was very massive in Soviet times. True, there were more learners then, but our republic still inherited a system where the need for consolidation was obvious. This has been done gradually, but in this period of large investment, too, redundant investments were made in houses that perhaps did not deserve it. In terms of equipment, investments were also made ahead of time. Now that the time has passed, the companies are catching up or sometimes passing by, and we are facing a new problem. These decisions will in any case require serious consideration. I cannot give you a generalised level of response now, but the internship cycle is clearly catching up with the national teaching cycle, and the investment logic should obviously be different in the future. But I'm really not ready to give you any medium or practical examples right now. This is my sense and conclusion, let's say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U218	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U219	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Having visited Kehtna, Väimela and Vana-Võik, I can say that creating a learning environment is very important in order to motivate people to study in one place or another. You yourself said that vocational training has not gained the popularity we have wanted. Have you ever wondered in the ministry what the methods could be to get students into vocational school anyway? I have another question. Vocational education centres have established competence centres which are largely based on European Union funds. The opening of the new budget period has caused many problems, and the measures cannot be opened in time. Are you familiar with this issue and what you have done or are doing to make this opening go smoother?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U220	The competence centres are not directly within my competence, but vocational training belongs. After all, the tools for increasing attractiveness are also a nice learning environment, as you said yourself, and certainly proud equipment. We simply cannot update these devices all the time and adjust them accurately to the needs of the economy, but also to local needs. Some of this vocational education also tends to be related to local life, which is reflected in the ideal that vocational education is available in every county. Actually, schools fight a lot for customers. We are trying to make internal consolidation so that duplication is less, the existence of lecturers is guaranteed and the groups are met, so that this matter looks more effective. We are also trying to link vocational education to general education, sometimes we have used joint management here, as is currently the case in Hiiumaa, and sometimes common real estate, such as Järvamaa. This creates more synergy and hope for learners. I think it's gonna work out. We provide VET-based general education schools with electives that are not so well equipped for general education, but which make upper secondary school education more attractive and, on the other hand, through the general level of upper secondary school, we raise the level of general education in vocational education. All of this will, I hope, have an impact on the popularity and competitiveness of the sector in the eyes of the learners.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U221	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U222	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I imagine that schools will probably offer specializations for refresher and retraining that their base will allow. But perhaps you will enlighten the links in this triangle, where there is a school, an entrepreneur and a state, so that the retraining that schools offer is really needed. Are there any links here, say, between the state and businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U223	Thank you. There are connections. We have very close links with business organisations or employers' organisations. This work will take place in several committees. We have wider links with the non-profit sector and there are councils at vocational schools that involve entrepreneurs or employers more generally. They'll give us better information. But the attitude in Estonia is really not what could be. It is believed that the state still needs to build a parallel economy where it can prepare the workforce that an entrepreneur or employer with smart and inventive ideas will have to take, and the state should anticipate it all. Although cooperation is good, I still think that what we do in apprenticeships is much more practical and more effective, because it guarantees stronger professional fidelity and more employment, and also helps to improve the structure of the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U224	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U225	Mr President! Brave representatives of the people! Minister, thank you for your substantive answers. Now, tonight, I want to refer to Jaan Tõnisson's words in 1920. Jaan Tõnisson, who was Prime Minister in 1920, said very correct and golden words that vocational training must create the wealth of our national economy and higher education, but our creativity and success. At the time, there were ways to promote vocational education and training, much less, less equipment, not even houses. Where did vocational training take place? Vocational training took place in life. The Tartu telephone factory had one large centre for vocational training, the first Kose mines had another centre, etc. So if we want vocational training to come back to glory and become what it needs to be for the national economy and the people in our country, it must be seen as a value. I think that's the first thing. We forget that it is the things, the values and the palaces that really help to put many ideas into practice. The second thing is that, here, I certainly agree with the Minister that the association of vocational training and the interaction with work, real working life, must be a natural thing. There is no way that learning is separate and working separately. It is probably possible to create this interaction and association. What would be needed for the further development of current vocational training institutions? If possible, the cost of the entire curriculum must be taken into account and certain specializations must be brought to a very good level in the counties, whether it be an IT field in Viru County, wood technology in Võrumaa and Põlva County, etc. There are different possibilities. They must be negotiated. Vocational training must be given a dignified place in Estonian education and already in the national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U226	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. We're done answering the seventh question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U227	Let's keep going. Today's eighth question has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Korb, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassiliev, Jaanus Karilaid, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Rein Ratas, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Esemaa, Oudekki Loone, Valeri Korb, Kersti Sarapuu, Peeter Ernits and Dmitri Dmitrijev. The inquiry is about the situation in Ida-Virumaa and is presented to Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U228	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, a few weeks ago, perhaps a month ago, we submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. The text of the inquiry is as follows: In mid-January, Viru Chemistry Group announced that it has decided to preserve oil oil mills working on Kiviter's technology due to the continuing fall in oil prices. The decision leaves 500 people unemployed, every fourth employee of the company. Last year, too, there were many redundancies in Ida-Virumaa, both Eesti Energia and Nitrofert reported redundancies. As a result, 6540 people were unemployed in Ida-Virumaa at the end of last year, making the registered unemployment rate 10.1%. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas considered the concentration of 500 people at the Viru Chemistry Group factory in Ida-Virumaa as a personal blow to these people, but not a security risk for the region. He confirmed after the notice of redundancy that there are 300 vacancies in Ida-Virumaa and 9,000 vacancies across Estonia, so the focus must be on personal and not economic solutions, as a possible regional tax credit. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure disagreed with the Prime Minister's opinion and has offered a number of changes to the tax system and burden. It has to be said that certain steps have been taken. Viru Chemistry Group has repeatedly and forcefully explained its concerns to the country. As early as 2013, the Viru Chemistry Group sent a letter to the Minister for the Environment, which pointed out that the taxes paid by the Viru Chemistry Group in 2016 are 81% of the profit before taxes when the price of oil is 90 dollars per barrel. The average international level of the industry is 39%. The government was also warned that the Viru Chemistry Group is in a situation where oil shale oil production is sustainable only at high oil prices due to high environmental charges. We asked the Minister four questions and we ask them to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U229	Please answer the question by Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U230	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! As usual, I read the questions and answer them according to my abilities. The first question: 'What steps have you taken to improve the economic situation in Ida-Virumaa? ' I'm going to name a few keywords, so right from the beginning it's better to watch what I'm talking about. First of all, I will talk about the most important steps that have been agreed upon. First, additional investment in industrial parks. Last year, I asked the leaders of industrial parks to make a list of things that should be done to create jobs in Ida-Viru County faster than planned. The first thing on this list was investment and self-financing for it, including the opening up of the euro money measure. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance must be thanked for doing so quickly, and today this measure is working. From the state budget, we applied to the Ministry of Finance for an important priority and we were able to allocate an extra EUR 700000 to make investments. These steps meant that job creation has come forward in time. The aim was to create 4400 new jobs by 2021, which will lead to this target being met one year or two earlier. For everyone to understand correctly, these jobs are still created in private companies, for whom we create the conditions. There's a lot of interest. I'm stressing it to ruin the day of those who spread other stories. The last time I visited industrial parks was Thursday and tomorrow I will meet with representatives of industrial parks with trade unions in the field of energy in Ida-Virumaa. Secondly, allowing statistical trade. The government took s. A decision to allow Narva Power Plants to participate in the international market for renewable energy, allowing all renewable energy producers to participate in the potential export market, was taken at the meeting of the cabinet on 14 January 2004. It was agreed that the sale of Estonian renewable energy statistics should be preceded by an analysis of the impact on the Estonian timber market and other sectors. Statistics trade does not pay a cent to the Estonian consumer; renewable statistics are paid by the country of the European Union that buys it. However, this means getting tens of millions of euros in Estonia. In the case of one point-hour, which is not at all the ceiling of opportunity, more than 2,300 jobs are created in forestry, using low-value wood, forest waste for statistics. Statistics trade is possible as of 2017. I hope that those who have expressed concern for Virumaa in the Riigikogu will not begin to torpedo the procedure of the draft, but, on the contrary, will shoulder it and we will do it together. Thirdly, the most recent thing, i.e. changes in oil shale resource charges and the development of a system of prices linked to the world market. At the Government's 3 March departure session in Narva, a fundamental decision was made to reduce the resource charges for the use of oil shale. The decision is based on the idea that the fees paid for oil shale should be linked to the world market price of products, let's say in terms of simplification, to the world price of oil. The Government decided to change the resource and environmental charges from 1 July 2016. The aim is to set the mining fee at EUR 0,275 per tonne. Sector-specific environmental charges will be reduced to 2009 levels. Decisions have an impact on the oil shale sector of over EUR 40 million. Fourthly, the government supported the idea of the Minister for Health and Labour to restart or create a job creation measure. The job creation measure provides support to an entrepreneur who recruits at least 20 employees at a time. The State shall reimburse him 50% of the gross wage cost, but no more than the minimum wage of two. The allowance is paid for up to one year, but no longer than the end of 2017, no permanent paid job must have been recruited in the last six months, the address of the job must be in Ida-Virumaa and the persons recruited with wage support must be registered at the Ida-Virumaa unemployment fund. The list that has been made or is being carried out may still be continued. For example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications cooperates with the Ida-Viru County Government and local entrepreneurs to ensure that the state subsidised public transport connections meet the needs of entrepreneurs. To conclude with the first answer, a few more words about money. Between 2007 and 2013, Ida-Virumaa received EUR 308 million from the structural funds, less than Harjumaa and Tartu County. Of this amount, over EUR 40 million went to support the labour market and adult education, and this money was slightly more than in other counties on average. A total of just over 2 000 euros was received for each person in Ida-Viru during this period. Even in the current period, Ida-Viru County is the first in terms of funding for the competitiveness measure, and it is likely to be among the first to look at the euro instruments as a whole. There are still activities and plans; this list is in no way exhaustive or exhaustive. The second question: 'When do you think the price of an oil barrel can be linked to the resource and environmental charges of oil shale? ' The first change should take place by 1 July 2016, which I have already talked about. The next phase is the introduction of a new comprehensive charging system. The sooner it happens, the better. The preliminary assessment is that in 2016 and the first half of 2017 this can be done with business and can enter into force by 2018 at the latest. If it's done faster, it's good. Discussions on the charging system are ahead, but I can say that, if not all, in most countries of the European Union where oil is produced, fees are linked to the value of the product on the world market. Question 3: 'The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has also discussed the temporary deferral of environmental charges for companies in Ida-Virumaa. How soon are we going to legitimize this timing? ' We also discussed timing in the government, but given the circumstances and the end prices of products, we chose a more vigorous approach to reducing the charges until the new tax system was completed. The timing would already mean a build-up of problems today, but the reduction of charges would rather mean that the price of assets and products on the world market would be based on it, and the price would be collected on this basis. I stress here one very important point that entrepreneurs constantly repeat and everyone perceives in Ida-Virumaa. The future of the oil shale sector depends on the price of products on the world market. It's a dominant. At a difficult moment, the country can estimate the prices to be collected when the world market falls, but the world market price for oil and oil is not changed from Estonia, and oil countries around the world, from Norway to our neighbours to the east, are in a similar situation. The fall in prices will have an effect. We have a paradoxical situation in the economy. If Ida-Virus is a problem and a serious problem, then in other parts of Estonia, the low price of oil is rather good news. If the price is lower, everyone will have more money for consumption. Question 4: 'You have promised to create nearly 4400 jobs in Ida-Viru County through industrial parks. How many of these promised jobs have been actually created today? " I have acted for it, but I hope you will, too. The Centre Party, which submitted an inquiry, has dominated the region for years and should rather ask itself what has been done and what is happening. I think you should keep your fingers crossed and ask whether you can contribute to the creation of jobs as members of the Riigikogu. There are possibilities, I'll tell you. But to make it very specific and, as has already been said, to properly ruin the day for those who claim that there are no interested parties in industrial parks and there is a breeze, I will read you the figures. There are four companies operating in Narva logistics and industrial park with 265 employees. Through the business incubator of Ida-Viru industrial areas, 30 companies have started operating in Estonia, with more than 250 jobs there. The client portfolio of the Narva project has 735 jobs in 14 companies. Here I am conservatively referring only to those who have either a deal or a pre-contractual agreement. The situation in Jõhvi is the same: 685 jobs in 12 companies. This includes transactions carried out together with the construction period and also the contracts under negotiation. Kohtla-Järve has 440 jobs in three companies, 200 jobs in Kiviõli in six companies. In particular, therefore, 2575 jobs have been created or created through the Ida-Viru County Industrial Areas project. Industrial park is established by the state and operates in conjunction with local government business organisations, such as the Chamber of Commerce. Relations and cooperation with the unemployment fund are very good, and I also very much welcome from my experience, because there is an active attitude and a rapid reaction. For example, on March 15 there will be a work fair in Jõhvi. So much has been done, but much remains to be done. In this Chamber too, it is necessary to choose whether to be part of the solution or the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U231	Thank you. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U232	Good manager! Good minister! You were also a member of the government in late autumn 2014. The government then decided to set environmental charges ten years in advance and not to tie them to the world oil market, although already three years ago the VKG and Eesti Energia spoke strongly that this should be done. Why was such a decision taken in November 2014?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U233	Thank you. I have to fix you. Although it may seem that I was a member of the government at the time, I have to reveal the secret that I wasn't. However, in 2014, the government adopted a decision signed by Keit Pentus, Taavi Rõivas and others. I would remind you that there is a government regulation that states that by 2017, a resource pricing system will be developed that depends on the final price of products, which is expected to enter into force by 2021. That decision was made at the time. The execution of this decision has now been brought forward. But let us be honest that, years ago, businesses did not foresee that prices would fall like this on the world market, nor did anyone else. At that time, it was foreseen that this system would be developed with a longer apex, and now it will be done more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U234	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U235	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! Not all respondents, for example in the media, have taken a clear positive view of statistical trade. How would you object to those who consider the trade in statistics to be unethical in the light of the decisions of the Paris climate conference?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U236	Thank you. In the case of the sale of renewable statistics, this certainly does not contradict the Paris decisions either. Estonia has met or achieved its objectives in the field of renewable statistics and renewable energy. This means that we can help other countries with this. I don't see any ethical problem here. From the perspective of our country, this is still an opportunity that will cost our consumer nothing, actually bring in export money and create jobs in forestry. One point hour creates basically more than 2,300 jobs, and the Narva power ceiling alone is more than three sharp-hours. I think that, in the event of success and transactions, it is more of an export source, which also creates jobs, particularly in Virumaa. I think this is an expected economic step.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I very much welcome the change in resource charges due to the fall in world market prices. I just don't know why we've been thinking for so long, and I haven't started doing it before. It was a long time ago. You also responded very well to the last question concerning jobs in the industrial park area. Would you like to clarify a little more about the profile of the companies there, which are the main sectors of activity and which businesses are still coming there? The second part of the question is whether such an increase in industrial areas should also take place in South-East Estonia in the view of the government and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. For example, I was introduced last week at Võru County Government to the four regional industrial areas developed there. Surely there is also a great need for such a thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U238	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U239	Thank you. In answer to the other side of the question, I believe that these people are communicating with my colleague Liisa Oviir, who runs it from all industrial areas. I don't know exactly how far they've come, but I'm sure they'll be in touch with each other. As far as industrial park customers are concerned, I can quite accurately describe to you what the profile of these companies is. Companies operating in Narva have created 265 jobs. There are two logistics centres, a company in the plastic industry and a chemical industry. Among the larger companies in Narva are metalworking companies and electronic equipment manufacturers. The Jõhvi is represented in the metal industry, sewing industry, business service, logistics, timber industry. In Kohtla-Järve, the chemical industry and the production of construction materials are carried out, and there is also a timber company. Stone oil has a timber industry. If there's any particular interest, they can all be described. Some companies have transactions and specific construction periods in place, some have contracts, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U240	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have brought quite an interesting bill. They're really very nice and beautiful, if that's the case, but as far as I'm concerned, for example, the Stone Oil Industrial Park doesn't work yet, there's only land there. You mentioned this number, but I couldn't see how many jobs were created there. Who are these people who work there if it's just a field right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U242	Thank you. I repeat. If you've been in contact with people in industrial areas, that's what you've certainly or hopefully done, but if you haven't, you'll probably still be in contact with them, then you know how the process is going. First, investments are prepared and made, before they are communicated with the company, then a contract is made and the company has two or three years to build. So if you go there, you'll see that some places have construction, some places have a contract and some places have planning. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U243	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U244	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Thank God that the state's steps at government level have been directed towards Ida-Viru County in recent years. I liked your report. You said, however, that local government leaders have been from the Centre Party. What I'm trying to say is that the state representation used to be county government-level from the Patriotic League. The same is now: before the Reform Party, after the IRL. They are responsible for what is happening now in Ida-Virumaa. I suggest you don't stab us next time. My question, however, is this: do you really think that such one-off injections of money after the government's move to Ida-Virumaa will change the situation? You're talking about technology parks, but they still need to be created, and it's gonna take two or three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U245	Thank you. That is why I have read some of the measures to you, because it is possible to deal with statistical trade, for example, from next year. That means over 2,300 jobs in forestry. However, with regard to reducing resource charges and linking them to the world market, to the value which is currently the price of products on the world market, this will provide immediate relief for companies. It is a system of charges that, once again, will not solve the problems of the world oil market, but it will certainly give companies the opportunity to endure for a long time. This is not only a matter of today, it is also a question of the future. When it comes to industrial parks, as is generally known in this county, new businesses are certainly needed so that there is no dependence on one sector when there is some kind of crisis. This still means changing the structure of entrepreneurship. Yes, indeed, it will take some time. Hundreds of new jobs have already been created, but there are more. Of course, it has to be dealt with constantly, and I am not undermining its importance in any way. But if you saw a stunt here at the Centre Party, I can say something nice about you. The men of the industrial parks I have spoken to have said that they have very good cooperation with the municipalities. It's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U246	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Here a little criticism was made of the local authorities who in Ida-Virumaa may not have done enough of what would have been necessary for the development of the region. I say so much that in 2009, the Development of Industrial Areas of Ida-Virumaa Foundation was formed. The state lands in both the Kiviõli and Kohtla-Järve regions, however, were not received from the state until a few years ago, i.e. we simply sat and waited for the decision of the Ministry. In future, bureaucracy could be reduced slightly and the process accelerated. This foundation was created for one reason only: it was not the task of the local government to do business and we could not otherwise get the land. But here's the question. If these environmental charges are now being deferred, is there a solution to a situation where local authorities will not receive the revenue they have received in the near future? Is there any way to level their budgets?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U248	Thank you. There were several questions and some arguments. I'm trying to answer them with strength. First of all, I say in a very simple way, this part of the oil shale resource fee that is received by local governments will remain due. This means that the budgets of local authorities are unlikely to give rise to such problems. These budgets would be very problematic if the government did nothing, because there would also be a reduction in consumption and life. Secondly, as land transfers had been slowed down, job creation was delayed. I agree with that, I know that. But if I have been able to communicate with the leaders of industrial parks, I have asked what we can do to speed up this pace. I have listed for you these measures which will help us to do this more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U249	Thank you, Minister. You have answered all the questions properly. So, do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. So we have also answered the eighth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U250	Let's keep going. The ninth question is the question submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Ernitsa, Toomas Vitsut, Mailis Reps, Kadri Simson, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Enn Esmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Rein Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaare, Anneli Oti, Jaanus Kariladi, Aadu Black and Viktor Vassilyev to the Minister of Economy and Infrastructure Kristen Michal. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U251	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Our questioning this time concerns the rail sector and its future. The state-owned railway companies Eesti Raudtee and AS EVR Cargo ended last year with losses of 9 and 3 million euros respectively. The volume of EVR Cargo last year amounted to 11.6 million tonnes, which remained below the volume of 4.2 million tonnes in the year before that, i.e. 26.6%. This year, EVR Cargo is forecasting a 5% drop in transport capacity as the transport of petroleum products continues to decrease due to increased competition. A total of 28 million tonnes of goods were transported by rail in Estonia last year. Last time, so few goods were transported in 1991. Cargo turnover was the smallest in the history of Estonia that regained independence last year. Economic sanctions against Russia are partly responsible for the large drop in trade volumes, but the people of the sector also see the government's lack of transit policy as the reason why we have transferred a very large proportion of the potential capacity to neighbouring countries Finland and Latvia. A study carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers, an international audit firm, found that the Estonian transit corridor has become the most expensive compared to the direct competitors of Latvia and Finland, which has a significant negative impact on the competitiveness of the Estonian transit corridor and contributes to a further decline in freight volume. According to a previous study by PricewaterhouseCoopers, the direct contribution of the transit sector to Estonia's GDP is 6% and indirectly 16%. From 1 January of the previous year, the use of specially labelled light fuel oil for the carriage of passengers and goods by rail is no longer permitted. This decision gave an example of an increase of 8 to 11 per cent for EVR Cargo's customers. In a situation where direct competitors in the neighbouring countries of the Estonian transit corridor have marginally adjusted transport prices, such a sharp change in tariff affected the entire transit sector in Estonia. On all of this, we have four questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U252	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U253	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Once again, I'll read the questions and then I'll answer them. The first question: 'Auditor company PwC, according to a study, a 10% drop in freight transport volume means a deficit of 80 million euros in the state budget for the Estonian state. How has the government reacted to the drop in freight transport capacity? ' The reduction in freight transport has led to the need to support AS from the state budget of Eesti Raudtee. With the additional budget for 2015, 5 million euros of state budget support was allocated to AS Eesti Raudtee. However, quite one cannot claim that a 10% reduction in freight transport would automatically lead to a deficit of exactly EUR 80 million in the state budget. The assessment must take into account, in particular, which groups of goods fell in volume, the flexibility of companies in terms of cost savings, etc. The second question: 'Despite the shrinking volumes, freighters still pay a very large proportion of rail charges. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications planned to change the methodology for rail charges from 1 June last year. How far is the change in rail charges and how will the change improve the situation of freight carriers? ' The draft on the method of charging for the use of railway infrastructure will shortly go to an interministerial coordination circle. The new methodology will be implemented in the December 2017 scheduling period. The transitional period is necessary as the charge for use must be fixed and published more than one year before the start of the timetable period. Therefore, on the basis of the new principle, the fee will be fixed as early as this year for the scheduling period starting in December 2017. The change in the charging methodology gives flexibility in pricing, where price tolerance can be taken into account for each particular segment of the market. This should, in turn, allow groups of goods to be attracted to the railway, for which the current rate of charge cannot be paid. Question 3: 'Ahti Asmann, Chairman of the Board of Estonian Railways, considers the outdated methodology for calculating railway charges to be the main problem in poor railway conditions. In order to support the Estonian railway, Asmann estimates that some 65 million per year are needed. According to him, freight transport costs 41 million passengers, 4 million passengers and 20 million passengers are missing. How do we plan to ensure the maintenance of rail infrastructure? " First of all, there have been changes here too. The Chairman of the Board of AS Eesti Raudtee is currently Sulev Loo, not Ahti Asmann. As regards the financing of AS Eesti Raudtee, the Railway Act pending before the Riigikogu provides for an obligation for the state to ensure a balance between the revenues and costs of the economic activities of the public railway infrastructure operator. The expected loss of Estonian Railway for 2015 is 6.5 million euros, of which the state has covered 5 million euros with the state budget support for 2015. The 2016 budget shows a loss of EUR 8,5 million. Thus, the accumulated deficit for 2015 and 2016 is EUR 10 million, which will have to be covered by the state budget if there are no changes in the volume of goods. In addition, it should be mentioned that the minimum investment level for Estonian Railways is 31 million euros per year, while the actual investment level of Estonian Railways has been less than 15 million euros in the last two years, or more than twice. In the previous period EVR Infra was invested EUR 85.0 to 90 million, the exact amount will be found later, as one project is still open. The government plans to support AS Eesti Raudtee with 75 million euros in four projects during the funding period 2014-2020. These projects are rail repair on the lines of Tapa-Tartu, Tapa-Narva and Keila-Keila-Paldiski and the replacement of the traffic management system in the western direction. Question 4: "What future does the government see for EVR Cargo and the Estonian railway sector as a whole? " An analysis of the consolidation of state-owned infrastructure companies is underway. Depending on the possibilities of the government office, it is planned to introduce a proposal for a group into the government in March, after which the establishment of the holding company can begin. The most important positive impact of consolidation is the targeted sale of the Estonian freight corridor, which requires coordination of the activities of AS Eesti Raudtee, AS EVR Cargo and AS Tallinna Sadam. The holding company is a strong partner representing the whole sector, able to make operational decisions and offer a single price for the whole logistics sector in terms of groups of goods or transport sections. In addition, cross-group governance contributes to greater financial capacity, creates the possibility to improve internal control and supervision systems and provides better career opportunities for employees within the group. In the freight transport sector, existing railways should aim at maintaining at least the current volume in the long term. It is clear that the volume of some groups of goods is decreasing, but the whole sector must work together to find new groups of goods that are currently not used by rail instead of falling groups. The new charging system will also provide an opportunity for this by offering flexible pricing. Finally, I am not a fortune teller and, at the moment, I can only say so much that the trade flow in March is probably going to be higher than last year, but the year as a whole is still early to assess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U254	You have questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U255	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! As an experienced politician, you probably realize that I am primarily interested in the development of the railway between Rice Family and Rohuküla. On Friday, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas answered the question of Western Life on this subject in this way: 'Although this section of the railway will never be self-rewarding, the willingness to discuss this issue is great, because the penetration of the people of Läänemaa is greater than in any other county. I cannot argue that this is a decision made that the allocation of funds will certainly come, because the amount of the subsidy must be calculated nine times. I am moderately optimistic that the Haapsalu railroad is not a mission imposable. ' I'm paraphrasing the image you used to answer the previous question: are you, as minister, the solution for the Haapsalu railway or...?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U256	Thank you. Life will show. We have consulted this railway initiative group several times, they provide our house with their data and reviews, and they constantly update them. For my part, I am prepared to say that if these calculations exist, we will take this to the level of political decision. We're going to go over these numbers and ask if everyone's ready to decide the same way or the other way around. But we haven't gotten that far by today. I hope we make it at some point, and then we'll find out which is which. But I think the Prime Minister was very precise. Of course, we understand that this railroad section will certainly not be the source of the pension fund for future generations; it will probably still have to be paid for.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U257	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The question is more of a general philosophy once again. I still remember when EVR Cargo was in profit and brought decent dividends to the state. These sums were pretty lush, because once there was transit in a very powerful industry and it worked quite well. Recently, however, only such sad and negative news comes from this area. As a minister, how do you see the potential in this area? Can you act with just the same courage as you said in your reply to the previous question about how to act in Ida-Viru County? It takes a personal attitude and a little flexibility, and it's progressing, so it seems to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U259	Thank you. I can say that the government as a whole is still more bold about this than you want to put it that way. After all, the logic of setting up a holding company or a group is due to the creation of a single value chain. It has several pros, we've introduced them to the public before. The analyses have taken time because the work has been thorough. It has been deliberately thorough so that there would be less surprises later. There are several pros. One side certainly concerns the creation of a strong partner for consumers and carriers of goods and for everyone else, in fact it may also make pricing in the chain more sensible and better, and cooperation in the sector will have an effect. As you mentioned in your inquiry, perhaps it is worth looking at as a complete corridor. For decades, no agreement has been reached, even when times were better. But I see there's a chance now. I think that this group logic must be implemented in the management, governance and control of companies, which is also better in terms of people's development. It will certainly also provide better opportunities for trade in this area. What is being transported in the future is ultimately still the decision of private operators, but we can create good conditions and ensure that state-owned companies are well managed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U260	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U261	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Freight transport by rail has decreased, money has decreased, we use euro money. You referred to the direction of Killa. If you re-establish the railroad on Haapsalu again, it'll take the money. I mean, it's going to be a lot of money, and it's going to run out of euro money. If there is still this very famous route to Europe, do you not think it will be difficult for us to maintain all these lines? Perhaps especially those other lines that exist now will be part of the orphan when Rail Baltic comes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U262	Thank you. This debate is the result of this issue of freight transport. I don't know whether or not you can predict whether the trade will increase or decrease. If they increase and this methodology changes, so that a bit more is paid on passengers too, I think we can maintain and invest in railways. If the status quo is maintained, the question is definitely what exactly is the optimal level of this network. But I think that Rail Baltic is a project that is securityally and economically forward looking, especially if we dream that one day we will perhaps also have a permanent connection with Helsinki.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U263	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U264	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As our inquiry concerns the future of the rail sector, I will come back to the consultation that was in the Committee on the Environment at the end of last year when we discussed the construction of Via Baltica. The question struck me as to why this road begins at the Port of Tallinn, but not at the Port of Sillamäe, where it could come to Tallinn and then go on. Has it ever been discussed, or is it just my utopian idea in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U265	Thank you. I owe an answer because I have not been in this debate and I do not recall any such debate. I'm not guessing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U266	No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I suppose the Minister barely has anything to add. Is that it? This enquiry has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U267	The following inquiry has been submitted by Kersti Sarapuu, Märt Sults, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Andrei Novikov, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamm, Rein Ratas, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Anneli Ott, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassiliev, Siret Kotka, Peeter Ernits, Mikhail Korb, Toomas Vitsut, Mailis Reps, Kadri Simson and Marika Tuus-Laul. On behalf of the heirs, Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U268	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The inquiry is motivated by the continuing concern of the Estonian Association of Hotels and Restaurants that the government has not listened to their cry for help. In the near future, appeals to the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu will be prepared again with a request to postpone the 50% increase in VAT on accommodation establishments. The decrease in the total number of foreign tourists in 2015 was very worrying. Although Estonia is being marketed in coordination with EAS, eyes cannot be closed to the fact that one of the most important arguments for traveling to one country or another is the price. The decline in the number of tourists is due to the recession of our main export markets in Finland and Russia, and unfortunately there is no sign of improvement here. In 11 months, 2.9 million tourists stopped in Estonian accommodation companies. While the number of domestic tourists increased by 7.2% compared to the same time in 2014, the number of foreign tourists decreased by 3.4%. Eleven months in total, the biggest drop in the Russian market was: 187828 people from 1.8 million foreign tourists arrived from Russia, or 34% less than at the same time in 2014. Although Estonia is still an attractive destination for Russian tourists, the weak rouble limits all consumption and, above all, spending outside the country. The filling of Tallinn hotels increased somewhat in October and November, while we know that there was no growth in all of Estonia. Prices have fallen and costs have increased. You can't take money where it doesn't exist. Taxation of the falling market is stupid. If the property is empty, the solution is not to charge more money to existing customers. If the number of tourists arriving in Estonia decreases, the solution is not peeling the existing ones. We must make joint efforts to attract tourists to Estonia, not to deter them further. In this situation, we should look for ways to lower taxes rather than plan for their rise. The special nature of VAT on accommodation services, which is valid in the 25 Member States of the European Union, is used to increase the country's competitiveness in the field of tourism, particularly in the eyes of foreign tourists. Foreigners also make up two thirds of tourists in Estonia. As a result, we can talk about significant exports of services, which account for 30% of total exports. In Estonia, however, exports are known to be tax-free. The government's decision paves the way for the economic downturn and the slowdown in exports, which in turn affects 45000 people working in the tourism sector. The government has justified this tax change in line with the OECD's recommendations to eliminate inefficient tax differences for Estonia. Let us draw attention to the fact that this recommendation was not made to Estonia in the OECD's latest report; the government has simply interpreted it arbitrarily. This decision needs to be reviewed because, in the current unstable economic environment, increasing the tax burden on companies will hamper economic growth and will not motivate businesses to invest in the sector. This is mostly about companies located and operating away from Tallinn, seriously hurting all micro and small enterprises. The consequences will create a favourable ground for the growth of the shadow economy, encouraging the creation of wage poverty in the tourism industry as a whole. My colleague Imre Sooääre and I had the pleasure of attending the annual meeting of the Association of Estonian Hotels and Restaurants last Thursday, where a member of the board expressed the opinion that accommodation companies outside Tallinn are doing patriotic work in their home area, where most investors would never take their steps, because it is almost impossible to earn back investments in these areas. Do we want tourism to end up in the same situation as oil shale processing companies in Ida-Virumaa, where we now rely on hindsight? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U269	Liisa Oviir, Minister of Enterprise, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U270	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questions. I'll read the questions one by one and then I'll answer them. The first question: 'Why does the government continue to act as a brake on the tourism sector and raise VAT on accommodation establishments in a situation where the number of foreign tourists visiting Estonia is decreasing? " True, the number of foreign tourists decreased last year. At the same time 3.1 million tourists stopped in Estonia's accommodation companies in 2015, which is 0.8% more than in 2014. It is also true that this slight increase came first and foremost from domestic tourists. But it doesn't really matter if the tourist who stays overnight is an interior tourist or a foreign tourist. I must also say that I, as the Minister for Enterprise, whose portfolio includes tourism, and the previous Minister for Enterprise, have stood for the VAT exemption for accommodation services to be maintained. If VAT has been 9% so far, a year ago, it was initially wanted to be raised to 20%. Today, thanks in particular to the Social Democratic Party, 14% of VAT has been planned since next year. If a tax change should come to the government's agenda again, then, yes, I support a reduction in the VAT rate to the former level. But it is now a decision that has been adopted, which has been a compromise between coalition parties. The second question: 'The National Development Plan envisages an increase in the number of overnight stays of foreign tourists to five million tourists by 2020. How do you intend to achieve this goal? ' In 2015, domestic and foreign tourists spent 5.8 million nights in Estonian accommodation companies, including 3.77 million nights. That's a pretty good achievement. Of course, we still have quite a long way to go, and we are very clearly moving towards attracting even more foreign tourists to Estonia. Therefore, the following activities are foreseen to achieve the objectives of the 2014/20 National Tourism Development Plan. One of these is a measure to increase the demand for tourism, which we have furnished with EUR 30,5 million. The purpose of the grant is to ensure Estonia's competitiveness and international attractiveness as a tourist destination. This activity is carried out by EAS. Secondly, a grant of EUR 3 million for the management of tourism product development. The purpose of the support is to increase the international competitiveness of the tourism sector through differentiation and the development of tourism products and services that meet tourist needs. The strategic lines of action are the development of thematic, segment and destination-based tourism networks, the development of a tourism quality system and the implementation of sustainable tourism principles. Thirdly, we have developed support for international events and conferences with a budget of EUR 5.3 million. The purpose of the grant is to increase Estonia's recognition as a venue for international sporting and cultural events and conferences. In addition, support is foreseen for major international events with a budget of EUR 2.1 million. The purpose of the grant is to increase Estonia's recognition as a place for international major events. The fifth measure is to support the development of a small port network with a budget of EUR 5 million. The purpose of the grant is to increase the international competitiveness of Estonia as a destination for maritime tourism through the development of a network of small ports for recreational seafarers, which will create motivation to come to Estonia and extend its stay. The development of a business model for tourism companies, with a budget of EUR 6 million, is also foreseen. In order to achieve greater added value in the tourism sector, the knowledge of new business models and the design of services will be improved in particular by tourism operators. Lastly, I call for support for family tourism activities of international interest, with a budget of EUR 14.9 million. We want to create family tourism attractions that are of international interest and important travel motivation in Estonia, which offer activities for young people of different ages. By means of an analogous measure, Lottemaa has already survived, with 80,000 people in the first year, which is quite impressive. Question 3: 'Estonia has missed the opportunity to benefit from conference tourism. What are you going to do to increase conference tourism in Estonia? As we know, there is also a problem with Estonia's future EU Presidency that we do not have enough large modern spaces to hold conferences. ' The development of conference tourism was a priority tourism sector in the previous period and still is. Of course, we are making quite a lot of contributions there. Perhaps it is exaggeration to say that we have so far completely excluded the benefits of conference tourism. Rather, it is appropriate to say that we do not have a modern and large-scale conference centre. However, we have encouraged conference tourism. For Estonia as a destination for conference and business tourism, we are set at EUR 2.2 million in measures and 2.1 million in bringing international conferences here during this period. As regards the development of today's conference centre, this is one of the priorities of the Estonian Government. Very effective work is being done to find optimal funding. We work every day to ensure that a proper large conference centre is built in Estonia. The negotiations are conducted with Tallinn as well as with several private companies. In the context of the Presidency, there is obviously no need to worry; we will find a temporary solution if necessary. Similarly, the Netherlands, which covered up the courtyard of its maritime museum and made it a place where ministerial meetings could be held. So this temporary problem is definitely solved and we will solve it. The establishment of a conference centre in Estonia is, however, one of my priorities and I hope that we will be able to find a solution to this problem during this year. Question 4: "The government is increasingly imposing a tax on local governments on tourism and sees it as one of the lifeline for local governments that are increasingly struggling to fulfil the obligations imposed on them by the state. How do you consider the introduction of a tourism tax to contribute to the development of tourism? ' The respondents have also indicated that the sector is currently hit by a number of setbacks: there is a decline in demand in both the Russian and Finnish markets, but of course there is also a rise in VAT on accommodation services. Under these circumstances, the introduction of a tourism tax must be treated with great caution. This could potentially hamper the tourism sector and the related export and tax revenues. That is why, as Minister for Enterprise, I have made my initial assessment that I certainly cannot support an increase in the tax burden on the tourism sector. The concept of administrative reform states that the new tax would help local governments to earn revenue for the development of infrastructure, to promote and make the region more attractive, and to compensate for the cost burden associated with tourists, probably for only ten municipalities, including Tallinn, Pärnu, Kuressaare, Haapsalu and Tartu. For smaller municipalities with less tourist flows, this tax is unlikely to generate much revenue. So, in my opinion, tourism tax may exist as such an opportunity, but I certainly do not see the possibility of putting any pressure on local authorities to introduce it. After all, the income base of local governments should be charged to local companies, which compete on behalf of both domestic and foreign visitors with businesses located in neighbouring municipalities, but also in the wider region. I therefore believe that a broad agreement with local authorities and local businesses is absolutely necessary to introduce the tax, and that such a tax needs a more in-depth analysis, which is unfortunately lacking at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U271	Questions for the Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U272	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! The representative of the dignitaries correctly pointed out that the Association of Hotels and Restaurants and the Association of Tourist Companies had made a statement that the government could postpone this increase in VAT until at least 2019. As Minister for Enterprise, how do you intend to respond to this appeal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U273	Yes, this statement was sent to Minister of Finance Sven Sester and the Government of the Republic of Estonia. That decision was taken by the government before I became Minister of Enterprise. This decision was preceded by very serious negotiations and discussions. Since these disputes, there has not been such a significant change in the market situation that I consider it necessary to reopen this issue. The Social Democrats have already opened this issue once and, as a result, a much better solution for the sector has actually been achieved. This assessment can be made in the light of the fact that the number of overnight stays increased by 0.8% in 2015 rather than decreased. The foreign tourists came here less, but the domestic tourists have filled this gap very successfully at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U274	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U275	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You said that this decision was preceded by meaningful discussions. However, this was another example of bad legislation, or impact analysis, on this issue was completely lacking in the draft law. This has been highlighted. My question, however, is from the field of statistics. As we know, our hotels have been quite thrilled by the military of the Allied Forces. Can you tell me how many nights there have been for these military personnel and whether they have been counted by domestic or foreign tourists?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U276	Thank you. I have to say, unfortunately, that this nuance was not part of my preparation and I cannot tell you where these overnight stays could lie. I'm just saying, in my gut, they're still supposed to go to foreign tourist accounts. This may also explain why the decline has not been as great as the collapse of the Russian and Finnish markets. However, the rise, which has been more than 7%, has taken place with the help of domestic tourists. But if this question is important, I can ask you to see if we can produce and transmit such statistics to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U277	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You said something about saying that thanks to the Social Democratic Party, the VAT on accommodation facilities will soon be only 14%, otherwise it would have been an even bigger accident and it would have increased more, but you would be happy to lower it in the first place. I understand you in this way that the Social Democrats have contributed to this rise just like a minus sign, because it would have never been on your side. If this was the case for assessing the coalition parties, please tell me what part of the other government partners, the IRL and the Reform Party were in this increase if you are based not on the government as a whole, but on each party separately. Then put the blame on them and tell them how it's divided.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U279	Thank you. I'm sorry if my answer was insane! I said and thought that at first there was also the idea of losing the VAT exemption at all on the negotiating table, i.e. raising VAT on accommodation establishments to the same level as in the rest of the sectors, i.e. 20%. The then Minister for Enterprise argued for this exception to be maintained. The exception was agreed by the government coalition at the time at 14%.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U280	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U281	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your thorough answers. I want to settle first that there is actually a pretty big difference between an internal and an external tourist. For a domestic tourist, we make very high price discounts, and the domestic tourist does not spend as much money as a foreign tourist. So it's very important. You talked very long and thoroughly about how to bring more conference tourism to Estonia. But how can we make sure that the conference service can be offered more outside Tallinn, in smaller places? Have you thought about this and how to help tourism companies outside Tallinn in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U282	Thank you. I spoke about conference tourism in the context of Tallinn only in terms of creating one large-scale conference centre. Conference tourism is quite common in Estonia. Pärnu hotels have contributed very significantly to this. There are regular groups that use this service. The situation is similar in Saaremaa and Tartu. Certain centres will certainly remain the main places here, because they offer additional services that are important to tourists. This leads to the choice of a traveler if he is looking for a place for conference tourism. There is a need to meet a little more conditions than traditional tourism, accessibility and transport opportunities are important, and therefore certain cities will certainly retain an advantage here. However, the advantages of Tallinn are already smaller than those of other cities, precisely because the prices in Tallinn are higher. I would say that smaller towns in Estonia live relatively well in terms of conference tourism, which does not mean that we should not be dealing with this issue. But this is largely a matter of increasing the visibility of Estonia as a tourist destination, and we are dealing with this very intensively.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U283	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U284	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Is the establishment of a conference centre based on Tallinn city hall a completely buried idea or is it still being dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U285	Thank you. We are dealing with this by negotiating with both private operators and Tallinn. These negotiations have been very long-term and complex. That is why we have started to look very intensively for other places. We can put an endless resource of time in one place, but if it doesn't seem to work out, although it would be a unique place for me to prefer it would definitely be, then the conference centre cannot remain in Estonia at all. We can offer Estonia a characteristic environment in different places by means of different values. Why not build a large conference centre of pure wood, because wooden houses are one of the items in Estonia that we are known for. So, yes, we have expanded the perimeter and are looking for a way to move forward with this issue as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U286	Thank you. Madam Minister! Thanks to the Social Democratic Party, the VAT of accommodations will be only 14% instead of 9% in the future. It's really important. But my question is that in the first half of 2018, Estonia is the leader of the European Union and many visitors come here. Does the Social Democratic Party promise that we will have really high-quality reception facilities and that there will be accommodation for everyone in Tallinn, so that we will not have problems during this six-month period?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U287	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U288	Thank you. Yeah, we've got those calculations done. There is no problem in Tallinn with the accommodation of tourists who come here for working visits in connection with the Presidency. Rather, we are working to enable them to come back here as a private tourist. This is certainly an opportunity for our tourism sector to present our country very widely as an excellent tourist destination, and we intend to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U289	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U290	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I'll check it out. I have recently heard that a significant number of hotel rooms in Tallinn have been occupied by our friends, soldiers and officers of friendship countries. Is that true?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U291	Thank you. I don't know how to comment on the position of the Allied soldiers. I assume that much of them will not be in Tallinn, however. Certainly, given the number of hotel rooms available in Tallinn, it cannot be that they are filled only by allied soldiers. They'd rather live near bases in different places across the country. But, unfortunately, I don't know what to say about the accommodation conditions of the Allied forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U292	Thank you, Madam Secretary. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U293	Honorable manager! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The representatives of the Free Party have repeatedly recommended from this speaker that the government coalition acknowledge its miscalculation and come before us with a draft which provides for the abolition of the increase in VAT on accommodation establishments. I'm gonna make that proposal here at this late hour again. We have almost four months to discuss this issue. We'll make it. Indeed, the Minister for Enterprise was not yet in office at the time of the adoption of this cluster law, and perhaps that is why I do not know that there was no in-depth discussion at the time, not to mention an impact analysis that was simply not there. To correct mistakes is basically never a shame, I want to say here today. The estimated revenue from the increase in VAT will in no way compensate for the reputational damage that the law in question has already caused and is still causing. This decision has been criticised by the general public, not to mention the media, but by those who are even vitally affected. This decision has been criticised by the experienced and dignified politicians of the Reform Party in their positions, not to mention the representatives of the smaller partners of the coalition across Estonia. Minister Oviir, your own party has repeatedly criticised this decision, whether directly or secretly. You have a unique opportunity to straighten your back out and go before the government with a bill that could reverse this increase in VAT. This is much more important than the candidate for the Court of Auditors or who is allowed to march to the Civil Status Office. I bet the coalition's rating would rise exponentially after that, and you yourself would go into the history of Estonian politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U294	There are no further requests to speak. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-07_U295	The free microphone is canceled because no one wants to say anything. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 21.29 p.m.
