ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 11th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Riigikogu speech chair Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U2	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I have to hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu. Its content is to propose to the Government of the Republic regarding the field of state means of payment. You probably remember a few months ago that the public was startled by the fact that the Ministry of the Interior had been mistreated with a credit card. This was acknowledged by the Minister of the Interior. The topic began to interest the Free Party Group and we made enquiries to all ministries about the use of credit cards. We have received answers from the ministries, and we have done a brief analysis. I am not going into detail right now, but we think this area needs to be cleaned up. We think that credit cards should be analysed and audited, as well as the area of debit cards, and that this was unexpectedly revealed to us, and that a single system could be developed for the granting, management and control of national means of payment which are mandatory for all public authorities. We also offer ideas on how the European Commission's practice could be taken over in a meaningful and smart way in the Estonian country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U4	Good morning, Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu and ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Conservative People's Party Group will submit an inquiry to Sven Sester. The issue is the financial situation in Greece and the efficiency of the third aid package. As we know, the Riigikogu commended m. A Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and Greece was approved on 18 August 2008 by agreeing to a third package of assistance of up to EUR 86 billion. The main objectives of the aid programme until August 2018 are to restore fiscal sustainability in Greece, to ensure financial stability, to promote growth, competitiveness and investment, and to modernise public administration. Given the fact that Estonia's participation in the European Stability Mechanism is 1.3 billion euros, of which we have paid up 148.8 million euros, it is appropriate to have a better overview of the success story of Greece and the situation of Estonian taxpayers' money in this investment. That is why we are asking four questions. Firstly, how has Greece fulfilled its commitments under the third aid package? Secondly, how much has the debt burden of the Greek State been reduced? Thirdly, how do you comment on the statement that part of Greece's debt needs to be extinguished? Last but not least, during what period are the first repayments of loans granted to Greece coming up, and how much are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U5	Good colleagues, no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. Good colleagues, there's a message. It is requested to state that, after the end of the plenary session of the Riigikogu, the formation of the Catalonia Support Group will take place in the Chamber. The callers are Mark Soosaar, Aadu Black and Artur Talvik. Active participation is expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U6	Let's start working on the agenda items. The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 172 initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõmme, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U7	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Estonian Free Party Group initiated the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act for the second time, including on 18 January. The objective is still the same as last year: repealing the unfair restriction that entered into force on 1 May 2014, which excluded the possibility of granting an unemployed member of the board. This, in turn, has led to a situation where a member of the management board does not have the right to state aid, i.e. unemployment benefit, when he or she has become unemployed and lost his or her income. Last time, in September 2015, our proposal in this Chamber was not widely supported, although the subject has been up for quite a while. Fortunately, the situation has changed today, and this is largely due to the fact that in December 2015 the Chancellor of Justice drew attention to the exact same issue, even going so far as he claims that the current situation is in conflict with the Constitution. He said two important things. Firstly, because of the mere fact that the company is part of the board of directors, the restriction of rights is disproportionate and clearly incompatible with the objective of supporting small business. Secondly, he said that abuse of the unemployment insurance system could be avoided, and therefore the existence of the risk of abuse does not justify unequal treatment. Now I'm talking about the scale of the problem. The current version of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act states that the unemployed person who is a member of the company's board of directors is not counted. It is recalled that the conditions for entitlement to unemployment benefit are specified in § 6 of the Unemployment Insurance Act. This section states, first, that persons who are registered as unemployed under § 6 of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act are entitled to compensation. Secondly, it states that they must be covered by unemployment insurance contributions and have at least 12 months of unemployment insurance during the 36 months preceding the date of registration. Thirdly, this is a very important point, and they must not have become unemployed on a voluntary basis. All three conditions, not one or two, must be met at the same time in order to qualify for unemployment benefit. Our draft does not change that, which means that the situation will remain the same. However, the Kuriosum is that a member of the management board cannot meet the conditions laid down in § 6 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, as the Employment Services and Benefits Act states that members of the management board are not counted as unemployed. Regardless of whether or not a person is paid for his or her work and whether or not he or she has been paid unemployment insurance contributions, if he or she has not been registered as unemployed, one of the conditions for receiving unemployment insurance benefits is not fulfilled. It's as simple as that right now. It should be recalled that unemployment insurance is a compulsory insurance contribution aimed at securing the person's livelihood in the event of unemployment by paying him a so-called replacement income for a certain period of time. Today's situation is perilous. I will give you a few examples of a situation that has offended the sense of justice of our entrepreneurs. For example, those board members who have started entrepreneurship have been left in front of a broken trough in order to switch to full action. However, as we know, it often takes years to get a job in your company, and that is why, at the same time as starting a business, you work in another company as an employee and you work to earn your daily living. The unemployment insurance is paid correctly on the salary earned for the salary paid, but if this person loses his or her job, he or she will not receive unemployment benefit. Why? Because he's trying to start his own business. In that case, he is not currently unemployed in the eyes of the state because he has his own company. But this company isn't that far away to secure income. So, of course, this person has the opportunity to give up the promotion of his own business. Another example. The company has ceased its activities and does not have any economic or other activity which results in the company not having a turnover and its manager does not have the possibility to receive income, remuneration, dividends or similar from the company. The only way to get help from the state is to liquidate the company, even though it could still be breathed into life if, for example, the situation changes or changes can be made. In addition, there are situations where the manager cannot give up the management of the company because there is no financial means to liquidate the company or there is a liquidation process that may take years. Finally, I would like to mention the situation where a member of the family of a person working in a public institution has a special need and does not find a permanent job because he or she needs individual working conditions. To ensure that the family member has a job and meaningful activity, the person decides, for example, to set up a small business where the family member can work as a cleaner, for example. However, if something happens so that a person can no longer work in a public institution and loses his or her job, he or she will also be forced to liquidate this small company that he or she created. He or she has the following options: he or she must either give up unemployment insurance or, if he or she cannot give up, he or she must liquidate his or her business, which employs a family member with special needs. In the latter case, two unemployed persons would become unemployed. Many of you are certainly now thinking about the fact that entrepreneurship is always associated with risk, which means that the income planned in the business plan may be lost or less than expected. It is true, but we are not regulating the realisation of the risk mentioned in our proposal, but a situation where the company has essentially ceased its activities or the board member no longer has income and is factually unemployed. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia says that every person is entitled to assistance if he or she can no longer cope with himself or herself. The third paragraph of § 29 of the Constitution states that the state assists job seekers in finding a job. The assistance provided to the unemployed, job-seekers and persons who are not yet unemployed or registered as job-seekers varies. Everyone has the right to receive services from the unemployment fund: employment mediation, career guidance and job search counselling. However, if a person is unemployed, he or she has much wider opportunities to receive benefits or services, he or she has the option to choose from 21 services. A person may also receive unemployment benefit or unemployment benefit and, for example, scholarship and travel and accommodation allowances to cover the costs of using employment services if he/she has been able to register for unemployment. Our proposal is based on the fact that if a member of the management board does not receive a salary as a member of the management board, but is working at the same time as a member of the management board receives unemployment insurance contributions on his salary, then, if he becomes unemployed, being a member of the management board is irrelevant and the unemployment benefit is paid on the basis of payments paid in another job, if the member of the management board receives a salary for his work and the unemployment insurance contributions are counted and paid regardless of the form of contract (currently 1,6% for the insured and 0.8% for the employer), the member of the management board, like any other paying agent of the insurance premiums, is entitled to insurance cover, i.e. in the event of unemployment. We must not forget that the majority of board members simply work as a leader for a stranger's owner, and for them it is no different from the work done as a salary. Losing this job means keeping them out of work. All people who contribute to the so-called self-insurance must be entitled to cover if the risks materialise. At the same time, we believe that risk mitigation must remain a free choice for a member of the company's board of directors. This relates to the freedom to conduct a business. It is necessary to assess whether and what guarantees are needed, i.e. business must be accompanied by the right to self-determination and freedom of choice, which is a characteristic part of this form of action. In 2014, when this legislative amendment was introduced, one of its objectives was the fight against fraud. In this case, when processing the draft, the reason for the loss of the unemployed status of members of the management board was that the Ministry estimates that there are about 1000 people in Estonia who, while on the company's management board, do not receive remuneration and have registered as unemployed, but actually withdraw their remuneration in some other way, avoiding paying social tax and unemployment insurance contributions. Mait Palts, the head of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, has said that the 2014 amendment was like killing a mosquito with a grenade, because it affects everyone who is active. All payments and receipts are known by the tax office, if necessary, to determine for each individual whether or not he or she has an income. There are therefore a number of tools to prevent abuse. Everyone who criticised this law at the time (there were many: Mait Palts, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Confederation of Employers and many well-known lawyers) received the answer that, despite being well acquainted with economic matters, they have completely misunderstood the matter, because the Ministry has taken the view that the company's manager is not working even if he is working for free. He runs the company, how can he be unemployed? And when the risks materialise, there is a normal business risk. We are proud of our e-governance, and for good reason. I sincerely believe that in order to prevent abuse, we are also able to assess whether a person is unemployed or not, whether he or she has income or not. In addition to the well-functioning Tax and Customs Board, which receives all the necessary data, there is always the opportunity to take the person who wants to register as unemployed, confirming that he or she is unemployed. However, if a person has made false declarations, the State will always be able to recover the aid unduly paid. The Chancellor of Justice must therefore agree that today's situation cannot in any way be justified by the risk of abuse. In order to justify this situation, it has even been argued that if a member of the board has no income, there is no problem because there is a subsistence allowance available to ensure a minimum income, which is paid if a person is unable to provide income for himself or his or her family with a job or to obtain sufficient means of subsistence. But it doesn't matter right now. The head of the company has contributed through taxes to the economy of the country and has a legitimate expectation of obtaining State support in the event of difficulties. Entrepreneurs are the foundation of our country, they employ themselves and others, and they pay taxes to the state. While in 2004, we still had just over 60,000 companies, ten years later, in 2014, there were nearly 114000 businesses. The annual growth was therefore around 1000 companies. Of these 114000, around 106000 or 93% are micro-enterprises employing fewer than ten employees. Most of the activities are in service and trade. In view of the fact that there are 1 to 3 members of the Executive Board, the draft under discussion today concerns more directly or indirectly 300000 to 350000 people, plus their dependent family members. Finally. In 2011, a legislative amendment was introduced which gave the possibility to establish its own company in substance without a contribution. On that occasion, some sentences sounded like that to become an entrepreneur and help yourself. Let us, then, allow companies themselves to help themselves by doing business, while leaving them with the hope that if all the bad risks are to materialise at the same time, they can count on state aid as taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U8	Good waitress, thank you! You have at least one question. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Yes, the situation is incriminating. I wanted to ask you something like this: has the waitress understood in this long process what has so far prevented the executive from solving this problem? Here, too, it turned out that the ministry, as it were, apparently the ministry officials were, so that the entrepreneur had a job in any case, and that was his own business. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal in this Chamber was unanimously approved. So what's the problem? Can't the coalition beat the Social Ministry's officials or what's behind the stump?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U10	Thank you for your question. The Government of the Republic has an analysis of the situation foreseen in the Action Plan. That was also the reason why our earlier proposal was rejected. This means that a position has been taken that the situation needs to be analysed. The reply sent to us said that the analysis would be completed in December 2015. I hope it's finished. But after the Chancellor of Justice proposed to the Riigikogu to change the situation, it was said that it is now necessary to analyse the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Therefore, I do not know exactly why this situation has remained as it was foreseen to date with this 2014 amendment. But I hope, however, that the obstacle is not ministerial officials. It's a cross-party issue. Both the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have recognised, after the Chancellor of Justice's presentation in this Chamber, that the situation needs to be changed. I think we can get out from behind this stump.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U11	Mailis Reps, please! Good waitress, you have a question from Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It's been a year since the election. You came to the Riigikogu after the elections with great expectations and hopes. How would you sum up the year, and with what expectation do you meet for the next three years, precisely in view of this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U13	Thank you. I guess this year has erased a lot of hope, to say the least. Why am I saying this? It is not the wish of the Free Party to make this matter its own, but it is a cross-party issue. This is the subject of all parties, including the Reform Party, which has very much supported entrepreneurs. I told you, there's a lot of hope that's gone. Sometimes it is difficult to accept that it is not the subject that matters, but the one who proposes it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U14	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U15	Thank you, honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! At the beginning of your answer, you said very nicely that certain hopes have gone out in a year. Perhaps you can specify which hopes have been extinguished and which ones have survived?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U16	Thank you for your question. I'm a very optimistic person in character. Even though there have been setbacks, I hope that good ideas will still be supported in this Chamber. I also hope that the rest of my hopes will not be extinguished.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U17	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Aivar Koka!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U18	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this topic in three sessions. On 8 March, the Commission was also invited to its meeting by the Adviser to the Employment Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Õie Jõgiste. The representative of the initiator of the draft law presented to the Commission the draft amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. It is intended to remove the restriction which entered into force on 1 May 2014, which is why a member of the company's management board cannot register as unemployed and therefore does not have the possibility to receive unemployment insurance. The initiator's representative explained that the Estonian Free Party Group submitted a similar draft on 21 September last year. The Government of the Republic then decided not to support the draft and the Riigikogu rejected it in the plenary session. On 17 December 2015, the Chancellor of Justice presented a proposal to the Riigikogu to bring the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act into line with the Constitution. In his proposal, the Chancellor of Justice pointed out that this unequal treatment merely because of the fact that the company is part of the board of directors is contrary to the Constitution and also contrary to the aim of the State to develop small businesses. The proposal of the Chancellor of Justice was assessed by the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also by the Assembly, who decided that the proposal should be supported. In addition, in its presentation, the initiator's representative pointed out that, in comparison with draft 92, a proposal for unemployment insurance contributions from a member of the company's management board was now included in the draft. In a situation where a member of the management board receives a salary for his or her work and his or her salary is counted and paid unemployment insurance contributions are paid, a member of the management board, like any other person paying insurance premiums, should be entitled to insurance cover, i.e. in the event of unemployment. The Commission discussed the same subject on 14 March and then decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 17 April and appoint Mr Aivar Kokk, the chairman of the committee, as rapporteur. Both decisions were taken by consensus. On 4 April, this issue was discussed again and the following decisions were taken: to close the first reading (by 7 members of the Commission, there were no votes against or abstentions) and to propose that ten working days be set by the deadline for tabling amendments. Finally. There are more than 114000 companies in Estonia and most of them are small enterprises. Inevitably, entrepreneurship is always associated with risk. Therefore, people who are engaged in entrepreneurship must have a sense of security. It must be noted, however, that the draft in question is intended to grant only members of the company's board of directors the possibility of payment of unemployment insurance contributions, which leads to unequal treatment between the members of the management and control bodies of other legal persons. Under current law, unemployment insurance contributions are not paid by a member of the management and control body of a legal person. According to the draft, unemployment insurance would be paid by a member of the management board, but unfortunately, the explanatory memorandum does not show why other members of the management and control bodies referred to in § 9 of the Income Tax Act are excluded. The possibility of payment of unemployment insurance contributions must be granted for all types of legal person (company, self-employed person, non-profit association, foundation, public legal person, etc.) as the risk of unemployment may materialise regardless of the type of legal person. Since there are many very good things in the draft, but there are also those places that need to be improved, I think that ten working days is enough time to propose improvements. The Commission was very clear that the first reading should be completed and progressed with this draft. I agree with Mr Monika, who is a waitress for the Free Party, that this is an important issue, but it certainly cannot only be viewed narrowly on the side of companies, but must be seen on the side of the whole business. It is clear that we should all be able to pay unemployment insurance contributions, because entrepreneurship, no matter what form we look at, is associated with risk. If we are willing to pay insurance premiums, we should also have the opportunity to insure ourselves. It should not be prohibited by any law, and we believe that it should definitely be voluntary. Those who pay insurance premiums can also receive unemployment benefit if the situation arises that the work ends for some reason or something happens to the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U19	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U20	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I think that all parties must certainly think about small business developers and promoters. There are difficult economic situations both in our neighbouring countries and in the neighbourhood, and the country must be ready to help these businesses. I have concerns about the record of your procedural decision. Apparently, the decision was not quite unanimous. Would you elaborate on the procedural decision: who was in favour and who opposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U21	I read to you very clearly that there were 7 members of the Commission in favour, there were no votes against or abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U22	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! First of all, I am pleased that the Commission has developed well compared to the end of last year when the analogous initiative was decided to reject. The main rapporteur said that by December the government had to prepare an analysis on this subject that we had not seen. In the meantime, the Chancellor of Justice came to the Riigikogu with his views and the Riigikogu supported him. It has now been said that the government, in turn, is analysing the position of the Chancellor of Justice. Do you have any idea where these analyses will be completed, when they will arrive at the Commission and when we will be able to resolve this problem in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U24	Thank you, questioner! It is not very easy to answer that question. We must recognise that the draft proposed by the Free Party last year and the draft proposed this year do not overlap with one. There are very many differences, just fundamental differences. The Commission considers that if unemployment insurance contributions have been paid and there is no employment for any reason, it must be possible to receive unemployment insurance benefits. The Chancellor of Justice has made a completely different opinion in his proposal: if someone is working under a contract of employment and is a member of the board of directors somewhere and this employment contract ends for some reason, the question arises as to whether he or she may not receive unemployment insurance. We in the Commission are looking at this more broadly. In our opinion, it is no matter what form of employment a person works on. For example, if a company goes bankrupt, the person will be a member of the board for as long as this bankruptcy ends. The government has analysed this problem on one side, the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice is on the other. The third is that we would like to see this solution in a much wider way so that all forms of enterprise are protected. Can we adopt this law before Midsummer Day, I cannot allow it, because all parties should get to the table, and in our committee it is customary that we listen to all parties. But I do believe that this law will be passed before 2017 and will apply from next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U25	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U26	Dear waitress, I have to ask you a more specific question. You named a person who works under a contract of employment. There's been some confusion lately. Some people use this expression to mean that it is a person who has entered into some sort of contract on the basis of which he works. The second part of people take it narrowly, more legally, in the view that it is precisely the relatively small type of contract described in the law, the name of which is the Employment Contracts Act. If you used that expression, what does it mean? Or did you have some sort of third meaning? Legally, they're quite different things, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U27	I should say I used it in the first and second senses. I was thinking of everyone who is not members of the board or board of directors doing any other form of work and paying payments. The remaining cases are currently covered by unemployment insurance, but unfortunately the members of the board and the board do not have it. We would like to see whether it is a foundation, a public limited company, a private limited company, a legal person governed by public law or a non-profit organisation, if its manager is paid, then it could be able to pay unemployment insurance premiums on it, and if it pays them, it should be able to receive unemployment insurance benefits in case something happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U28	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a wish to negotiate on behalf of the political groups? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 172 amendments, including 26 April at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the first item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U29	Let's move on to the second item. The second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Creation of the reserve capital of the Bank of Estonia' presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs' begins. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U30	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, The Committee on Monetary Affairs started on 17 February. A draft decision aimed at enabling Eesti Pank to continue to increase its reserve capital by 200 million euros to a total of 300 million euros. The first reading of the draft act took place on 8 March and the amendments were tabled by the deadline of 22 March at 5.15 p.m.; no amendments were received from the Riigikogu. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meeting on 4 April and decided unanimously to propose that the draft be put to the final vote after the second reading. Compared to the first-reading text, we have made linguistic and technical clarifications. A majority of the votes cast shall be required for the adoption of the decision. I call on my good colleagues to support the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U31	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments have been received to draft 183. The position of the commission is that the draft must be put to the final vote at second reading. Good fellows, I'm gonna put a bill 183 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu and 6 against, with no abstentions. Draft 183 of the decision of the Riigikogu on "Estonian Bank's increase in reserve capital" submitted by the Monetary Committee has been adopted as a decision. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U32	Let's move on to the third item. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on district heating and apartment ownership and housing associations initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Olga Ivanova, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The development of this draft was due to the need to clarify the problems associated with the interruption of heat supply in apartment buildings. The fact that some owners or holders of apartment property do not bear the costs arising from the management of co-ownership has led to a disproportionate disadvantage for those who do not or do not wish to fulfil their obligations. The problem started at the time of the last economic crisis, when there were more cases that due to some debtors the heat company cut off the entire building's heat supply based on the principle that the owners of the apartment are jointly responsible for the breach of the contract for the sale of heat. The then regulation of the district heating law allowed heating equipment to be discontinued at seven days' notice. On 3 June 2010, the Law amending the Law on district heating and social welfare was adopted, which introduced that the heat supply needed to heat the dwelling may be interrupted from 1 October to 30 April only after 90 days have elapsed since the notification of the debt sent by the heat company and the consumer has not removed the heat supply from the ground during that period. However, the amendment has not served its purpose. This year, too, Kohtla-Järve has created a situation where heating energy suppliers have left the people who have paid for the heat properly in the cold. This was the case for debtors who had not fulfilled their obligations. At the same time, conscientious payers do not want to abandon their homes or settle in a social home. Apartment owners also fear that unheated houses will gradually become uninhabitable. For example, the apartment building in Kohtla-Järve Vahtra 23 already has burst pipes and radiators, as well as frozen water in standing rooms. Now there's only one person in this house who lives there without heat, electricity and water. He's the only resident there who doesn't want to leave his apartment, and he hasn't been a debtor. This is not just the problem of Kohtla-Järve, such problems are found all over Estonia. The purpose of the draft is to ensure that the loss of heat supply does not jeopardise the ownership of the owners of the apartments who have paid their bills in good time and have fulfilled all their obligations to the heat company. The draft amends Paragraph 17 (41) of the District heating Act, which governs the right of a heat company to interrupt the heat supply necessary for heating the dwelling during the period from 1 October to 30 April. The draft shall include a sentence in this paragraph according to which the heat plant must not deteriorate the condition of the apartment property by disrupting the heat supply. § 79 of the Apartment Ownership and Apartment Associations Act is also amended, which was supplemented by § 10 (11) of the District heating Act and provided that, in the case of immovable property divided into apartment property, the building association is the joiner and the owner of the dwelling can only be a joiner if it is possible to connect its consumer installation to the network through a connection point complying with the requirements of this Act. The draft stipulates that in the case of immovable property divided into apartment property, the joiner is the building association or the owner of the dwelling. The date of entry into force of § 79 of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act has also been amended by the Bill, which has already been brought into effect on 1 January of the following year. The application of the Act protects the rightful owners of their apartments so that the heat company does not engage in activities that undermine the condition of their apartment property. The adoption of the bill as a law does not entail any additional expenditure on the state budget. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic has found that the problem dealt with in the draft cannot be solved by amending the district heating law, and the government sees a focus on the ability to liquidate debts as a solution. There is a strong impression that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has not been familiar with the situation outside Tallinn. The liquidation of the debt also requires an agreement with the debtor, in this case the owner of the dwelling, or a judicial execution, i.e. a forced sale of the debtor's assets. However, the debtor may have long left Estonia to find work in Finland, for example, which precludes the agreement. Forced selling makes it impossible to pay low prices for apartments, for example in smaller municipalities, it does not even cover debt. In such a situation, the current law leaves all responsibility to the residents of the apartment building, while the thermal company has no concerns, it still receives its money. According to the Government, the new wording of Section 17 (41) of the District heating Act leads to a disproportionate and unjustified increase in the price of district heating, as the heat company will have to assess the credit risk of each contracting entity and cover the costs of the debts by means of the district heating price when the change enters into force. However, the price of district heating reflects the costs for the entire network area and the additional costs caused by one consumer are also reflected in the price of district heating for other consumers. However, it should be considered as insurance, as no landlord can really be sure that it is not the person who is not paying the bills that comes next to him. This draft point divides the risk between the co-owners and the heat company. According to the Government's opinion, local authorities are obliged to pay income support to vulnerable persons, which also takes into account heating costs when calculating and paying them, and this should largely solve the problem. At the same time, it has been recognised in the following sentence that, for example, from Kohtla-Järve City Government, all persons applying for income support have also received assistance. Thus, the government recognises that the municipality cannot do more to solve the problem. The question remains as to how people left in the cold should behave in such a situation. I therefore ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U34	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U35	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You add a sentence here that by disrupting the heat supply, the condition of the apartment property must not be impaired. How do you decorate it? How is it possible, for example, that on 1 January the heat supply will be switched off, but the condition of the apartment property will not deteriorate? Do you think such a thing is even possible, or do you really mean you can't turn off the heat?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U36	Basically, yes, you answered your own question. Our goal is that no apartment building, where families also live with small children, will be left without heating during the heating period if there are 20 degrees of cold outside, as happened this time in Kohtla-Järve.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U37	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U38	Good manager! Good waitress! Can you tell me who should pay the company the cost if someone in the building management company isn't going to pay for the heat, but you're saying that the heat shouldn't be turned off at all, and that's how it's gonna go for the rest of your life? Then why would anyone even pay for the heat? I guess you'd only pay for stupid people. You don't turn off the heat, you don't have to pay, 90 days goes by, you still don't have to pay, a year goes by, you don't have to pay. Who pays the company these costs? Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U39	The same debtor who enters into a direct contract with a heat company shall pay him the costs. The heat company can likewise, on the basis of a judgment, expropriate the debtor's apartment or deal directly with the owner of the dwelling rather than with the building management company.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U40	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U41	Thank you. I will proceed on the basis of your answer to my question. If you've been thinking that the heat supply couldn't be disrupted, why didn't you write it like that? Why are you blurring about any deterioration in the condition of apartment property? So I've written right into your bill that you can't shut down, that you want to put in place such a nice element of communism and that's it!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U42	Perhaps you have not understood the explanatory statement or the content of this explanation. Our proposal is that the building management company should have the choice of whether the building management company as a whole, or the whole house or the owner of the dwelling, will remain the customer of the heat company, with whom a direct contract will be concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U43	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U44	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Have you also analyzed what could happen in a situation where many residents are failing to pay for heating and, as a result, the heat company is going bankrupt? Then it may be that not only in one house, but in the whole region, the heat industry will no longer work, all houses and apartments will be cold and the pipes will freeze and burst. Do you still not see the danger that if we give the opportunity not to pay, so that the money may not be recovered until 20 years later, when the mill has stopped grinding, there may be worse situations? I have worked in one municipality and know very well from my experience how this problem was finally solved. But housing companies are still created because the house has complete management. When a neighbor talks to a neighbor, it is much easier to resolve the situation than when someone comes from some distance to deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U45	Thank you. If you have a good proposal on how to deal with the situation, I hope you will share it with the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir, whose ministry has a committee set up to analyse the district heating law and must propose to the government how to avoid situations such as those in Kohtla-Järve during the winter. We're talking about heat company bankruptcy, but somehow we're not talking about housing company bankruptcy. Why? As you know, on 1 January 2018, a new Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act will enter into force, which says that several houses may be members of a single building management company. Suppose the members of the housing association are four apartment buildings, one of them creates a certain number of debtors, and it is not possible to pay their debts at the expense of other people. If this condo company goes bankrupt, what happens then? Who pays these debts, how do people live on in these apartment buildings? That's one thing. The other thing is that we are talking about the possibility of direct contracts. Apartment cooperatives would then have the choice, and people would also have the possibility to enter into a direct contract with a thermal company. I believe you understand that the heat company has considerably more opportunities to recover debts from the housing association, either through a court decision or through, for example, a collection company. After all, the heat company is much more wealthy than the housing company, which is a non-profit association. At the moment, all obligations have simply been placed on the shoulders of the building management company. On a heat company, of course, I understand these too, it is, of course, easier to submit to a housing association with 120 apartments, for example, only one bill, but not 120 bills. The company's profits depend on it, here's their lobbying, that's understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U46	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U47	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, In the Committee on Economic Affairs, was the government's opinion on this subject also mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U48	Yes, a representative of the ministry was present, and this was discussed. It is, in itself, our great achievement that a Commission has already been set up. We would like to know how far this has come with our work and whether the Commission has met at all to discuss the district heating law and to offer the government some sort of proposals. The Chancellor of Justice also felt that this law would not work if people could be left in the cold in winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U49	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Mr Kalle Palling, Member of the Economic Commission for the Speaker's Committee on Economic Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U50	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give a brief overview of how the debate was conducted in the run-up to the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on district heating and housing property and housing cooperative law 176 in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu. Olga Ivanova, Member of the Riigikogu, representative of the initiator of the draft act, introduced the content of the draft and answered the questions. Rein Vaks, an expert at the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, gave further explanations on the government's positions. The development of the bill was due to the need to clarify the problems associated with the interruption of heat supply in apartment buildings. The fact that some owners or holders of apartment property do not bear the costs arising from the management of co-ownership has led to a situation in many apartment buildings where those duly discharging their obligations are disproportionately disadvantaged by persons who are unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations. The purpose of the draft is to ensure that the loss of heat supply does not jeopardise the ownership of apartment owners who have paid their bills on time and have fulfilled all their obligations to the heat company. The draft amends Paragraph 17 (41) of the District heating Act, which governs the right of a heat company to interrupt the heat supply necessary for heating the dwelling during the period from 1 October to 30 April. The draft shall include a sentence in this paragraph according to which the heat plant must not deteriorate the condition of the apartment property by disrupting the heat supply. § 79 of the Apartment Ownership and Apartment Associations Act is also amended, which was supplemented by § 10 (11) of the District heating Act and provided that in the case of immovable property divided into apartment property, the building association is the joiner and the owner of the apartment may be a joiner if it is possible to connect to the network through a connection point complying with the requirements of the District heating Act. The draft stipulates that in the case of immovable property divided into apartment property, the member of the building association or the owner of the dwelling is the joiner. The draft has also amended the date of entry into force of § 79 of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act, which has been submitted to 1 January 2017. I will sum up the debate. The debate raised doubts as to whether this draft could solve the social problems. The question arose as to whether a heat company should still offer a free service if there are also malicious owners who do not, in principle, want to pay the bills. However, the representative of the initiator of the bill found that the heat company had a better chance of recovering debts than the housing association, which is a non-profit association. Access to justice and collection services are expensive. Neither can the building management company turn off heating in one apartment because it is neither a service provider nor a party to the contract. However, the majority of the Commission felt that small companies could not be required to do so. Since this is a wider problem, it should also be addressed more systematically in the context of housing. It was argued that the local authority had to deal with the provision of such services. If there is a problem with the provision of the service, the local government should seek solutions for the debtor. The representative of the initiator of the draft act felt that such obligations could not always be imposed on the local government. The Commission agreed that the problem needs to be addressed more broadly and, if necessary, that the State should also be involved. At the same time, it was pointed out that it is possible to ask the local government for income support if the payment of the heating bill is too much, and local authorities have always provided support. It is also the responsibility of the local government to resolve social issues. The majority of the Commission considered that such legislative changes would give people a false signal, just as it would have been allowed not to pay bills, as the heat company should no longer deteriorate the condition of apartment property by disrupting the heat supply. In essence, this would mean that heating cannot be switched off at all during the heating period. Also, if, for example, Tallinna Küte is able to enter into debt-payment agreements with housing associations and owners, so that the entire cooperative does not switch off the heating, the amendment of the law due to VKG Heat is not proportionate. As a working group has also been set up at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Commission asked for clarifications on their activities and timetables. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained that the work is ongoing, but there are no specific time frames and no definitive solutions yet. The Commission asked the Government to consider resolving the problems caused by the interruption of heat supply in connection with the amendment of the District heating Act, which is due to start soon. Now the decisions. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 5 April, but at the next meeting it was decided to postpone it to 12 April, i.e. today. It was also proposed to reject bill 176 at first reading, with 4 members of the Commission in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U51	Thank you. You have questions. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U52	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! This was primarily about the situation in Kohtla-Järve. But I've heard that the Rakvere City Council is discussing the sale of AS Rakvere Heat, which currently belongs to the city. As a result, the urban population may face an additional tax burden. The problem, however, is that most of the city's inhabitants have not even heard of this idea. What do you think the city authorities should inform citizens of important decisions such as selling the Rakvere Heat of AS?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U53	First of all, I very much ask that you do not misunderstand, as if a change in ownership would automatically mean an increase in the tax burden. I think Rakvere Heat can charge for heat energy at the rate determined by the Competition Authority. Calling it some kind of tax is an obvious exaggeration. But I think it's every municipality's own decision how it communicates with its citizens. If, after all, it has been decided to sell a significant part of the city's property or to make free use of it, or to provide some kind of service for the city's money, for example, at the expense of kindergartens or school funding, I think it would be perfectly natural to inform the citizens about it. This can be done either in the local media (e.g. in the rural municipality paper or in the city paper) or by any other means. After all, you know a little better how things are in Tallinn, what you inform the people about and what you do not notify them about. I think Rakvere can use good practice here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U54	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! From what you have said, I understand that you believe that this is a matter of social welfare. Don't you think our social welfare system is already burdened with obligations that the Government of the Republic is raising excise duties and taxes? Why do you not want to resolve this issue in a different way, rather than burdening the state budget with additional financial obligations? I would point out, however, that this issue concerns legal relations between the building management company and the heat company or direct agreements with the owners of the apartment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U56	I do not think that it is justified in any way to impose these obligations on the building management company and the local government to the heat company. The heat company produces heat, the members of the building association consume this heat, and every service they consume must be paid for. It is not right for the Riigikogu to signal that it is not necessary to pay for the heat consumed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U57	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In your speech, you said that if the law is supplemented by the sentence we have proposed that the interruption of heat supply must not worsen the condition of apartment property, it essentially means that the central heating must not be switched off during the heating period. Would you answer the question, is this allowed now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U59	It was a quote from this draft that you yourself drafted; it did not reflect the content of the debate. Indeed, the way it is now is that if the bills are not paid, the heat supply has the right to be cut. That's what caused the problem. I think this is perfectly understandable: it is not possible to continue providing the service if there are still no invoices.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U60	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U61	Thank you. Honourable Commission waitress. I still want to be more specific. Who says you don't have to pay for the heat? This is not stated in the explanatory memorandum or in this bill. The question now is whether to allow housing associations and owners to choose which legal form they prefer when communicating with a thermal company, whether they make a joint agreement on behalf of the building management company, or whether they conclude a separate direct agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U62	How many municipalities is that really a problem? When we talk about this concrete example, I think that this municipality should come and help to solve these problems. If the vast majority of Estonia's country, I think that 99% of the apartment owners can manage to conclude heat supply contracts with a thermal company, can pay bills and get their things done in this way, then I think that it is disproportionate to change the law in this way because of the problems of a particular city.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U63	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I want to continue with my previous question. In fact, it is already written in the law that heating must not be turned off during the heating period. This provision arose when several years ago there was a similar problem. As far as I know, Reinsalu was in Kohtla-Järve, promised to solve this problem and solved it in such a way that the law was supplemented in such a way that central heating should not be turned off during the heating period. But the heat supplier found a way: the heat was not turned off during the heating period, but simply when the winter came, it was not turned on. Maybe you have some sort of solution, how can you not do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U65	The easiest solution is to pay the bills.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U66	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U67	Thank you. Good waitress! It is not always possible to enter into an individual contract with a heat company. I'll give you a house where I live, for example. How do you make that deal when there's a five-time house and, let's say, five apartments pay for the heat and the others don't? It's not like everyone else can turn off the heat, but the pipes run downstairs and there's no gauge on it. How do you imagine this system? I'm listening to this story and I don't understand. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U68	If the building management company is a party to the contract, it is responsible for ensuring that the obligations to the heat company are fulfilled. The way money is collected inside the building management company is already the responsibility of the building management company itself. So if five apartments fail to pay, the building management company will go to court with their owners and find out about the law there. But logically, it is not possible that if a housing association has been established on the basis of all apartment property, the rights and obligations will extend to some apartment property and not extend to others. That's what housing associations are for, to do common things by entering into heat supply contracts, insulation of the dwelling, etc. There is no way that any apartment property would be excluded from the insulation project, for example. As far as I know, it will not be possible to start this project at all if most apartment owners do not agree. We still leave things in the responsibility of housing companies, and let's not push these obligations off people. As I said in my speech, it also came out during the Commission's debate, which would give a very wrong signal to all members of the housing association. This would mean that they would no longer be responsible for whether or not the invoices have been paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U69	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It is certainly not normal for a situation like the one that has arisen at the moment, especially in Kohtla-Järve. I agree with you in part that forcing someone to provide a service free of charge is not always reasonable. But do you see any way you can help these people? If you see, what chance would that be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U71	Yeah. This solution is in the hands of the local government. When it comes to a social problem, for example, because of a change in the way people live, there is no money to pay their heating bills, I think I am not mistaken when I say that all municipalities will find a solution to this problem. When it comes to a malicious approach, I think it is inevitable to take the courts and get the money out in court. The initiator of the draft also said in the Committee on Economic Affairs that there are different scenarios. In some cases, this is a real social problem, and the solution, I think, is partnership with local government. But there are also cases where there is a malicious problem. In that case, the local government will certainly not be able to help this malicious person indefinitely, but it will be possible to find out the right in court. To claim that the building management company is not capable enough to take over the courts is certainly wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U72	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U73	Thank you. Honourable performer! It seems to me that you are not very familiar with the structure of the housing associations and the system. The housing company has no way of putting pressure on the owner of the dwelling. But what I'm trying to say is that you're protecting the interests of the heat producer who produces the heat that has to be paid for. At the same time, however, this amendment also protects the interests of the owners of the apartments who have paid but do not receive the service. What is the philosophy of the Reform Party when a person pays but does not receive a service? What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U74	I am not sure that this situation has actually arisen somewhere. Such situations must certainly be analysed on a case-by-case basis in a very specific way. But there can be no way that we will shift responsibility from the housing company to the heat company, whether in Tallinn, Valga, Kohtla-Järve or in any other settlement. If, after all, a very clear approach is taken with maliciousness, the household simply does not pay the bills, even the housing company is a housekeeper, then the members of the household must do something, not delegate these obligations to someone else. The heat company is not responsible for once the building management company is out of control.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U75	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it is very easy to say that municipalities should solve all problems and lend a hand to all those who are in need. Unfortunately, the resources of the municipalities are very precise, they are determined, who can and cannot be assisted. If, as a representative of your coalition, you think that municipalities could be more helpful, will you support the proposal to restore the municipality's former income base from which this good Samaritan can be financed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U77	First of all, I have not approved such behaviour in any of my responses or speeches, but I pointed out that if this is indeed a problem due to the temporary difficulty of people or a somewhat longer-lasting deterioration in the social situation, which makes them unable to pay their heating bills, they have the opportunity to turn to the local government. I have not heard that in some municipalities of Estonia there would have been no support. However, when it comes to a malicious approach, of course, it is a completely different situation and the courts must be taken up. Talking here about increasing the income base of local governments and everything else and connecting these things together is great, but this bill describes the specific situation of one municipality. In this municipality, according to my information, the party that has submitted this draft to the Riigikogu is in power. I do not know whether the local government characters in this hall have examples to show that there is still a situation in other municipalities such that it is not possible to solve this problem in cooperation with the municipality and the housing association. I think we are dealing with a specific case here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U78	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, These examples, which are given in this debate, are not such that one apartment in a large apartment building is in debt. On the contrary, these are apartment buildings where one out of 100 apartment owners pays and the remaining apartments are empty. People don't live there anymore, they've gone to Finland to be Kalevipoeg or somewhere else. But one apartment can't pay the heating bill for a large apartment building. What solution do you propose to such houses?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U80	It seems to me that this is somewhat of a Utration, as you tend to do. I think it's a situation where there's a hundred apartments in the house, but only one apartment pays for the heat, it doesn't really exist. Indeed, as I said here, the district heating law comes back into Riigikogu proceedings as a draft of the government. In a large number of places where there is no prospect of district heating, the state is now providing support for local heating in apartment buildings. In this building management company, where you switch to local heating, this cost is actually divided into 100, 6 or 25 apartments. This cost is shared between all apartment property and the building management company itself shares these costs so that the costs of the boiler house in the basement can be covered. Speaking of Kohtla-Järve, I do not think that the district heating area there is unimaginable. Rather, solutions need to be found that take into account that the owners of the apartment have a legitimate expectation that if they pay bills, they will be provided with heat supply, and the housing associations will be sufficiently capable to ensure heat supply, regardless of the fact that some owners do not pay their heating bills or whether they behave for social reasons or whether they are a malicious approach. In the latter case, it is very clear that it is possible to take up the courts and demand the money through the courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U81	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U82	Thank you. Good performer! I don't think you're really imagining this situation right now. Mothers with young children or elderly people have paid utility payments, but they also live in completely unheated rooms during the great cold. Their health is in jeopardy. They don't have any normal conditions. Which, in your opinion, is the person who lives there and has actually paid his bills or the business interests of the company? How do you think the Chairman of the Housing Association can find these missing people in Australia or Finland? How would he do that? Or could the state still be of help here? How can we find a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U83	I think that the state can help very specifically through local government. If this is the situation you described, it is not possible to believe that the local government will simply turn its back on such people in Tallinn or Kohtla-Järve and allow this situation to continue. Of course, the building management company must go and take a walk to the courts, require this specific owner of the dwelling to pay for these costs. Although he is temporarily in Australia, Finland, or anywhere to do any kind of work, this money must be demanded. There is no way that we are pushing this obligation from the local government and the housing association to the heat company. You also say in your bill that the bill will not be paid at the end of the day, but the responsibility will be passed on to someone else. I think that this approach is not right and it gives a very wrong signal, as if the bills no longer need to be paid. With regard to the claims you put forward, as we in this speech chair would not understand how things are going in the world or what the situation is in some local authorities, I say that we are all from a larger or smaller local government and we understand things very well, despite your understanding that Rallipaar Tuus-Lenk is the only ones who understand how things are going in this Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U84	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U85	Thank you. Dear waitress, Do what you want, but I don't think you understand. I feel that way. What's it got to do with the housing company? There are usually no cooperatives in Estonian villages, in collective farms with apartment buildings. In small towns, there are only service companies serving houses. There's no housing company. What are you guys talking about, actually? We're not talking about housing companies. This amendment is about those people who pay properly for the heat, but you only spin around the same thing, the local government and the people who have left, or those who do not want to pay maliciously. You're not talking about the substance. I don't think you get it at all. After all, we're talking about a person paying, but you can't get a service, but you haven't talked about it today. Don't get involved with housing companies, they don't have to deal with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U86	You seem to be in your mind all the time preparing the center of Media. Your own bill talks about housing associations, that it may be somewhat more difficult for housing associations to go to court because of the high legal costs. It's your own bill. I don't know if your signature's under it. But before you start tagging anyone that nothing has been understood or know how life is going, listen to the debate. It hasn't lasted long, 15 minutes only, and all these facts have been dropped here. What are you slandering and lying about in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U87	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U88	Thank you. Good colleague! The state places such a heavy burden on the local government, but on the other hand, it takes money away from it. Have you ever asked about the size of these reserve funds? There will soon be a situation where local governments will have to pay for electricity, sanitation and all other things related to a person's life. But you said there was a working group set up at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Do you have an overview of who's in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U89	I don't have an overview of who exactly belongs there. But what you described actually responds well to what this debate is about here today. Indeed, not all costs and obligations can be imposed on the local government. That is why it is very important not to give the wrong signal, as it would be someone else's responsibility to cover the costs. That is what I wanted to say with the review of the first-reading debate on this draft. If it really is a social problem, then the local authority must come and help. When it comes to maliciousness, it is necessary to take the courts and establish this case-law. I think that these problems will be easier to solve in the future. If local authorities are not able enough to deal with such problems, this is one of the reasons why an administrative reform is needed, which has now been launched. Municipalities must become more capable and they must develop competence and capacity to deal with such problems and to advise and assist the citizens of the Republic of Estonia in these matters. That is why we are doing this reform. Thank you for bringing it out! You have apprehended the core of the reason why we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U90	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U91	Thank you. I thank you, Kalle Palling, for returning to Valeri Korb a constructive tone! There's no point in taunting each other. But in the case of one of the previous answers, I couldn't help but notice that you accused the Kohtla-Järve City Government of the fact that people were in this situation. If we look at the population, Kohtla-Järve has lost one in four inhabitants in this century. This means that apartments don't have much market value there. The city is in trouble, which cannot be understood by looking at Tallinn, as the number of inhabitants in Harjumaa and Tallinn is increasing. Do you not think that perhaps there is a need to change not the district heating law, but the city needs state support? It hasn't been there so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U92	I can't say that there hasn't been any support so far. But I also thank you for pointing out that the tainting of each other's sharpness does not lead to further discussion! I certainly did not want to blame the Kohtla-Järve City Government, but I pointed out that your party should probably best know what the real situation is there. It's probably part of what you described. Indeed, some apartment buildings are largely empty and some solutions need to be found. But putting responsibility only on a heat company cannot be the solution. This is what this bill is about to say, and I think it can't be right. The solution may come from a draft law on district heating, prepared by the government and laying down the basic principles for the distribution of European money, whereby some district heating regions are declared unopposed and given the opportunity to switch to local heating in these places. Maybe in some part of Kohtla-Järve town, that would be a good solution. But I would not just focus on the problem of one position, but on the problem as such. For example, in my constituency, too, there is currently a district heating area in Kaarepere village in Raplamaa, and the pricing of district heating is regulated by the law imposing price restrictions on monopolies, which has led to the maximum price of district heating. This is obviously not sustainable. Apartment houses have already taken the road to putting local space heaters in them, as the price of district heating is simply exceeding any tolerance limit. The state has chosen such an approach that all municipalities must draw up a district heating area development plan and see if it makes sense for this district heating area to heat five apartment buildings. Shooting from the tree can safely be said that such district heating areas for five apartment buildings and some institutions are unsustainable. The State will create a measure for them in the district heating Act. This measure has a budget of EUR 75 million and will result in a solution being found in a large number of regions where the price of district heating is too much for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U93	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U94	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to remind you that the law imposing price restrictions on monopolies was adopted by your power union in the form of a campaign. As a result, the price of water and heat really increased. Both the Cities Association and EMOL warned that this law does not really serve the interests of the Estonian people. However, I do not recommend getting so upset with Heimar Leng, because his question was very intrinsic and world-viewed: how can Estonia still be in a position to pay for the service, but not receive the service? Finally, are you convinced that this draft will only deal with Kohtla-Järve and that there will be no such problems anywhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U95	I am convinced of this because all the examples that were given both in the Commission sitting and in this Chamber were about the cases in Kohtla-Järve. It has created this conviction. I also turned to this Chamber to see that people who know the situation of local governments somewhere else would, for example, bring other places where this is a fundamental problem, and if there is a temporary question, really, a person does not have any money at some point to pay for their heating bills, then the municipality has not come to the aid. I have not seen these examples. This is what we discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. There is no point in thinking that this was a very simple and easy debate. We moved far beyond the context of this bill and discussed how to ensure a normal price for district heating and how more housing associations could go to court. All of these issues went through the debate, but we have come to the conclusion that this draft deals with individual cases and it is unreasonable to solve this problem in this way. We did not want to underestimate any of the municipalities where these problems exist to a greater or lesser extent. Indeed, thank you also for your question. As I said in my speech, the government has set up a working group to analyse this situation. I say once again that the Government is proposing a draft amendment to the Law on district heating, which lays the foundations for a measure whereby apartment buildings belonging to district heating can be transferred to local heating in some places. In some places, this has already been done, perhaps even somewhat illegal, but this situation and the price of increased heating over reason have caused this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U96	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U97	Thank you! Good waitress! I don't want this hall to sound like a statement that the service has been paid for, but the service is not being provided. It is known that heat is paid for when the heat is obtained. If it is now the situation that heat is not given, then no invoice will be presented. The problem is, man is willing to pay, but he's not given any heat. Hence, man needs to think about alternatives. If he lives alone in a house with a hundred apartments, he is likely to be able to place his money in an electric heating system. Shouldn't these anxious ambassadors give such suggestions to a person?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U98	In the case of the heat supply of apartment buildings, however, the situation is that if a large part of the house is without heating, there are problems in this house other than that some rooms remain cold. That is, of course, a problem, but in the context of the bill, we are talking about whether it is right to push this concern from the shoulders of the building management company and the owner to carry the heat company. I think it is simply not proportionate to delegate this responsibility to a heat company. The fact that problems exist is a reality. Kadri Simson best pointed out here that apartments have lost and are losing their market value, people have moved out of them, and maybe there isn't always a owner to turn to. In Tallinn, you have started a municipal apartment program, perhaps in Kohtla-Järve a similar approach should be taken in some areas rather than trying to push the costs to the thermal company. I can't say that municipal apartments are somehow a devil if they're really needed in some place. Whether they are needed everywhere in this form, as presented, is a separate question. But if the situation is as Erki Savisaar described that a hundred apartments are empty and there is only one resident, why does the City of Kohtla-Järve not offer this person the opportunity to live in municipal housing, even temporarily, until the problem is resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U99	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U100	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, In my opinion, the nature of the problem is somewhere else. If more than 100,000 people have left Estonia and they are expected to leave here, what we are talking about today is actually the result of all of this. If there are fewer people in the house who pay for what they've been using, whether it's heat, electricity or whatever, then the rest of the house will never be used. The market value of this property will be lower than the debts incurred by the service providers. In my opinion, the solution is what I know has already been done in Valga, that people are being put in a house and that these old ghost castles are being demolished. However, this cannot be done without state aid and measures. Here is the legislative and financial side. I'm sure we have to get out there. Otherwise, we will not solve this problem. People need to be relocated because these ghost castles can't stay in the city forever.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U101	Well, that makes sense. If the house is largely empty and it is a social problem, then the local government can make these people live in a better living environment. It can be a municipal apartment or another apartment building that the municipality can support with suitable equipment. The state is helping here exactly the same way. The KredEx Foundation has had a number of measures for years so that apartment buildings can be insulated and people's living environment can be improved in Saaremaa, Valgas, Kohtla-Järvel everywhere. We see apartment buildings all over Estonia where the housing cooperative has been strong enough to undertake a programme to improve the living environment. If your party has managed to build municipal apartments in Tallinn, it is certainly possible to do so elsewhere in Estonia. This is what other political parties do elsewhere in Estonia. Social housing for uninsured families is available in every municipality of Estonia. This is one of the tasks of the municipality: to notice those people who have been in trouble and underinsured for a temporary or prolonged period of time. Tarmo, are you listening? I'm answering you now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U102	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I believe Kohtla-Järve has done everything in his power beautifully. But I'm asking you something else. Do you think that the current regulation is enough to curb chronic debtors, or is there something that needs to be improved? I mean, even if the housing company is weak, the municipality could take over the role of the cooperative and represent this apartment building in court, for example. Perhaps judicial proceedings could also be speeded up or the problem solved by other methods, so that we do not have to go to court. It just takes a lot of time to go to court.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U104	I don't know. This concerns the substance of the draft, but we did not analyse whether this legal environment is sufficient or not. When analysing a specific case, I think that I could start from this to use Heimar Leng's acknowledgment of truth to make sure that Kohtla-Järve has even an apartment association in these apartment buildings. If it does not exist, then the local government should really take the initiative, establish a cooperative and be there. That is the task of the municipality, as I understand it. If people are struggling with problems on the territory of the municipality, it is up to the municipality to try to find solutions to these problems. As far as I know, you are doing this very well here in Tallinn. I also understand, of course, that there is a greater number of voters here and more reason to deal with it. Valeri Korb, your good groupmate, knows the situation in Kohtla-Järve to the last detail. Perhaps he will give an accurate overview of what local authorities can do to resolve this situation in a reasonable way. Surely the solution cannot be to put obligations on someone else's third.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U105	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U106	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to thank you for this substantive debate. There were a lot of interesting questions. I'd like to respond to some of them, if you'll excuse me. But before that, I want to explain a little bit about how it is technically possible to solve this problem. For example, Heljo Pikhof asked a very interesting question as to how it would actually look, whether a separate system had to be built in each apartment in order to be able to turn it off, and whether this would otherwise not be possible. Even without it, it can be done. It is currently the case that a heating company is billing the building management company, of course, if there is a building management company, there are no such accounts. For example, when we talk about this Kohtla-Järve house at 23 Vahtra, where the most serious problem occurred this winter, there is no housing company there. But still, the bill will be issued to the entire house and then the one who deals with billing to the owners of the apartment will simply divide it by square meters. Very simple example: if the bill is 10000 euros, the house has 1000 square metres and the apartment is 100 square metres, then the cost must therefore be 1000 euros, since 10 euros must be paid for one square metre. It is such a simple system that works well, but of course it does not work if some of the owners of the dwelling do not pay. I do not see any problem that the heat supplier could present a direct invoice in the same way to anyone who owns the dwelling. This certainly means an additional burden and an additional risk for the company, but it cannot be said that this is why the price is increasing, because the building management company has already taken the risk and, in any case, the consumer, who uses the service, is ultimately paying for it. I think that if the current proposal had been adopted, the price would ultimately have remained at least the same. For example, in the very house I was talking about, which is located at Vahtra 23, the central heating is off, and the house is just empty. Only one family lives there, the rest of the apartments are completely empty, even the windows have been taken off at times, etc. Is it possible to get more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U107	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U108	Thank you. This means that it is the supplier that will incur the extra costs, because it will have to produce heat anyway. Yes, he spends a little less than spending if the consumer were the house, but the pipelines are there, and that all means that indirect costs are increasing all the time. This was the case when houses were demolished in Kohtla-Järve and the price of heating increased to some extent. So technically, it's quite possible. If we adopt a law, we must not immediately assume that the consumer of the service will not pay anyway. Unfortunately, Aivar Chef has left the hall, but I hope he hears us in his office. I wanted to answer her question. I have a feeling that he is prejudiced that the people of Estonia will not pay for heating unless they have to fear that the central heating will be turned off in their apartment if the problem arises. I think that is not the case, rather the opposite. If direct contracts had been concluded, this would add to the fact that VKG Heat is much stronger on legal matters than small, poor housing associations. As I said, there are houses in Kohtla-Järve where no housing associations are available. In the event of the first problems, VKG Tera could easily contact either the collection company or the court; small housing associations do not have this possibility. I know that Kohtla-Järve's house, located at Vahtra 23, comes to it again, owes about 5,000 euros to the heating company, but there is an apartment that owes 8,000 euros to the community. When I was in that house, the owner of this apartment was just taking away the metal door from his apartment, putting it on the car and driving it away. He's not interested in making anything better. There's a lot of people like this, and there's nothing a housing company can do about them. We've already talked a little bit about Kalle Palling in this hall that the current law states that central heating must not be turned off during the heating period. This provision did not simply arise there. I think you had a long debate in this Chamber when you discussed it and then decided that it was necessary. We must not allow the heating company to behave like this, we must find other ways of influencing debtors, etc. In essence, however, it has happened that the law does not work as it must, since the supplier still found a way to pass this point and how to act so that it does not suffer. But the central heating's still off. Consequently, this sentence that the interruption of the heat supply must not worsen the condition of the apartment property would simply complement the point that was once accepted by you. It would just make this law work as you intended. I don't think we should be against that. Certainly we must also think about entrepreneurs; we must think about the development of life in Kohtla-Järve. After all, entrepreneurs create a great deal of jobs. But we also have to think about people, those who have paid their utility bills properly for years, but now they've just lost their apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-12_U109	Thank you. The representatives of the political groups have no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading. We are going to vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 28 against and 6 abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Draft 176 falls out at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 11.53 a.m.
