ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 5th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Jaanus Karilaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Five members of the Central Party Group have a question to make to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas about exodus in a war situation. At the end of 2015, the Ministry of Defence ordered a study from Turku-Studies AS, which revealed that in a war situation, one in five people living in Estonia would consider leaving here. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Young people under the age of 39 are particularly prone to leave, one in three of whom is considering fleeing Estonia in this situation. In the event of an attack, only 62% of Estonians and 42% of Russian-speaking respondents would be prepared to take the gun and protect Estonia if needed. Of the male citizens, only 72% of the respondents would be willing to defend our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U3	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Honourable Riigikogu! There's a very strong noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and please respect those who want to listen. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U4	Consequently, the threat of war is not very perceived, and it is, of course, positive. On emigration in a war situation, we have four constructive questions for the Prime Minister, and we also expect meaningful answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U5	Good fellows! I don't see any more requests. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Please, let's do the presence check! 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the report on the implementation of Estonia's security policy until 2015. Before we begin, let me give you a brief presentation of the procedure. First of all, the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, will give a presentation for up to 30 minutes, followed by questions. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After that, there are negotiations where representatives of the political groups can take the floor. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. It is a great honour to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U8	Let's say hello.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U9	The chairman was sitting in a hall somewhere. But the honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Excellencys, who have come to hear today's debate! We have reached the stage of implementing the country's security policy set up until 2015 in 2008, where we are taking stock. We are already moving forward on the basis of the new internal security development plan, which has been drawn up until 2020. The aim of the security policy was to have a safer society in Estonia in 2015, reflected in a safer living environment and an increase in everyone's sense of security and a reduction in the number of people killed or injured. Looking back today, we can say that many of the objectives set years ago have been achieved. Honourable Riigikogu! In the next few decades, let me give you an overview of how the core security indicators have changed over the last seven or eight years and what steps have been taken to achieve this. Due to the time constraints, I will certainly not be able to deal with all areas of the subject, which is why, for example, to examine developments in the field of combating terrorism and the protection of constitutional order, I suggest you read the Yearbooks of the Defence Police, from which the new edition will be coming soon. However, the Minister of Justice has traditionally given a more comprehensive overview of criminal matters. At the same time, I am convinced that, in the round of questions and answers, we can address the various areas in quite detail. Now let's get down to business. First of all, people and money. Still because security cannot be guaranteed without people. Currently, the Ministry of the Interior employs just over 8 000 employees, which means that we have reduced staff by about 1600 in the last seven years. The number of employees has fallen the most in the Police and Border Guard Board, which employs 25% fewer people than in 2008. At the same time, I am extremely pleased that last year's rise in the pay of police officers occurred, especially at lower levels. The PPA was given a message that major restructuring would no longer take place, and such a declaration of "work peace" meant that, for the first time since the creation of the PBGB, the ranks of police and border guards did not substantially decrease last year. From this slide, you will see that the average for 2015 compared to the average for 2014 fell quite noticeably. Let me give you the most recent information here. As of 1 January 2015, 5353 people were employed by the Police and Border Guard Board, while as of 1 January 2016 5332 people, in essence, have only fallen by those who have retired. This is a very positive sign for me that we have managed to stop people leaving the Police and Border Guard Board. This has also certainly been helped to ensure that the average salary of police and rescuers has risen, with more money being paid by police and border guards. If we manage to keep the same level in the future, it is already quite good. At the same time, we all need to understand that if we are to provide people with a sense of security at the current level or better, internal security will no longer be able to be thinned. For polished and reformed, let's face it, is quite a lot. Thus, in 2008, the Ministry of the Interior set up an IT and development centre, which was one of the first national IT institutions. However, one of the largest areas of government and I dare to say that the reforms that took place in the context of the entire government administration were also the establishment of a joint institution of the Police and Border Guard Board in 2010. In 2011, the Central Criminal Police was restored as part of the Police and Border Guard Board. In 2012, the Emergency Response Centre became an independent body. In 2013, the rescue squad reform was carried out, and since then there are 72 rescue troops in Estonia. At the same time, we have managed to ensure that professional rescuers reach and even improve those in need. When a life-saving rescue team reached the crash site in an average of 11 minutes in 2011, this time is now 9 minutes, which is the same level as in Finland. As far as money is concerned, it is certainly positive that the amount of money used for internal security increased from 282 million in 2008 to 338 million in 2015, i.e. by 20%. However, if you look at the real growth of the budget, the picture is not so rosy. In these years, the real growth of funds has been 4.3%, i.e., the purchasing power of domestic security has increased more slowly than in the country as a whole. In comparable years, the real growth of the state budget has been close to 30%, and Estonia's GDP has increased by 8.5%. This situation means, in particular, an ageing of technology and equipment in this area. To date, a quarter of our land transport, nearly half of our craft and 14% of our aircraft, have exceeded their useful life and must be replaced. In order to avoid a worse situation, we have, fortunately, been able to use quite a considerable amount of external resources. Thus, for example, external funds and their co-financing amounted to 62% of the investments in the management area between 2007 and 2013. We have used European taxpayers' money in many ways to acquire means of transport. Using state budget money, two new helicopters, a multifunctional ship General Kurvits, a floater for work on Peipsi, new ladder cars and many more were acquired to ensure the safety of Estonian people. If you look at the state of real estate for a moment, the Ministry of the Interior currently uses a total of 330000 square metres of real estate, which is located in more than 400 locations all over Estonia. True, I would always like to invest more in real estate, but it is a fact that during the period 2008-2015, 15 new buildings of 46594 square metres, which is about 14% of the total area of government, were completed for the institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. But once again, there is little room for cuts in internal security. Rather, we face new challenges that require additional resources. After all, we have agreed in the Government Union to increase the rapid reaction force. And, of course, I cannot ignore the development of Europe here. My message is simple: the development of national defence, internal security and internal security must be guaranteed equally when building comprehensive national defence. By default, by betting on one thing, we can fail as a country in other areas. We cannot afford to have a weakness in maintaining democratic rule. Apart from our strong military defence capabilities, our imperative objective is to ensure that people have a daily sense of security with strong police, rescue and border guard. This is where I will continue with the question of the border. In cooperation with the State Forest Management Centre, by the end of last year we were able to clear almost 136 kilometres of border strip and in November the first new border post in Parmu village near the Estonian-Latvian-Russian triple point was established as the beginning of the symbolic Eastern border. By the end of this year, there is a plan to install 705 new border posts on the border. The construction of the Piusa cordon was also completed last year, the Narva border crossing was completed and the Rapid Border Intervention Unit started. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Our goal is clear: to give the country and the people of Estonia the border infrastructure built for its 100th birthday, which would be Europe, but why not the most modern in the world. But it will also require your support, because in addition to the more than EUR 20 million invested last year and this year, the final completion of the Eastern border will require some EUR 55 million from the state budget in the coming years. However, I am convinced that the state and people of Estonia deserve the world's most modern border to face all kinds of challenges. Honourable Riigikogu! Now, the topic that has been the most talked about in the last year. It's migration. Every year, for a variety of reasons, 5,000-7000 foreigners move to Estonia for a shorter or longer period of time. I would like to emphasise: 5000-7000. And in circumstances where we have pursued a relatively conservative migration policy. But a conservative migration policy does not mean that people who want to study, work, do business or otherwise contribute to Estonia's success should be excluded in some way. One of the keys to Estonia's success has been openness and maximum integration with the international community. This is why in recent years we have made it easier for highly qualified specialists to come to Estonia and there is much more flexibility in moving foreign students to Estonia. We have also made it easier for people already living here to apply for Estonian citizenship. For example, all non-citizen children under the age of 15 will automatically receive Estonian citizenship from this year. I am deeply convinced that Estonia's success can only continue if we are open and flexible, while standing on the international stage for our rights and principles. Let this mark, for example, the e-residency that was very well received in other parts of the world the year before, which once again shows Estonia's ability to be innovative. At the same time, state control over digital identity is not lost. Thus, in international communication, we have deliberately chosen the way to be as integrated as possible, to speak with and be involved both in providing innovative solutions and in discussing security issues and in addressing international challenges. One of these challenges is the migration crisis that has undoubtedly hit Europe. Estonia has maintained a clear line in the search for solutions to the migration crisis by supporting stronger control of the European Union's external borders, the establishment of common border guards, effective return and other initiatives to help control migratory flows. Although we have made very sensible decisions to manage the migration crisis at political level, the fact is that there are still problems in practice, as evidenced by the fact that over a million people in European countries applied for international protection last year. And since the greatest pressure on the first host countries is borne by Italy and Greece, Estonia was willing, in solidarity with other European partners, to relocate people from Italy and Greece who are fleeing from war or other atrocities. I agree that there are many different views on migration, but it is humane to understand that people who are forced to flee need a safe place to live. We have the opportunity to help those who really need help together and to stand up not only in Estonia but also in the European Union as a whole for people without international protection to be returned in accordance with agreed rules. Let this be confirmed by the slide before you, which shows the number of applicants for international protection in Estonia as well as the number of beneficiaries of international protection. Those who have not obtained the right to international protection have been expelled from Estonia. Now I return from the international arena to the home camp. Allow me to look at Estonia's readiness to deal with crises. I'll start with a counter-terrorism drill called ATHOS. This proved that international cooperation for security and security is working and our partner countries are ready to come to our aid if necessary. About 100 special forces from different countries arrived in Estonia as ATHOS, and the whole cooperation exercise was very successful. I am especially pleased that this exercise will not be the only one of its kind. This year, a similar exercise will take place and it should be two, maybe even two and a half times the size. This means that we see more than 200 partners in Estonia, at best 500 from Europe and also from the United States. In summary, as a country, we are much better prepared for unexpected events now than we were seven years ago. In 2009, the Emergency Act was adopted, under which a system for resolving crises was established across institutions, i.e. on a broad scale. I will give just one example. In the past, plans concerning marine pollution were made separately by the Rescue Board, environmental authorities, border guards and local authorities, and plans are now being drawn up jointly. We have also identified in the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with our partners, the 14 most important vital services, the uninterrupted provision of which is essential to the state. Parliament will be able to discuss the new version of the Emergency Act, hopefully, before Midsummer Day. When you come back to vital services, I will give just a few examples. These include the provision of electricity and heat, telephone services, data communication, emergency medical care and cash circulation. Last year we conducted a national emergency exercise, CONEX, where we practiced solving different emergencies. At the end of the year, however, a population protection task force was set up at the State Chancellery, whose aim is to create a concept of the protection of citizens across the administration, particularly with regard to military threats and armed conflicts. Continuing with the rescue area, the key words are the undoubtedly reduced number of accident deaths and faster delivery of assistance. Since the beginning of the period of the security policy, the number of both fire and drowning deaths has been on a downward trend. According to Statistics Estonia, 936 people died as a result of injuries in Estonia in 2015, 48 of them died in fire accidents and 68 in water accidents. But let us note here that figures 48 and 68 are about half as much as seven years ago. In my opinion, the reduction in the number of deaths is caused by very active prevention. For example, professional and volunteer rescuers have spent the last two years visiting nearly 23,000 homes and advising people on fire safety. Making the smoke detector mandatory in 2008 and the entry into force of the fast-out cigarette requirement in 2011 have, of course, contributed to the reduction in the number of fires. Over the years, the biggest problems have been drinking alcohol or going to water. According to statistics, nearly half of the drowned people have been intoxicated. In order to reduce this, we have initiated projects in which we invite people not to go in the water drunk and improve children's swimming skills. Over seven years, the Rescue Board's prevention staff, rescuers and volunteers provided a little over 48000 training courses on water safety. It is quite worth recalling here that we can do a great deal ourselves in prevention. I would be very pleased, and I believe that you, too, would have access to swimming lessons for children in schools where it is not currently available. Of course, modern - day methods are also used to teach swimming. Apart from prevention, it is vital that help arrives quickly in order to save lives. I am very pleased that for a little more than a year now, the needy have been able to call the emergency number 112, as well as the rescuers and the police. It seems a simple change, but preparations for this were started as early as 2010. As a result of the reorganisation, the waiting time for people calling the emergency number 112 has halved. Today, slightly more than 90 percent of calls are answered in less than ten seconds. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm going to finish my presentation with a slightly broader view of people's security. There was not much talk about community security in 2008. But the principle of thinking that creating a safe living environment is not just a task for professional police or rescuers was already approved. Residents themselves can do a lot for their own safety. According to last year's survey, 37% of people think that people can play an active role in ensuring the security and survival of their homes. We are very pleased that this figure has increased considerably over the years. It is therefore quite logical that there are considerably more volunteers in Estonia who contribute to security than was the case seven years ago. While in 2008 there were 9270 households voluntarily involved in security in Estonia, there were already over 11500 households last year. The contribution of volunteers has also increased. For example, let the field of salvation be mentioned here. When volunteers participated in rescue events 585 times in 2009, there were times last year when volunteers rushed to help professional people or resolved the situation independently, 3063. Growth has been more than five times. I am deeply convinced that everyone's greater contribution to security has also played a major role in the fact that people's concerns about crime in general have been greatly reduced. If, after the restoration of independence, for years, the main concerns of the population were crime, as you can see from the slide, this figure has now been considerably reduced. In 2007, 21% of households considered crime to be a source of concern in their home country, while in 2015 only 12% thought so. The proportion of people who think that crime is the main problem in our country has also fallen, and this figure has been stable in recent years below the EU average. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This is how every day, working to ensure security, we have reached a situation where 91% of the population think that Estonia is the best place to live and it is safe to live in Estonia. I am very pleased that the people of Estonia trust internal security institutions most of all. Last year's survey showed 95% confidence in the Rescue Board, 90% confidence in the Alert Centre, and 87% trust the Police and Border Guard Board. At the same time, good members of the Riigikogu, the security of each and every one of us together in small matters and the loss of trust, as we know, are very easy to come. I therefore call on everyone to trust themselves, but also to trust the authorities responsible for law enforcement and their work. I do not wish as Minister of the Interior or as an ordinary resident of Estonia to have a self-righteous court or some group spread in Estonia who, by balancing legal and illegal border with their activities, will reduce rather than increase their sense of security. In Estonia there are strong police and highly capable volunteers. Any resident who feels that he wants to increase the safety of people living here is welcome to join the established organisations of the Defence League, relief police or volunteer rescuers. Estonia is and will remain a state of law. Finally, I would also like you to look at the summary publication of the main areas of security policy available to you here, because, as I said, in the time frame, I was not able to deal with all the issues that have been summarised. There's a lot of reading here, and I really suggest you read this publication. Similarly, I recommend that you read a forward-looking summary, i.e. an internal security development plan up to 2020. For my part, however, I would like to quite conclude by thanking all the people who have made Estonia's life safer, both from behind the desk and every day, by creating security on the streets of Estonia. Thank you to all people for their contribution to making Estonia safer, including the Riigikogu, who has helped to adopt a great many important laws, including law enforcement law! Have a good debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U10	Honourable Minister of the Interior! Thank you very much for your thorough presentation. We hope that you will also participate in the next debate. You have a lot of questions. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U11	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The question is not so much about the past as about the future and today. Recently, the security of the Estonian people has been quite disturbed by the widespread hate speech, mental harassment and all kinds of illegal appeals that destabilise society. Yesterday's 'Spectator' pointed out the threats made to people known in Estonia. What are your thoughts on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U12	I'm worried. I am concerned that there is a growing perception in Estonia that insulting another person, taunting another person, calling violence against another person is something that can be done. That's a concern. As society evolves, opportunities have widened over the years to remain anonymous on social media and simply to insult people indiscriminately. That is very regrettable. How can it be legally regulated? I very much hope that the Ministry of Justice will come to Parliament as soon as possible with the amendments to § 151 of the Penal Code. There have been two cases in Estonia where the sentence has been imposed on the basis of § 151. As we know, § 151 (1) of the Penal Code treats incitement of hatred as a misdemeanour and § 151 (2) of the Penal Code as a criminal offence. In both cases, one procedure is pending. We will see what the court will take, and then we will also be able to draw conclusions as to whether the document that is being prepared at the Ministry of Justice still needs to be improved or not. But I believe that the great hall of the Riigikogu must also think very seriously about how to formulate the Penal Code with provisions on incitement to social hatred and persecution of people not only in the physical world, but also in the virtual world. Discussions on this issue are certainly ahead of us in this Chamber, and I hope that not only the Committee on Legal Affairs, but also the other Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs will state their position on how it is necessary to change Estonia's legal space in order to prevent people's senseless accusations or incitement to hatred in the online environment as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U13	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U14	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your interesting presentation. According to this report, over 12,000 reports of close relationship violence were received by the Police and Border Guard Board during the past year, which is 30% more than in 2014. This shows that people's awareness in this area has increased and, fortunately, more help is being asked. Members of the group on prevention of near-term violence and support for victims have decided to go to schools to talk about this, and I know that the police will do the same. Could you please point out the main activities of the PBGB aimed at preventing close relationship violence?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U15	Thank you for your question. I am very pleased that the members of the Riigikogu have taken close-relationship violence as a subject and are going to introduce it. I recommend that you take up pages 15 to 17 of this book, even 18, which focuses only on close relationship violence. The violence in the immediate relationship, as we know, is a rather latent form of crime. This means that one big step is that people have started to trust the police more. This is also demonstrated by one study, according to which 48% of people responded that the police are the first place to seek help if there is a problem with close-relationship violence. So awareness has grown, as you rightly said. If you look at what has been done specifically, all the activities in previous years have been well outlined here. An example is the "KiVa' anti-bullying programme already under way and the VEPA game of behavioral skills over the next six years. Similarly, we have used international practice when using new models, for example, there is a UK-based MARAC programme, which is short for Multi-Agency Risk Assessment Conference. It is also very useful and good for 20 young people launched at school with the 'Expect- respect I know Abuse Toolkit' active learning programme. Unfortunately, these are all English names, we have not found them very good Estonian equivalents, but what matters is content. And the essence is that more and more people are becoming aware of the violence in their relationship. Let me give you another example. In my opinion, this is a very important PPP operation. These programmes have been implemented together, but since 2014 the PBA has introduced a "reporting environment" for risk individuals and families: they have mapped out families that need special attention. At present, 18,000 risk individuals, including 2,300 minors and 6600 households in the order of magnitude, are at particular attention. We are talking about families with more than two cases of domestic violence during the year. These maps have been made in cooperation with municipalities. This is also a result of the fact that such communication at the level of the individual gives a much better result. The most difficult result of close-relationship violence is killing or murder and their number has fallen to five since 2011, when it was 17, last year. This is perhaps the best example of the impact of this measure. But, as I said, the violence in the relationship is quite latent, and there is still, and there is, a lot more to do in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U16	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U17	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I thank you for your thorough review and congratulate you on your action in this area, which is not an easy area. I think you've done very well. But my question concerns the rescuers and the police. When I look at the figures in this book that we have been handed over to us, I see that the number of relief officers has decreased three times in the last seven years, while the number of volunteers has increased three times. So, on the one hand, the tendency is good, on the other hand, it's bad. Are there any ideas to involve help police officers more? We know that alternatives are emerging in the street. On the other hand, the differences in the wages of the rescuers and the policemen began to stand out for me. The wages of the rescuers are still relatively much below this curve, and the pay curve goes up more sharply. Are there any positive developments to be expected from the rescuers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U18	First of all, help with the police. You gotta get a little star on the auxiliary police numbers. The 2008 figure of 3000 auxiliary police officers is clearly linked to the April 2007 riots. During the riots in April, very many people came to the Estonian relief police in one night or two or three days. However, a very large number of these people from there have not contributed to the work of relief policemen, for reasons that are perfectly understandable every day. There was an urgent desire to help the country, and the country took advantage of this opportunity, but when the normal security situation was restored, a very large number of people no longer wanted to take part in the work. For me, the trend of the last three years is important. The number of people who contributed daily to law enforcement as an assistant police officer was about 800 in 2013. There has actually been a steady increase from there to there, and by the end of last year we reached 1000. It is important that the number of people who are independent assistant police officers, i.e. IPAPs, has increased within this thousand. If we look at the number of hours worked by auxiliary policemen, we can see that it has increased more than the number of auxiliary policemen. So these people are much more active than the 3,000 who were, in fact, merely "auxiliary police with a sign." I am absolutely convinced that this trend is moving up and that the relief police body is doing a very good job of setting an example and inviting more people to join the relief police system. By saving ourselves voluntarily, we will try to put more emphasis on quality in the future. We carefully look at the white points on the map of Estonia, which mark the regions where the aid is far away. In the case of voluntary rescuers, the goal is not simply to get more, but to get them to act in places where the aid goes beyond professional commandos. As far as salaries are concerned, it is true that we have been able to raise salaries significantly faster in the police and border guard system. This is mainly because the police have been reorganizing internally. It is by internal restructuring that the reduction in the number of police officers has enabled those who remain to be more motivated. In terms of saving, the fall in composition has been smaller and, therefore, the increase in the pay of rescuers has been linked to the amount of wage money that has been allocated more from the state budget. It's more or less correlated. But I agree that we also need to see how wages can be picked up in the rescue system. For example, we only reached 2008 levels last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U19	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U20	Good morning, Minister of the Interior. Impressive figures reflect voluntary sea rescue and the contribution of volunteers at all. Also, this average rescue in nine minutes is excellent. Unfortunately, I have to say that the smaller islands have a sadder picture. Probably in cities, this time is even shorter, maybe it will take four to five minutes. But the situation on the islands is pretty serious and thought-provoking. For example, it took 13 hours to deliver a seriously injured man from Kihnu to a doctor before Christmas last year. You can't always catch a chopper. This year, one of the knuckles is dead in the chopper. Until the chopper gets to the island, it'll be an hour and a half, sometimes two. It is particularly sad, however, to think about Kesselai in 48 days for no human to go there or come from there because of the lack of the necessary technology. Wouldn't you think a little bit about the small islands, especially during the administrative reform? How can we ensure that there are tools in place to deliver a sick person or other needy to the mainland as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U21	Good questioner! We've been as open as possible. If you take the same book on page 55, here is a rescue so-called card application, from which you can see how quickly we reach the area. It is an honest record of how we have placed our rescue officers, and it is undoubtedly based on where the greatest risks lie. In places where there are more people, the risks are higher and there is also a greater presence. As far as the small islands are concerned, I agree with you a hundred percent that the situation can be improved. If I take the last eight years, which is our reporting period, in seven or eight years, both the small islands programme and other measures have developed marine rescue and other rescue capabilities on the ground. It has also been possible to improve on the ground the ability of 'fast medical care'. The picture is certainly not what we would all like to see, but it must also be admitted that our small islands have very different population density. Some have 5, some have 50, some have 500 inhabitants. As one measure, we are considering whether we should perhaps acquire an additional helicopter that would only be intended for rescue. The current three helicopters, Alfa, Bravo and Charlie, or AgustaWestland, are still primarily designed to provide SAR capability and perform all tasks. The Ministry of Social Affairs also thinks that if the state's capacity is increasing, we would actually need a classic rescue or ambulance helicopter. This would certainly help to improve the security of the small islands as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U22	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for your presentation and for your appreciation for your progress. My question is also about salaries. It is extremely unfair that the pay for police and rescue services is so different. If we look at the base year 2010, the saviors will have a rise of 100 euros, the police will have 400 times as much. I understand that the internal restructuring of work is one option; the police now have 1,500 fewer people. But if the number of rescuers is reduced by 1,500, there will be no one left. Thus, using internal resources, no solution can be found. That's not what I'm talking about. The social guarantees provided by law are completely different for the police and the rescuers. My question: is it possible to break this trend? Could the proportion of these pay curves change in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U24	It's a very simple answer. There are two ways of exponentially raising the pay of rescuers: (a) additional contributions are being made to this area; (b) internal restructuring is being carried out. There are no other options. It's as simple as that. Looking at the two indicators that characterise the rescue system, the number of people working in the rescue system has been very stable. There hasn't been any more retirement since school. Stable figure 2000, 2050, 2300 rescuers have lasted very long. What are the benefits of the rescue system? For rescuers, the only distinction allowed in Estonia is to work 24-hour shifts and the voluntary turnover of rescuers is very, very low, around 3%. These are additional factors to be taken into account for the rescue system. But, of course, if a man goes to save a life, if he goes into a fire, for example, then his motivation must not be influenced by the fact that he has to worry about his pay every day. So, of course, work has to be done on this, but I repeat, when making choices, it must also be taken into account here in the big hall that these are the two ways to raise wages. We are now overestimating the capacity of our rescue system and seeing if we are operating optimally there, whether there is still room for restructuring or not. But I agree that, by reducing the Rescue Board's support system, it would not be possible to save enough to exponentially raise the pay of the rescuers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U25	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U26	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Stalin had a nice saying in the 1930s that life has gotten better, life has gotten more fun. I listen to your report and understand that life in Estonia has become better and more fun. In fact, in your speech, you said more than once that the task of the state is to ensure security and security. Feel is an emotional category, right? But sometimes it's what it looks like about things, even more important than the way things really are. Do you not think that you have failed to ensure a sense of security when people in Estonia become Odin's soldiers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U27	It seems to me that you and I have completely different opinions in this regard. If you're quoting Stalin, I'm quoting the facts. If you consider the emergence of Odin's warriors to be justified, I think it is right that the Estonian relief police system and other police system ensure the security of the Estonian people. If your party members believe that the solution is to join some illegal groups that balance legal and illegal borders, then I suggest that both you and all other members of the Riigikogu think in a reasonable way about ensuring the security of Estonia. If anyone wants to contribute, please! Come and be an assistant police officer! First, of course, everyone's background will be examined, whether or not a person is fit to protect the Estonian people. You don't need to create more insecurity. In my opinion, groups that are not legally legal in any way and have not legalised themselves have not registered as an NGO, for example, although, as far as I know, they want to do so, do not create more security, rather the opposite. I feel safer when I know that somebody is going to act in some groups in Estonia somewhere, and I don't know what their goals are.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U28	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of the Interior! I admit that some progress has been made in securing internal security, but listening to your presentation, my thoughts returned to history. In fact, one day I had to study the material of the 26th Congress of the NLKP, and it reminds me of the rhetoric you used in your report. Well, there's a few shortcomings. I'm not convinced by such beautiful talk. What metrics have you built on and how many units of internal security increased over the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U30	As I said in my report, we measure what people feel, how they feel about their security. And these numbers I brought before you, which reflect the views of the Estonian people on security. I also suggest you read this book. You see a lot of different indicators. For example, the number of drug deaths has fallen from 170 in 2012 to 82 in the previous year. Similarly, the overall number of crimes and offences has decreased. If you do these figures, you'll get an objective picture. An objective picture provides an opportunity to assess the status of the statistical indicators. We have more relief police, we have more volunteers, and the overall situation has improved. If you're saying you're not, we're in different opinions. I rely on statistics and what the Estonian people themselves have said. Of course, I'm not saying that the situation is super, none of us are saying it. Of course, we have to work every day to make it even safer to live in Estonia. But if I compare 2008 and 2015 on the basis of objective indicators, then the number of drowning deaths, fire deaths, road deaths, all of them, has gone down. Consequently, when all these figures have gone down, life has become safer in a broader sense: on the roads, on the streets, in homes and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U31	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U32	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Dear Minister, Thanks for the report. I very carefully browsed this summary book, but unfortunately I have to admit that I did not find there the implementation of the plan of the Pärnu internal security joint building. I'm a little sad about that. But at the same time, I know it's probably in the future plans. Now I want to ask you directly what the situation is. When will modern working conditions be created for our people in Pärnu County so that internal security can be further improved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U33	This is, very briefly, the case. The decision taken by the Government of the Republic in 2013 to build a new joint building in Pärnu is valid. The week before last, I met the mayor of Pärnu, we discussed the last details, and our sketch is basically locked. Given the financial possibilities, we have drawn a little bit of the needs of the police, rescue and bomb squads and others from all sides. Unfortunately, we have to fit into the money frames we have. The plan is to try to get the projects ready by the end of this year, knock out next year and by the end of 2018, the common house in Pärnu would be ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U34	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Preventing the internal security of the country and the security of the individual is very important, as you emphasised in your speech. There are simple rules: don't go to bed with smoke, drive drunk, or swim. They are understandable and seem easy to remember. Yesterday, however, there was a first-reading draft concerning the speed and possibilities of registering new narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. It was noted that new narcotics and psychotropic substances are being introduced into the market very quickly. How do you assess prevention in this area so that young people do not take drugs? And is it conceivable that Estonia would have zero tolerance to entering the drug market? Or is it already?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U36	I very much support the fact that the draft that you discussed yesterday could be adopted quickly as a law. It allows the formation of groups of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and thus allows psychotropic and narcotic substances to be rapidly added to the list of prohibited substances. So far, it has been rather arduous because each new substance, if only a few less important chemical elements have changed in its composition, must be added separately. I therefore very much support the rapid adoption of this draft as a law. As far as prevention is concerned, it is never too much for drugs. At the same time, I am deeply convinced that the best preventive work at home is prevention. Schools can fix this possible hole, but without homework may mean that young people do not understand what a drug is, how it works and what it involves. If this job is missed at home, it will be very difficult to do something in the school environment. Young people in puberty can easily be pressured by pressure on the spirit of the gang. However, this does not mean that we do not work against drugs. I'm sure they will. Of course, the police, together with local governments and various organisations, will continue to work to reduce the use of drugs and psychotropic substances in Estonia. I very much hope that, in the coming years, we will continue to have the trend of fewer drug deaths. In the last three years, this figure has fallen nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U37	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Minister of the Interior! As a volunteer savior, I can say that I am only delighted that the number of volunteers has grown. There are enough smart people in Estonia who know how to actually ensure internal security. Each coin has two sides. Local authorities play a very important role in ensuring internal security. I can claim from my personal experience that in many local governments, as well as in rural governments, crisis plans are very general and on paper just for getting a little bit of mail. There are people assigned to the crisis committees who have no real knowledge of how to regulate and manage action in a crisis situation. What can the Ministry of the Interior do to look into the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U39	This is one of the themes that we really have a little heart when we look not only at crises but also at emergencies within the meaning of the Emergency Act. After all, an emergency can turn into a crisis. Of course, ordinary people understand that mass slaughter of pigs is also a crisis. In fact, certain guidance materials already exist in several ministries, not just the Ministry of the Interior. New emergency plans are underway. For example, last year's CONEX exercise gave us a very clear picture at national level of what we need to do further, and the Crisis Commission of the Government of the Republic also gave the ministries clear tasks that need to be done and by what time. At the next meeting of the Committee on Crisis, we will get a new overview of how far we have come. From there on, it is quite logical that the crisis plans will also be reviewed in the municipalities. At a small seminar last week, a rural municipality elder nicely said that a long and thorough crisis plan is not really needed in a small area, a resource plan is needed. If it exists, there is a great deal to be solved. We do not need crisis plans because of a tick, we need local governments to draw up short and concrete plans so that they know where to turn if they need help. It may also happen that the municipality itself is short-handed and must ask for additional capacities at national level. So, above all, a mapping of resources is needed. Once the municipal reform is completed, the capacity of the local authorities to deal with crises will certainly be significantly greater. Let us admit that if there is a small rural area, for example, with a population of 700, its budget does not allow all concerns to be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U40	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I'm looking at this paycheck here. When I asked that question to your loyal subordinate, Elmar Vaher, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, he became very upset and started waving his hands. Let's hope you stay calm. Here's the question. There's only been a raise here, really, running very nicely. At the same time, I know that, until the end of 2015, when a couple of wage increases at the border guard seemed to have occurred, people did not increase their income, because the extra payments were deducted. Why are you puzzled by presenting to the public a table that shows no actual income? It must be a template in your company.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U42	I'm sorry, Mr Kaskpeit, but here you are confusing and misleading the Estonian people. The statistics we bring before you still reflect the salaries paid out, i.e. the total payments to the people. And the total payment is also subject to taxes in Estonia. Of course, it's different from work to work. This year, too, we made a distinction, for example, for border guards working in the south-eastern region, with an additional regional fee, which I believe Mr Kaskpeit also knows. Similarly, regional charges were increased for border guards and police officers working in Ida-Virumaa. So if you want accurate data, I have no reason to start waving my hands. If you wish, we will take care of the tables, review them, and you will see the salaries of all those in the service. No problem, these data are public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U43	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U44	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! A very important structural change will remain in this period, namely the consolidation of police and border guards. In the coming months, the National Audit Office will be coming up with an audit to assess how this process has gone. Can you do a quick SWOT analysis today and mention three good results that have been achieved thanks to this unification? And what are three shortcomings that should be addressed in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U45	Yes, I have seen the initial plan of the National Audit Office, because it makes sense that the National Audit Office always asks for feedback on the proposals they have made. We have submitted our proposals to the National Audit Office and I do not think it is appropriate for me to present the report of the National Audit Office to everyone at the moment. But I'm trying to give you some clues. One major conclusion of this is that it is positive and negative, with the exception that although real estate resources have been significantly reduced, the amount of money spent on real estate has not decreased. This is mainly because we have transferred assets to the RKAS and there were no high capital and depreciation costs in the past. All of this is understandable because we want to have new buildings and that is how capital needs to be accumulated. One of the things that the National Audit Office considers definitely needs to be improved in the PBA is the organisation of rotation. People should rotate more between different positions. What's positive? The combination of all support services has certainly improved considerably. But I suggest we wait for the audit. The National Audit Office will also introduce it to the Riigikogu. After that, I am prepared to give exhaustive comments and explanations justifying the state of affairs, as well as to talk about my observations. Right now, I don't want to take credit for the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U46	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Last year more than one million immigrants came to Europe, and the European Commission is forecasting three million this year. As long as the external borders of the European Union are open and Frontex and EUNAVFOR Med are engaged in the transport of immigrants to Europe instead of combating trafficking in human beings and no other measures have taken place, there is no hope that the situation will improve. Many ministers and other leaders of the European Union, including the President of Finland, have expressed the opinion that the international refugee conventions are out of date...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U47	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U48	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U49	... does not correspond to the actual situation and must be tightened up. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U50	I believe that the agreements that we have concluded at international level, in particular at European Union level, must be implemented. If we were to be able to implement these agreements at political level nicely, migration flows could certainly be better controlled. And it is not just the level of the European Union that matters. It is extremely important that the European Union as a whole, through its External Action Service and other organisations, deals daily with what is happening beyond the borders of the European Union. If we take the fact that last year a million applications for international protection were made in Europe, and more than one million applications for international protection mentioned in my speech, this is far from comparable to the situation in the three neighbouring countries of the European Union, Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. There are about seven million refugees in the Turkish, Jordanian and Lebanese camps. So the situation is certainly very difficult and Turkey has other major problems. To put it very briefly, it is indeed, in a broad sense, essential to resolve the situation in Syria in international cooperation. In a narrower sense, the aim is to implement the decisions taken by the ministers of the European Union in any event: the establishment of a common border guard office, the control of borders, the identification of persons, the return of persons who are not entitled to international protection. It all has to be done. Of course, then it is possible to talk about the fact that migratory flows are under better control. As far as international conventions are concerned, this is already the subject of the United Nations debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will try to fit two questions into one question. One is about children. You briefly touched on children's swimming skills. My question is driven by the fact that we need to teach children to swim very well early in order to reduce drowning deaths. Both the Rescue Board, the Estonian Swim Association and our lifeguards have pointed out in the report that the current arrangements do not give us any certainty in this regard. There are many reasons, however, for the lack of swimming pools and teachers, the lack of methodology and training may not be affordable. What actions have been planned to improve this situation? The other part of the question concerns the protection of the elderly and of the fire safety of welfare institutions at all. The Rescue Board is busy controlling the institutions and discovering violations. What steps have been planned, and has it been decided to allocate money to improve the situation? It's expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U52	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U53	Both questions are a little out of my jurisdiction, but I'm trying to answer as far as I know. As far as swimming training is concerned, our support for expanding it is undoubtedly there. No question! The question is more about how great our common chances of finding extra money from the state budget are and what we do with the volume of swimming lessons. After all, one of the greatest reproaches has been that we teach children to swim according to school programs for only 20 subjects. I'm sorry, if I'm wrong, maybe it's 40 subjects, but it's only 20. If we want to increase it, the main concern of the Ministry of Education is that the curriculum is already pretty full. If we start adding additional elements, for example, if we want to expand national defence or swimming teaching, or if we want to add certain elements to social education, then the volume of the curriculum will be the issue. As far as I know, however, the Minister of Culture is also planning to raise the issue of swimming lessons during the negotiations on the country's budget strategy. So we are trying to find a reasonable way forward, either by simply increasing the allocation of money or by changing the curriculum. As far as welfare institutions are concerned, the main responsibility lies with those who own one or the other institution. If the institution is a municipality, it is a matter for the municipality, if it is a private welfare institution, then it is the private owner's concern. Of course, the Rescue Board is supervising, it's supposed to. Care centres are under our increased attention and it must be taken into account that there are also people who find it difficult or impossible to move. Here is an example of this: We have helped to acquire drag mats. You will also find a picture of the theme of drag mats in this book. But of course that's not all. Certainly, in my opinion, the existence of nursing homes must be taken into account in the decision-making of rescue teams. For example, I do not see the possibility of shutting down Dog's rescue team, even though its load is relatively low. But Koeru Nursing Home is one of the largest institutions in Estonia, there are nearly 1000 wards. So these are the factors that we need to take into account. One part of this work is supervision, the other is our planning and the third, of course, daily communication with owners in order to ensure fire safety in these houses.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, there's a little bit of a hoax on my part. I do not agree that EKRE members support the emergence of groups such as Odin's warriors. Personally, I am categorically opposed to this. But now to the question. It was nice to hear that our land border with Russia has almost been fixed until the post of this white three country. But do you have any information on how the Latvians feel about this thing? This is partly about our security. Has the Latvian-Russian border been adjusted beyond that white post? They should be a long way ahead of us because they've signed a border treaty a long time ago. What's the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U55	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U56	Mr Sild, I very much hope that you will be able to enforce your position in the EKRE as a whole and the EKRE, as a party, will take the view that groups like Odin's warriors are not a reasonable way of trying to guarantee security in Estonia, but are considered right to use legal means. As far as the Estonian border is concerned, I am certainly not satisfied with the situation that we currently have. We still have a long way to go before Estonia has a very modern border - the best that we can have. But you had a specific question about Latvia. I have been in contact with my Latvian colleague several times. The Latvians also have problems, their money is not as good as we have planned. I very much hope that we can move forward with our planned actions. As far as I am concerned, Latvia wants to spend EUR 20 million in three years, in the order of size of EUR 2016, 2017 and 2018 to make the border safer with Russia and Belarus. So, yeah, they do, too. In our conversation, the Latvian minister told me very nicely that Estonia has given them a good boost. I very much hope that we will maintain the same line and that both the Estonian and Latvian borders with Russia will be very well guarded.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U57	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much for your thorough presentation, Minister. The day before yesterday, Estonia participated for the fourth time in a global joint dance action to condemn violence against women. It is true that one in three women in Estonia has been exposed to physical or sexual violence during their lives. Five years ago, the Council of Europe adopted a very important document on the elimination of violence against women, the Istanbul Convention. My question is: as a former Minister for Social Affairs and Justice and as the current Minister for the Interior, can Estonia, starting the Presidency of the Council of Europe in May, manage to ratify the Istanbul Convention this year? I also recall that one of Estonia's three priorities during the Presidency is gender equality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U59	According to my memory, the organisation of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention is even included in the government agreement. If that's what we have in the government agreement, then we'll do it. I haven't found any agreement in the government treaty that we want to ignore. We want to do everything. The ratification papers of the Istanbul Convention have been prepared in the Ministry of Justice and are moving towards Parliament. I don't think there's anything else to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U60	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U61	Thank you! Dear Minister, In your review, you lacked some information on how jobs have been filled. How many vacant posts do we have in the police? Police officers are known to work well with local governments everywhere, especially with social workers and child protection workers, but they are often in trouble because they simply lack people. It is also not known that in 15 years we will have a 30,000 reduction in the number of people. Young men just don't get on, boys are less born and the number of women is falling. What about our jobs at the police? Is that a problem? There are fewer admissions to these schools, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U62	I'll start at the very end. I don't quite agree with the fact that there are fewer admissions to these schools. The places we've ordered at the academy have been well filled. Last year was very good in that sense. In the previous year, for example, we needed an additional competition to complete the border guard study places, but last year it was overfilling. I would very much like to congratulate the academy on all the training, as it has made a major contribution to promoting pre-school education in the field of internal security. The next school we're signing an internal security pre-school is Keila. This work has produced a very good result. The number of people who have completed pre-school education for internal security is constantly increasing among those who are going to study at the National Defence Academy and this is very good. As far as unfilled places are concerned, I do not think it matters how many places have not been filled. The important thing is how many places have been filled. Last year, the Police and Border Guard Board, as I said in the report, managed to reach a very small reduction in the number of employees. In previous years, hundreds of people were going. Last year's total number decreased by 20, and it's still a very small loss. In particular, people who have retired have left. I believe that emphasis should be placed on who is working for us, and that we can ensure that there are sufficient succeedings and, of course, that there are no voluntary departures from the Police and Border Guard Board, so that the people who have come to serve the Estonian state and the people remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U63	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U64	Thank you, good Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu! Good minister! I will mention in the reply that, before the party can take any positions, we need solid facts and knowledge about what we are taking a stand on. There is no point in narrating or judging. And if anything is illegal, whether there are any groups or initiatives, it is necessary to state what is illegal, under which paragraph something is illegal. However, my question concerns migration problems. You mentioned at a relatively early stage that there are 5 000.7000 people coming to Estonia with different goals each year. Who needs to learn who to work, who to work for other reasons. Can you give an approximate percentage of the reason why someone has come to Estonia? How much has come here as a skilled labour force, how much as a student, how much has the desire to unite a family? And what have the main countries of origin been?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U65	I'll definitely find these numbers after, and then I can say the exact percentages. Yeah, that's all we got by type. The slide I had in this presentation reflected those who came from the European Union. However, the exact percentage distribution of those who come from outside the European Union is also known. If we are only talking about international protection, then around 40% of Ukrainians apply for international protection. While we are also talking about other immigrants, i.e. the 5000-7000 people, labour migration, family migration and learning mobility are the main reason for these three to form an absolute majority. A very small part asks for a residence permit for entrepreneurship. We certainly want to increase this proportion; we want the number of residence permits for business to increase. One way is to consider the introduction of a start-up residence permit. Looking at the countries of origin, our immediate neighbours still make the biggest contribution, both within the European Union and outside the European Union. Outside the EU, people come from Russia and Ukraine, as well as Bangladesh, Sudan, Eritrea and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U66	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns the Rescue Board, whom I would like to congratulate for having understood very well that it is always cheaper and more reasonable to prevent it than to deal literally with fire-fighting. There are about 30 people in the Rescue Department who are directly involved in prevention. Does the planned redundancies in the agencies, which have been mentioned, affect these 30 people? How's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U68	I have not, in principle, written down to the agencies and the directors-general of the agencies how to restructure if necessary. The only precept last year was that the Police and Border Guard Board was not involved in the task of redundancy. In all other agencies, it is up to them to decide how they organise their work and what is most appropriate to change, whether it concerns support systems or some basic area. In the rescue work, however, prevention is not limited to the obligations of these 30 people; prevention is actually carried out by all 2,200 rescuers. Home visits are a very large part of prevention. Rescuers install smoke detectors as well as, if necessary, repair fireplaces, be they stoves, stoves, or other fireplaces. These people have visited 23000 homes in the last three years and have made a huge contribution, perhaps even far greater, than the 30 people who plan prevention. Of course, planning is very important, but everyday real communication with schools and going home is what gives us real results. I believe the Rescue Board will continue this direction that everyday professional rescuers are also daily professional prevention workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U69	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I think you should make it very clear to yourself what the difference is between a completely legitimate citizens' initiative and illegal formations. The position taken by our party towards the Odin Warriors is not supportive or acceptable, but we are questioning the hysterical hate speech of the government representative. Gentlemen, don't be hysterical. It doesn't increase society's sense of security. My question comes from the same. Thousands of people, mainly Russian, are concentrated in various gun and shooting clubs. Are these illegal formations or are they a legitimate citizens' initiative? Are they a threat to society or increase our sense of security?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U71	It seems to me that the only issue of last eight years' security policy that interests the EKRE in this Chamber today is the recently emerging Odin Warriors. The proportions are definitely out of place. But to come to your question: If people want to make a partnership, of course they have that right. Every association must respect the laws in force in Estonia and the rule that other people are respected. As far as different gun clubs are concerned, as has already been said in the course of an inquiry, they operate on a different legal basis. Some are gun clubs or shooting clubs, others are concentrated under the name of an NGO, for example. These people have legal weapons. And that's exactly how you take them. Are these connections under control or not? Of course there is, whether we are talking about a gun club, shooting club or some other group that either creates an NGO or not. Everyone must comply with the laws in force in Estonia. If there is a mistake, the law enforcement unit will react, which in Estonia is called the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U72	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U73	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I have a very specific question about building a border. What is the state of play in the disposal of the land concerned? From time to time, information goes through that there is still somewhere beyond the dogtail and that some of the landowners of South-East Estonia have not been able to reach agreements. What's the status now? It's probably better known to you than to me, who I've been limited to information published in the press. Here's the question. Let me get this straight. After the border has been constructed, the main guarantee is that we will not have illegal border crossings, video and other electronic information that we will receive from the border?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U74	Starting at the end: no, video and other electronic tools are additional tools. A pretty significant part of the border also comes with physical barriers, both in the form of an animal garden and in the form of a 2,5 metre high welded mesh fence. Certainly not just electronic aids. As far as land transfer is concerned, information a few weeks ago is that there are still negotiations with 26 landowners, 13 of whom are from Võru County, 13 from Põlva County. That's the state of play. Perhaps by now some disputes have already been resolved. In any case, the goal is that we should not go out on expropriation. We are trying to find a reasonable compromise between the wishes of the resident and the needs of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U75	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Professional rescuers are concentrated in larger centres and it is logical that in order not to deteriorate elsewhere, it is necessary that volunteers take part in the tasks. I'm interested in the speed at which help arrives. Does this statistics cover the average time of arrival of all volunteers and professional rescuers? And where were the reserves that could be reported in 2020 that we were already there a minute before the fire started? Maybe there's more of those reserves?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U77	These statistics reflect the arrival of life-saving commandos by highly qualified commandos. We don't have any smoke diving capabilities yet, but life-saving capabilities also require smoke diving capabilities. The statistics shall include professional commandos with an average time of arrival of nine minutes. As to whether there are reserves, there certainly are. The better a network of volunteers and the more capable volunteers become, the more likely we will be to save lives. But as for whether we're over the fire a minute before the fire, we've been there 23,000 times in the last three years, more than a minute before the accident, we've been going out and doing prevention work. We've checked people's homes and installed smoke detectors there if necessary. It's all about not having to drive out when the red rooster is out of the roof, so people don't die and their property is kept.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U78	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns the part of the citizenship policy of the security policy, namely the situation in which the Constitution does not allow us to take away Estonian citizenship from anyone who is born, but in the Citizenship Act there is still the principle that a child whose parent is an Estonian citizen and another, for example, a Swedish, Australian or German citizen, must essentially choose between his mother and father and renounce one citizenship when he is 18 years old. Understandably, this situation makes no sense, and I think it could be changed so that a child who is born with two citizenships should no longer make that choice when he or she is 18 years old. The security policy chapter also states that it will continue to be an important issue of citizenship policy. What kind of solution are you in the Ministry of the Interior, and when will we get to the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U80	There are two different sides to this answer. In the first, I say my subjective personal position. My subjective personal position is definitely that the Estonian Constitution is sacred and that no one can be deprived of the citizenship granted to him by birth. Similarly, in today's globalising world, I personally find the principle that a person cannot have two citizenships rather unreasonable. A very large number of countries in the world allow double citizenship, some also allow more than double citizenship. Putting people on the line seems inappropriate. Why does a young person aged 18 have to choose whether he is an Estonian or an American or a German? I am therefore very much in favour of the Estonian state legitimising double citizenship at least at birth. It is also possible to talk about the fact that there is no such conflict between the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the Citizenship Act. Now, coming to the other side of the answer, this is definitely the deal for this big hall. We know that our political parties have different views on this issue, but if they are prepared to support the idea in the Riigikogu plenary, then I am prepared to bring this draft quite quickly to the big hall. Above all, this requires a broader social and political agreement, after which technical progress will be very simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U81	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When it comes to security policy, very much has been said about the involvement of volunteers and the contribution of citizens themselves to ensuring the safety of the community, themselves and their loved ones. At the same time, it has been self - understandable for volunteers who cooperate with the police, as well as for volunteer rescuers, to be provided with equipment by an organisation whose activities they support, it is either the Rescue Board or the police. Nobody expects volunteer rescuers to buy a rescue car with their money. However, when we talk about voluntary marine rescuers, their situation is fundamentally different. Prefers the idea that it is normal for them to acquire their own equipment in a certain part of the way they work, etc. For example, yesterday I went to Lihula, and there was also the talk of volunteer marine rescuers...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U83	Could such a view be reviewed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U84	Good questioner, your question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U85	I understood the substance of the question very clearly. It is true that the two agencies treat the bailiffs differently. In particular, the Police and Border Guard Board covers direct costs and does not pay the preparedness fee, the Rescue Board pays the preparedness fee to voluntary rescue companies and compensates for the costs associated with the rescue event. So there's some difference. I would certainly like there to be no difference in this respect, so that we still have the same voluntary scheme. But that requires that we all negotiate with the agencies. In fact, it is very simple because we have fewer sea and lake rescue companies and there are fewer contracts with the Police and Border Guard Board. We just have to review the decisions we make. If we want to increase the availability fee for marine and lake rescue companies, which would in itself be very reasonable, for example, to cover even those costs in order to warm up the boat for the winter, then there is a need for the Police and Border Guard Board (a) either for additional resources or (b) for some kind of restructuring within the Police and Border Guard Board to solve an issue within their budget. But if you ask for direction in principle, my clear view is that they must be treated equally. It doesn't matter whether it's sea rescues or land rescues, because they both provide help.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U86	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U87	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Most important are the people who work for the Police and Border Guard Board. Do you think social guarantees are sufficient for rescuers? Secondly, should we not review the system of social guarantees in force throughout the Police and Border Guard Board, given the importance, tension and risks of the work being carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U88	I agree with you a hundred percent that people are the most important. That's where I started my speech. It is not possible to create security without people. As far as social guarantees are concerned, they consist of several components. The basic and most clear social guarantee is that a person is paid a decent salary. The following component: Is it also guaranteed that if something happens to a person, there will be a benefit system? It's there. Part Three: If a person stops doing so, is there some kind of state compensation for him or her? We have agreed in the coalition agreement that the entire regulation of special pensions will be reviewed under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs. And at least in the government's agenda, the point is that during March the Ministry of Social Affairs will have to come to the government office with the proposed solution. Then all special pensions have been put on one story and it is up to us to decide whether or not we are making any changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U89	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U90	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, National support systems, which must be properly manned, must also provide a sense of security. But security also has a psychological, cognitive side that cannot be objectively characterised. We may have no matter how good the national support systems, but while psychological processing of people is taking place in the public information space, the conscious destruction of their sense of security, we are at one point reaching out that people still have fear under their skin. This psychological treatment has already begun to take such dimensions that perhaps something needs to be done nationally. We have so far been relatively open to the threats of the netiacious. Last night's "The Spectator" actually proves that we're getting to the point where people's security is seriously compromised because it's deliberately destroyed. Is it possible to do something about this, and which way should we move to find a balance between what is tolerated and what is forbidden?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U91	Quick answer. Before I dealt with this subject a little bit. Firstly, the amendments to § 151 of the Penal Code brought to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu by the Ministry of Justice will certainly raise debate, which is still incitement to hatred, what is the diapason involved. Secondly, I am personally very interested in what happens to the trial in Scotland, where one person has been charged with a threat on the web. I will certainly ask the people of the Ministry of Justice and their subordinates to observe what is happening in Scotland and to investigate under which Scottish law the police decided to arrest a person for an insult or threat committed on the Internet. Then we can certainly discuss with the Ministry of Justice whether the ongoing amendment of § 151 of the Penal Code will solve this problem or whether further changes are needed. This is the road map to move it forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U92	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U93	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I look at the table of the number of employees, and there is no way to read a great victory for Estonia's security. The fall in the number of employees by 1 500 to 1 700 is, in my opinion, a disaster. After all, the reason for this is that the people who remained in work were able to raise their wages. But where is the critical limit of the number of human resources that it could fall to, so that Estonia's security would not suffer? Where are we going? Recently, I heard shocking news that the Põlva County Police House, for example, no more guards at night, doors locked and no police officers. Where's the line we could fall to? Shouldn't the budget still be looking for more money instead of further reducing the number of employees?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U94	Honourable questioner! At the beginning of my speech, I addressed this issue and I said very clearly that I believe that it is no longer possible to improve internal security if we want to keep it at the current level. We have also agreed on a coalition agreement to build up certain capabilities, such as rapid response capabilities. A rapid reaction force was set up last year at the border guard. But obviously we no longer have room to reduce our staff. New responsibilities come into being, also at the administrative level. For example, e-residency alone, which is one of our new possible innovative solutions, means that more e-residency practitioners are needed for the Police and Border Guard Board. The increase in the number of applicants has been greater than we have planned to apply people to the issue of documents. So if you ask me where the limit is, I'll say the limit is now. As of 1 January 2015, the number of staff of the Police and Border Guard Board was the same as on 1 January 2016. There's no downfall. You don't have that in the table yet, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U95	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U96	Thank you, manager. Good Minister of the Interior! The security of people in the European Union, but also in Estonia, is currently greatly affected by finding a solution to the migration crisis, i.e. the suppression of migration flows. The German Chancellor and the leadership of the European Commission have tried to persuade Turkey to slow down migration flows towards the European Union. I want to ask you what you think is the hope that Turkey will be able to curb migration flows.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U97	There's a lot of hope. Hope is! Indisputably, communication with Turkey is a key element in the control of migration flows. The European Union's decision to allocate EUR 3 billion to Turkey to support refugee camps is, in my view, a very sensible decision. It is essential to ensure that people are first safe there. However, this is only the first step. People can't live in refugee camps for the rest of their lives, they need a solution. Whether this solution comes to them on Turkish territory, or whether they can go back home, whether we are talking about Afghanistan, Syria or some other country, or there are other solutions, but surely the international community as a whole is helping to resolve the migration crisis as a whole by redeploying the most desperate people, under the leadership of the UN. Turkey's ability to meet its expectations also depends very much on its internal policies. In addition to the refugee crisis, Turkey has a great deal of concern about what is happening in the immediate vicinity of Syria and, of course, the tensions with Russia are not something that Turkey would want. So, in addition to solving everyday refugee concerns, Turkey has a great many other acute problems to deal with. In the European Union, it is much hoped that Turkey will be able to cope, even though it needs to bear in mind, in addition to the war in Syria in its immediate neighbourhood, the signs of danger in its relations with Russia. From our point of view, it is extremely important that the European External Action Service (EEAS) and the European Union as a whole also assist Turkey in dealing with refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U98	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U99	Good President! Good Minister, thank you for your presentation. My question concerns national borders and border guards. You said that our borders would probably be one of the most modern, perhaps all over the world, which is very positive. However, in the course of major changes, the border guard's profession is beginning to disappear completely. There are no border guards in the administration of the Police and Border Guard Board; border guards are subordinate to the service department. It's unique in the world. My question is this: do you not think that, in the interests of a stronger border guard, it is also necessary to restore the border guard's chain of command?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U100	The border guard will not disappear from Estonia. There is a border guard's chain of command in Estonia, the border guard's command lines work. The Estonian system that police and border guard systems are connected is certainly not unique. There are also a large number of such countries in the European Union. If you want their exact list, I can send you an e-mail so you can see where the police and border guards are connected. The closest we have, as well as the country we have had the most contact with lately, is Slovenia. As far as border guards are concerned, I dare say that the equipment and capabilities of Estonian border guards are at a very good level. But we can do more. There will also be, for example, new motor sleds, ATVs and new cars with a better permeability. Certainly by building a border, the proportion of people who are able to manage the IT system will increase in border crossings, the whole picture we are going to have needs to be managed. That's why I'm saying border guarding is a complex job. Would anything change if the border guards were separated from the police? I dare say that there would be no significant change in terms of the quality of work. Rather, at the moment, we are able to use the resources of both sides, both the police and the border guard, quite operationally, to ensure the highest possible level of border control. Let me give you a simple example. The last captured Vietnamese gang was largely caught because all the forces reacted quickly: the border guards, the patrol that was out that day, and the policemen came to the scene without any delay. These are advantages. But I believe that this debate will rise again when the National Audit Office comes up with an audit of the merger of the Police and Border Guard Board. Then we can do a long and thorough dissecting of this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U101	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U102	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Guns don't kill themselves, kill people. The tank doesn't drive, it has to be driven. IT devices may control it, but a little jamming is enough, and the IT device no longer controls it. Is the security risk still threatening the area you were talking about? What if the risk of security starts with underfunded kindergartens, childcare, underfunded school, underfunded teachers, little patriotism in school, broken families, emigration and so on? We'll soon have no one to protect, and then there will be no risk of security. Do you think that the risk of security tends not to the technical side, but to the human factor?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U103	In order to ensure a sense of security, I strongly believe that everything starts at home. When it is safe at home, it is possible to achieve that a young person who once went to kindergarten and school and started adult life has developed an adequate picture of the world. This world's image depends very much on what the children's room has been like and what skills have been provided from home. So if you ask what can be done to reduce the risks in Estonia, then first and foremost everyone can think about what is happening in his own home and what happens when a child closes the front door of his home behind him. It is very important how we raise our children, what values we shape in them and how we talk about what also helps to ensure the security of the country through our own security. I think it's the key. Of course, the whole system around the child has a role to play, from kindergarten and school to people who teach there. But it's an additional background. Everything starts at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U104	Thank you once again, Minister of the Interior, for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Toomas Vitsuti, representative of the Estonian Central Party, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U105	Can I ask for more time right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U106	Yes, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U107	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Hanno Pevkur! Ladies and gentlemen, Today a year ago, there was an internal security development plan for the years 2015 to 2020 on the tables of the members of the Riigikogu. Then the Minister of the Interior promised that the people of Estonia could live in a free and secure society. Statistically speaking, the picture is not too bad, but let's try to figure out what's behind the figures, as the Minister says. We see that people in general feel quite safe, but if we look at different regions of Estonia, the picture can be very different. For years we have been able to observe the process that people are concentrated in Estonia's major cities, Tartu and Tallinn, mainly in Tallinn and its immediate vicinity. Life in rural areas and small towns has become a luxury. There is no significant public transport, small schools, post offices, etc. For people living on Earth, the country is becoming increasingly distant, and it seems to me that there is an increasing need to travel to Tartu or Tallinn for security. Since its creation, the Police and Border Guard Board has been one of the most reformed state agencies ever. Its composition has been reduced by more than a thousand people and millions of euros have been saved. True, the work of the Police and Border Guard Board has become more effective and it is cheaper for the state to consider this system. On the other hand, I believe that internal security outside Tallinn, especially in rural areas, has been reduced. We can often see the police on the streets of Tallinn, but in the periphery they are rarely encountered and then this scheduled visit is usually known well in advance to local criminals. If there's a house on fire in some country, the firemen will be here so late, they'll only have to put out the guns. Increasing security is being sought by volunteers, but police officers cannot be fully replaced by help police officers and professional rescuers with full-scale volunteers' rescuers. The job isn't done. This is what happens when people have to move to a place where living is not a luxury in Tallinn. The economic and social situation of people plays an important role in creating a sense of security, and the ability to cope with life. In recent months, news has come to our attention that over 300 people in Ida-Virumaa, over 600 in Keila, are being made redundant during this year. Such a wave of lay-offs undoubtedly reduces security in a particular area, as the existence of a job is an essential factor that creates a sense of security for people. When people are made redundant on a massive scale, dissatisfaction and the whole security situation can become unsatisfactory. It's very bad when people feel abandoned by the state. I have been following with interest the controversy of the Odin Warriors, where notes condemning this movement have largely remained. In commenting on the Odin Warriors' movement, the Prime Minister says that the emergence of such own-initiative gangs will not increase people's sense of security in the slightest. The representatives of the authorities criticise this movement, condemn it, but instead I would like to hear from them why such an own-initiative movement involving people's sense of security arises when the sense of security in Estonia is said to be so great. Why do people spontaneously gather in such a group when we have official structures, police and police officers to protect internal security? Have respectable rulers failed to do anything, or have they done wrong, to have an internal security gap filled by Odin's soldiers who gain popularity? Perhaps it would be a good time for the Prime Minister to shake a little ash on his head, give up unwarranted self-confidence and admit that the government has failed to do something very important in the area of internal security. This may be a slightly more complicated task than putting the rows of the Excel table together, but I believe that the whole of Estonia is waiting for it. I also believe that we would all be very disappointed if you tried to get it out of your head, such as the police or the Defence League, or by manipulating and demagogueing statistics, you try to reduce internal security problems, which sometimes tend to grow into security problems. Finally, however, I would like to congratulate everyone involved in the reform of the system for receiving emergency calls. Receiving emergency calls and sending help is faster and more professional than ever, thanks to Estonia's transition to one of the emergency numbers 112. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U108	Thank you very much. I now invite a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to the Riigikogu speech chair. Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U109	Good meeting manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We heard here, and we also read from the materials that have been distributed to us, that the credibility of the Police and Border Guard Board has consistently remained at 85% in recent years. I mean, it's been a little fluctuating, but it's been around. This is an extremely commendable and good result in itself. At the same time, we have witnessed that in recent years, it started in 2009 and 2010 and lasted until 2014 there has been quite a steady and sharp decrease in staff. As the Minister mentioned today, this figure is 25%. What does that mean? This means that over these years, the number of police and border guards in one precinct has decreased. However, based on the data of the Justice Department, there's nothing wrong with it either. According to statistics, crime has been steadily declining, with about 5,000 fewer crimes in 2015 than in 2014. If we look into the figures, we can see that the biggest drop is in crimes against property, the biggest increase in traffic crimes. What might their reasons be? Isn't this the reason for the increase in latent crime? Perhaps smaller thefts are simply no longer reported, and this is why we enjoy this nice figure, but the traffic crime figure has increased because surveillance has weakened? When we talk about traffic crimes, it is sometimes thought that what these traffic crimes are, but if we look at the consequences, it is traffic crimes that have very serious consequences: lives are lost, people are seriously injured, often permanent health damage for life. Yesterday I was in Lihula talking to the people there. It turned out that the main concern was the lack of road safety and traffic hooliganism. When it came to what the police were doing, it was claimed that the police would arrive at the scene or solve the problem once the problem had resolved itself. There was also an opinion that the police would say yes, we know who the local villains are, who will disturb your peace, so I guess we'll talk to them someday. Everything! It shouldn't be like that. However, as far as the fight against corruption crimes is concerned, only congratulations can be made on this. As has already been noted here, on 1 January 2012, a corruption crime handling unit was launched in the Central Criminal Police, which has achieved excellent results. It is a good thing that common sense was maintained at the time and that the handling of large-scale corruption crimes threatening the state was left under the command of the defence police and, in addition, that the defence police were given the task of detecting possible corruption in national companies as well. In this right to work, too, we are seeing excellent results today, which have also given work to Parliament's Committee of Inquiry. In society, there are quite large new and unknown challenges: tackling the fears caused by the reception of potential illegals and preventing the spread of hate speech. What are these fears and anger? Fear and anger are emotions and emotion can only be tamed by argumented communication and argumented communication. This means that state rulers need to communicate with citizens in an argument, in order to prevent these problems and ensure a sense of security in society. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U110	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U111	Secondly, tensions must be mitigated and political populism eliminated, which is expressed here every day in one way or another. Some politicians, some political forces or political formations are trying to increase their popularity with this unhealthy populism. These are the reasons why we are talking about the emergence of the same Odin warriors, who will be encouraged and supported by this, by putting forward'reasonable' arguments as to why it is necessary to form and start operating as such self-proclaimed law enforcement units. I, too, believe that this will in no way increase security in society. These groups, such groups, will in themselves become less or more a security risk and, in fact, institutions guaranteeing security will have to start contributing their resources to eliminate or at least reduce this new security risk. When dealing with such problems in the future, we need to think carefully and share resources wisely in creating new legislation in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. In particular, both voluntary and national law enforcement units and structures that are legal and already operational must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U112	Thank you. Kalle Laane on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U113	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister and ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Pevkur for his meaningful presentation. There was what to listen to, and there was what to read. On 10 June 2008, the Riigikogu decided to approve the 'Principles of Estonian Security Policy until 2015'. It became a tradition that the Minister of the Interior will give the Riigikogu's plenary an overview of security in the country. I am pleased that while working for security, we have reached a situation where 91% of Estonian people find it safe to live in Estonia. This shows that the Ministry of the Interior and its departments are doing a good job. It is positive that the number of fires and drowning deaths and other accidents, as well as the number of crimes, is in a clear downward trend. In my opinion, a very important paradigm shift has taken place in recent years to ensure our internal security. Our rescue system has become a preventive system from a reactive system. I remember my years of ministering in 2005-2007 when the drivers of the rescue system were asked to think about how rescuers would be able to do prevention every day. The command does not have to wait for a challenge; instead, the residents and the staff of the authorities can be told how to prevent threats. At that time, it was considered impossible for rescuers on duty to leave the commando. It is now customary for rescuers to take care of prevention while on guard and respond to a challenge, regardless of the location of the moment. But there's room for improvement. More needs to be done to raise people's awareness in order to prevent fire accidents, drowning deaths, car accidents and crime. The number of fire, water and road deaths in Estonia is much higher today than in the Nordic countries, given the population. Safety training begins at home and is the cornerstone of the teachings of each parent. It is therefore important that parents' knowledge and skills in safety are constantly improved. This is how life and health are maintained for children and, of course, for adults. Parents can be educated by organising information campaigns. More lectures and practical exercises to prevent accidents can be organised in general education schools. Education and training are needed for drivers and pedestrians in order to reduce road accidents. The area of internal security rests not only on the volunteers who contribute to the resolution of specific cases, which is a completely new approach compared to a year ago, but also on maintaining security in their area. According to the data of the Internal Security Development Plan 2015-2020, nearly half of the Estonian population identified themselves as a self-employed person. A third of the population participates in events at home and less than a tenth, or 7% participates actively or organises such events. Volunteers now tend to contribute to response by participating in rescue or patrol operations, which require special training and equipment. It is important to involve even more volunteers in ensuring internal security and to increase their ability to contribute to prevention training in a field they know. The more people willing to volunteer to contribute to security, the greater the assumption that they also pay more attention to the surroundings outside the service than to other residents. I attach great importance to the development of cooperation networks and the development of a community-centred security model as one of the objectives set out in the 2015/20 Development Plan. This model takes account of the specific characteristics and specific needs of the region, the problems being solved as far as possible on the ground. In order to ensure security, there must be smooth cooperation between residents, public authorities, local authorities, businesses and NGOs. Such cooperation is, in my opinion, one of the keys to moving towards a safer society. I can give a good example of the Saaremaa Foundation, established in 1998, which has been very active in carrying out prevention projects throughout Western Estonia. I would also like to mention the technical and technological developments of the police, some of which I think have been very relevant. Speed cameras have proved effective, forcing drivers to maintain safe speed limits. Another innovation is the introduction of the e-police system, which will help reduce red tape. I hope that technical and technological developments will not go beyond a lack of resources or a lack of resources. However, the most important thing is that we have the right attitudes, educated and well - motivated people. At the beginning of the last decade, the new challenge for the police and society was the cases of close relationship violence, and this is still one of the priorities. Now there is a new dangerous trend in Estonian society. Recently, instigation of intolerance and anger has intensified in Estonia. Examples include the arson of Vao Refugee Centre, angry letters sent to the online constable related to the mother of refugees, and hate comments published in public spaces. Yesterday in "The Spectator," we saw interviews with people we know who are victims of hate comments. Hence the new challenge for law enforcement authorities. It is clear that people understand the key issues of social life differently. It's natural in a free society. Everyone is able to express their views. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that the views expressed do not call for hatred or incite violence, nor must they act as mental harassment. It is necessary to seek to ensure that the views expressed in the public space are thought-out and balanced. Public peace is a prerequisite and a great value for the functioning of society, and we can each contribute by our own conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U114	Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U115	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Security is one of the policy areas to which we must all be extremely serious. This is not an area where we could afford to compromise and to act lightly. Ultimately, our people must be guaranteed security as well as the state can. At the same time, it is irresponsible to seek political advantage from a sense of security. Our vision is very simple: Estonia is a country where everyone feels safe and secure at home, on the street and on the Internet. The state contributes to security with its presence and effective legal protection, and communities are also taking the initiative to create a safe living environment. However, we will only reach such a country if we have a strong security policy that includes internal security embedded with each other, broad-based national defence, and also guarantees economic, regional and social security. I was pleased to hear from the Minister of the Interior that last year we reached a position where the ranks of the PPA police and border guards did not decrease. After all, it is clear that the most security is guaranteed by the real contact of law enforcement with residents, precisely that we see motivated police patrolling the streets and that when calling the emergency number, helpers react quickly. However, it is now necessary to get from the lack of reduction in the lines that have been achieved to the fact that we are investing more resources so that the presence of regional police officers can be seen no more. Building the eastern border will also contribute to increasing the overall sense of security. It also shows clear progress: the cleaning of the border strip, the construction of the Piusa cordon and, most importantly, the rapid border intervention unit, which effectively fights cross-border crime, whether it is smuggling or transporting people, has begun to work. Very impressive is the position of the Minister for the Interior on the general policy on migration, which is a truly socialist position. We must decide whether Estonia wants to be a closed or open state. This is not a decision that Estonia should give away in relation to, as has been shown by the processes that have been going on for a long time now. We stand together to make it safe to live in Estonia, and we have worked for years to ensure that there is an environment in which all people feel safe and well. After all, we would like to see our science develop so that our business environment flourishes and that we can bring added value from the outside. And the fact that, as far as possible, we lend a helping hand to war refugees in distress is purely human. The Ministry of the Interior must, of course, take all measures to ensure that, in the current security situation, the people who come here really are those people who are in trouble because of the war. In guaranteeing internal security, we cannot overlook the fact that each of us has a certain responsibility in this area. The best of us is willing to contribute. However, in order for volunteers to really be able to contribute, they need up-to-date technology and other resources. In the area of rescue, for example, prevention and good training are essential. Good prevention avoids a large proportion of potential accidents. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U116	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U117	Certainly, the Ministry of the Interior should work very hard in the future in this area, but also be careful that volunteers remain motivated and are not overburdened. I believe that there are highly qualified internal security officers in our country, they are persistent, they are good, they are very well trained, and they should set an example for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U118	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U119	Good speaker! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We thank the Minister for his thorough review. I believe he does not mind how many years of debate on police, border guard and rescue also brings up the issues of day-to-day policy. It'd be weird if they didn't. But I will stick to my position and quote Stalin again: life has gotten better, life has become more fun. When the minister gave his presentation, I couldn't get rid of the feeling that this was a pioneer report about how we're getting better and better. But is it? I would say that if we have reduced the number of road deaths, the number of fire deaths and the number of drowning deaths, this is not directly the result of the police's better work. Let's take a look at the bigger picture. Yesterday there was a demography conference right here at the Riigikogu House, where two very significant figures were discussed: one is emigration and the other is the birth rate in the last 25 years. About 100,000 people have left Estonia, with leavers mostly aged 20 to 40. And in Estonia, birth generations have become smaller and smaller in the last 20 years. Today, in their 20s, there are about twice as many people as 10 to 15 years ago than those born in the 1970s and 1980s. What does that mean? This means that adrenaline is much less in society and is directly reflected in the number of road deaths and drowning deaths, as well as in crime. If we have fewer young people, fewer young men, then the statistics will change accordingly. The police can travel longer, the fire department can delay longer, the statistics will still get better. Unfortunately, we cannot accept that we are well guarded by the border. We know that the eastern border is not entirely under control. We just don't have a western border, a northern border and a southern border. And we also have no borders in the Mediterranean because there are no borders in or outside Europe. So it cannot be accepted that the Estonian border has been controlled and guarded. Nor can we agree that salaries have gone up joyfully in the police and other power structures. This cannot be called a wage increase if people are taken away from the extras and the same amount, or even a slightly smaller amount, is increased. It's fooling people. Separately, I would like to focus on volunteering, community action, initiative, motivation. What is everybody talking about here today? Odin's soldiers' initiative. Why is this initiative still bad? What is the basis for this crime? An ordinary Facebook group who strongly criticises government action or omission has been declared criminal. But at the same time, there are people on whose shoulders the state pushes its own responsibilities to save, and these volunteers are good. I don't understand these double standards. I just don't understand it. The third point I want to make is a very acute criticism of the plans that are circulating in the Ministry of the Interior and which can be summed up in the words 'dilution of citizenship'. Categorical doesn't double citizenship! Categorical does not relax work permits! These are sneaky ways of bypassing the fact that Estonian society opposes the plan to dilute Estonia's already weak national body. And when ministers, be they ministers of power or prime minister, or senior officials of their subjects, begin to demonise a single kind of citizens' initiative, while praising the other side of the citizens' initiative, which will help them cover up the fact that their actual actions have weakened and our power structures have weakened, we see in it a clear threat to democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U120	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U121	Dear Chairman, Minister, thank you very much. Thanks for the presentation, there was a lot of positive in it. The most positive change in my ears, or such a paradigmical change, when compared to even ten years ago, is a community-centred concept of security. In that respect, I can call myself a real practitioner. It is certainly very positive to get a single alert centre running and its work. Of course, it is also positive that the People's Protection Task Force has at least come together and taken action. But what I want to talk about first is still money. In the big picture, when Estonia's security is divided into external security and internal security, domestic security is in addition to external security in terms of funding for a total orphan. That is one thing that we in Parliament could certainly change. Maybe more money for internal security! Speaking about money, Mr Raivo Time has already touched on the fact that the investigation of corruption in Estonia has become more effective. The Central Criminal Police has set up a corruption investigation unit, the kapo is involved in corruption, it has expanded its mandate. But now, if you talk to these same bodies, the Central Criminal Police and the CPO, they both say that their field of work is actually much wider and they need more money and more people to investigate corruption. Speaking of money, I am still of the opinion that the inequality between rescuers and police officers is still too great in the area of internal security. This is one of the drawbacks that may need to be resolved very quickly in the near future. I do not think that the role of the police is so much higher that police officers can earn so much more than rescue officers. I know the argument is that the burden on the savior is not so great, the tension is not so great, but, as we have heard here today, prevention is also the job of the savior. This is among his new duties, and his motivation could also be linked to this increase in salary. One important issue that has not been discussed today is civil control over our power structures. We'd like to know more about what's going on inside the Police and Border Guard Board, for example, what's going on in the defense police. It is not enough for the Defence Police to make their annual report. We would like the National Audit Office to carry out a performance audit on the activities of the Defence Police. We don't really know what's going on in there. Can I have an extension, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U122	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U123	A very positive aspect is that there is talk of community-based security in Estonia, about volunteers. I'm a second-degree volunteer marine rescuer myself, and I'm running a Marine Rescue Unit on the North Coast. So the problems with volunteers I know very well. One major problem still concerns money. Both voluntary marine rescuers and rescuers have a great deal to do with technology. The state even gives it, probably more for rescuers and less for marine rescuers, but this technique requires maintenance costs. The boats need to be kept over the winter, they need to be paid for, they need to be maintained and all this burden cannot be left on the volunteers. It is not right for a person to voluntarily contribute his or her time to the security of society to take his or her wallet open and to spend money specifically so that things can be done. It's definitely something that should change. When I think about the perspective of volunteers, I also sense the indiscretion of this so-called broad-based national defence. We are a very strong organized group of people who, while working for salvation, are willing to act in other situations. However, no one has turned to us and said that in this or another situation, you could come to our aid by making big plans, broad security plans. In the case of volunteers, human resources should certainly be mentioned, as very many volunteers are volunteers in very many places. This means that there are people who are assistant police officers, volunteer rescuers, and also in the Defence League. They have three uniforms on the wall, and if anything happens, there's a big mess about what kind of uniform to take. We could also talk about the competence of volunteers. As voluntary marine rescuers, for example, we are also training ourselves in pollution response, but the state has not paid attention to us on this issue, we have to put pressure on ourselves. Finally, perhaps the most important thing is that we are talking about plans and broad-based crisis management and all that, but people on the ground do not know what they have to do. More needs to be explained to the public about how to behave in a crisis situation, in an emergency situation, but little has been done. And lastly, I will mention the border guard. We were told positively that the border will be modern, but yes, the border guard when the profession is disappearing. Border guard is not represented on the Board of the Police and Border Guard Board...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U124	Thank you, Artur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U125	Yes, now, one more second, please! The border guard is under the command of the Service Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-18_U126	Thank you. Now, all the speeches have been made. Today's item is closed. Thank you, Minister. Meet me at the plenary session on Monday. Closure of the sitting at 12.29 p.m.
