ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the first Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U2	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, ID-card is one of those things that is perfectly common to us, portable in our pockets and often used in e-government. I.D. just got a new contract on the ID card, but this one crashed. At the beginning of August, the Tallinn Administrative Court annulled the decision of the Police and Border Guard Board in April, in which the Police and Border Guard Board declared the French company Safran Morpho the winner of the procurement of ID-cards between 2018 and 2023. The Court found that the PBA did not provide logical and observable reasons for the selection process of the winner, i.e. why as many points were given to the various offers as they were given. The Court also considered that the evaluation of the PPP should have been more clearly guided by the conditions and criteria set by it and that the decision taken should have been more verifiable. There are a lot of doubts about the procurement of ID-cards and doubts that the procurement process is biased. The volume of the contract is up to EUR 40 million. This gives an idea that this is a very large and security sensitive procurement, which will undoubtedly come under public scrutiny. In this context, seven members of the Free Party Group shall submit an enquiry to the Minister for the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, on six questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Enn Fronta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U4	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry with the signature of 13 members of the Central Party Group for Foreign Minister Jürgen Ligi. This concerns the role of the Presidency in a year's time. While it was still known in the spring that Estonia will play the Presidency in the first half of 2018 according to the programme of the Presidency of the European Union, after the referendum in the United Kingdom and the decision of the United Kingdom to leave the European Union, the Estonian Presidency of the European Union moved six months earlier than planned, i.e. to the second half of 2017. According to the new ranking, Estonia will take over from Malta to transfer it to Bulgaria six months later. The previous Presidency will have an impact on the work prepared so far for the Presidency programme. Thus, at the meeting of the Committee of the Presidency held on 6 September this year, the need for an additional EUR 1.43 million, an additional budget for missions as well as changes to the focus of the external programme was confirmed. In addition to recruiting additional officials, it is still a question of planning the holidays of officials already recruited during the Presidency. Despite the fact that the issues to be resolved by the Presidency come mainly from the previous Presidency, each Presidency still has the opportunity to focus more attention on issues that are particularly important for the individual Presidency. For us, six questions are important, to which we expect the answers of Foreign Minister Jürgen Ligi. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U5	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have received two inquiries. According to our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the presence control. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U6	Let us now turn to today's item on the agenda. The debate on the 'Administrative reform' of the national issue is of key importance on our agenda. Dear colleagues, let me briefly present the procedure for this debate. According to § 153 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board of the Riigikogu appointed the next procedure for discussing administrative reform as a matter of major importance on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party's political group. First, the presentation of the Deputy Chairman of the Estonian Centre Party's Group Mailis Reps for up to 20 minutes, questions and answers for up to 15 minutes. Second, Advokaadibüroo Varul's attorney-at-law Paul Varul's report for up to 30 minutes, questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Thirdly, Veikko Luhalaidi, Chairman of the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa County, gave a presentation for up to 20 minutes, questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to all rapporteurs. After presentations and questions, a round of negotiations will be opened on request. All members of the Riigikogu may speak. The initiator, i.e. the Estonian Centre Party Group, has proposed to the Riigikogu that representatives of the political groups be given the floor first. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The initiator has also proposed to extend today's session. We will come back to this if necessary on a rolling basis. I now ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of the Deputy Chair of the Estonian Central Party's Group, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U7	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good President of the Riigikogu! Good representatives of local governments and guests! I am sincerely pleased that the debate on administrative reform has now reached the Chamber of the Riigikogu. At the beginning of the summer, when the law on administrative reform was quickly passed in Parliament, the discussion between the opposition and government representatives, as well as between local authorities and the central government, was, in my opinion, clearly incomplete. The law was quickly adopted, but the troubles that arose at the time have not gone away today. The disgusting regions are felt, and the local people also want the voice of local governments to be heard at national level. Today's the opportunity. Over the last few months, I have visited more than 180 municipalities. I therefore dare say that I am well aware of the concerns and current situation of the various regions of Estonia. It is no secret that peripheralization is rampant in Estonia, and smaller regions run out of people. This is a concern that I have heard in dozens of municipalities in dozens of different ways, but in the same form. While sitting in the capital, you can't sense peripheralization, because Tallinn is one of the few municipalities where the population is constantly growing. There is, however, a sharp problem on Earth that clearly stands out on the ground. In the last few years, the situation has also been severely aggravated by the agricultural crisis and the government's unwillingness to find a solution to it. The cuts made in 2009 in the municipal income base, which have not yet been restored to pre-crisis levels, have had even more serious effects on local life. Temporary negative decisions have a bad habit of becoming permanent. These are issues that need to be resolved, but which the Heads of State do not want to deal with. In order to solve complex problems, the government has developed an administrative reform law as its solution, which is known to be desirable for more than 20 years. Paradoxically, however, it was forgotten to give substance to the major reform. Excessive haste and inability to make the necessary decisions have led us to a situation where many municipalities turn against the reform of the merger of rural municipalities to the Supreme Court. If there were to be a positive decision against local authorities and certain parts of the administrative reform law were to be returned to Parliament, we would be once again facing a busted trough. This opportunity alone should give us a signal that we must not hide from problems. Even when the draft administrative reform was pushed through in Parliament, I said that the government's state reform with the aplomb last spring will ultimately only go back to mechanical drawing of the Estonian map. The draft law included the merger schedule, the size criterion of 5 000 inhabitants and the accession grants and the redundancy allowances of the local government leaders who lost their jobs. The actual content is allowed for administrative reform by an additional 18 laws, of which the government has not yet sent any drafts to the Riigikogu. However, the lack of substantive agreements did not prove to be an obstacle to the coalition, and the administrative-territorial reform was pushed to the Riigikogu in spite of opposition protests, night sessions and many proposals for cooperation. However, it may have been a surprise for the government to realize that the local government leaders did not want to follow their plan quickly. The Administrative Reform Act is called an empty document in the regions, which does not increase the capacity of local authorities or the well-being of people. Good, hard-working local government leaders are very disappointed and consider the current administrative reform to be a serious push towards peripheralisation. Several councillors and parish elders have even said that they must, figuratively speaking, put out the fire in many villages of Estonia. I do not want Estonia to have just a few strong centres and a wasteland all around. I honestly admit that as president, I would not have declared such an empty law. It must be understood that we are not opposed to administrative reform as such. Absolutely not. However, we cannot afford incomplete solutions and reforms that are being carried out solely for the sake of the reform itself. We need content and good solutions. Good guys in the hall! There are regions in Estonia where municipalities have worked successfully for a long time and prepared for a possible merger thoroughly. For the most part, the merger takes place around logical attractions. The law adopted provides that the Government of the Republic may join municipalities which do not want to join themselves or who do not find partners in connection with the current meaningless criteria. The part of the compulsory merger following the stage of voluntary accession as a matter of urgency renders null and void the terms agreed in the Treaty of Accession. Similarly, in the case of compulsory mergers, no accession grant is paid, which means that municipalities are treated unequally. In addition, there is another aggravating factor in the process. If, according to the law in force earlier, the period between the initiation of the compulsory merger and the election of the local government was one year, then this period has now been shortened to eight months. As far as I know, the accession negotiations between representatives of local governments in most areas of Estonia are still very ongoing or have not even started seriously. Questions such as who to join, what will be the name of the new municipality, and where the centre comes to, are still completely open and still need discussion and agreements. Substantial topics and the new administration of the municipality have been reached in very few places. There is a real danger that in many areas, towns and villages of Estonia, as a result of haste, local life will be properly turned upside down for a few years and this will make people's daily lives worse. In view of the above, I propose that the Government of the Republic, and today also the Riigikogu, review thoroughly the administrative reform law adopted in spring. If there is good will, it is possible to agree on a logical and rational mitigation of administrative reform. This would give many Estonians some kind of certainty for the future. Otherwise, we will get even more uneven and with very different capacities, sometimes forced-made municipalities, where the quality of decision-making and services provided can only deteriorate and, unfortunately, move away from people. Good members of the Riigikogu and dear guests! In my opinion, the administrative reform is one of the most burning issues in Estonia's life, which requires constant discussion and communication between the government and local governments. I hope that today's session will only be the first step towards a better discussion. The following rapporteurs will give you an overview of the legal aspects of the reform and how the representatives of the municipality see the administrative reform in practice. Thank you for listening and thinking along.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U8	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U9	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Administrative reform certainly needs to be carried out, but the administrative reform in its current form does not really offer any solutions. I congratulate my former colleagues, who have not allowed themselves to be blinded by the annual salary and are opposed to this form of reform. Here's my question. The Reform Party has been opposed to administrative reform for 15 years, always talking about voluntary accession. Now he's suddenly starting to support the coercion. Can you tell me if the pressure from the European Commission has had to carry out the administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U10	Thank you, good questioner! I do not have any information that the European Commission has ordered the administrative reform to be carried out. However, it is relatively clear that local governments themselves have had a lot of versions in recent months, a part of them is very exciting, while others are rather logically structured, why the administrative reform law has been dealt with so quickly. One and quite overwhelming opinion is that if a small number of local governments remain in Estonia, there will be talk about 60-70 municipalities and, at the same time, if you look at the law of two chairs that have been processed very quickly in the same hall, you can bring some parallels. For sixty local governments, there are still those top politicians through which such community-based councils can become political. That is, I must say, one of the most overwhelming critical opinions that is being expressed in local governments. The other half of what local government representatives have said at the meetings is that it allows the state to better control. After all, the municipality is part of the country, but the mutual mistrust of the central and local authorities is rather sad in recent years. The end result of this distrust is that there are fewer local authorities, they are easier to manage and easier to manage, and I apologise for saying so to manage. These are the two opinions that the local authorities themselves have highlighted most. However, as far as content is concerned, what local authorities see as the biggest problem is that there will be no more trust. The question of money and everything that has actually been dealt with in terms of the content of the local government reform for years. The expert groups have analysed the areas that should be provided below, the financial capacities that should be provided below. There is no need to discover anything new here; these papers are prepared by very good experts and have also been discussed here in the Riigikogu and introduced at many round tables. These things should just be agreed and really done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U11	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U12	Thank you. I, too, was going to ask just what happened to the administrative reform for 16 to 17 years, the failure of a number of projects, and now all of a sudden it got so fast. But I ask you if you think it's even possible to force local governments to join without violating the Constitution and their autonomous decision-making and status. If the 18 laws are still missing now, have you heard where they are? We were told in the summer that they were about to come, that things would be given substance. In fact, we accepted a completely empty shell, with only those figures in it, how many people there must be and how much there are certain benefits. So I'm asking you what do you think of this from the point of view of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U13	Thank you. First of all, as far as content is concerned, it is clear that we cannot predict anything here today. The next waitress will certainly make this legal side quite clear, because the attorney-at-law, Mr. Varul, has been the one who has put the wishes of the local authorities into the legal language. It has analysed a number of nuances to the administrative reform, including the part of compulsory integration, and may create legal clarity. Is it possible for the legislative power, or Parliament, to restrict and force local authorities? Yeah, it's possible, but it has to be justified. It must be properly demonstrated why this is being done, why their autonomy is being restricted. I believe that the biggest dispute in the Supreme Court comes about why the Riigikogu itself has not been able to deal with the following laws, which would bring substance to this matter and also give some reason why 5000 is better than 3000 or why 3000 is better than 2000, which is 11000 and what stands for 10680. That's the first part of the question. As regards the pros and cons of coercion, the Reform Party itself has supported voluntary accession for years. This has been pointed out by Andrus Ansip, as Prime Minister, constantly in this hall, being critical of the plans of his partner, the Fatherland and Res Publica, and saying that forced marriage is not a marriage. Now the government coalition has come to the conclusion that marriage without forced marriage will not be born. In time, we will get such a legal analysis, and thanks to the decisions of the Supreme Court, we will see how this phase of coercion is actually being worked out. I think that it is quite likely that the law on administrative reform will come back here at some point through the Supreme Court and we will be able to have quite long discussions about its content. There are quite a few legal arguments that make me think he'll most likely land back here. Now, does this completely repeal the administrative reform? We can see that, of course, can't come. Since there are local authorities who are in good faith in administrative reform, who have negotiated and expect and expect to receive grants based on administrative reform, the Riigikogu is not entitled to take away this expectation and hope. We can talk about reviewing certain parts of the administrative reform, adding content, increasing trust and the financial base, but we cannot say that we are returning this whole thing back to its zero point. The Riigikogu has no such option. This would in any case violate the rights of the other actors in the administrative reform. However, with the reform, we can do more of the things that we need. That is to say, that local authorities, as the closest representative of the country, have more capacity to provide services to people, answer questions and solve problems. After all, it is clear that at local level, the local government is the most concerned with matters of state life. When a person comes through the door, the local government deals very little directly with what has been put into that small frame by law. He's doing a thousand other things. A person comes and asks more questions. It is very good if local authorities have such capacity. The more he has this capacity and the more we give him the autonomy to make his own decisions, the better a person is supported there on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U14	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U15	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Mailis! We are already getting the eye out of this administrative reform, because we are actually not doing administrative reform at the moment, but we are doing administrative territorial reform, to be exact. When you look at Tallinn, you can easily expect everyone to move across Estonia to Tallinn. The city of Tallinn could even benefit from it. But when we look at Estonia as a whole, it also worries us when we look at Tallinn, because people move away from elsewhere and some of Estonia remains empty. You've been driving around Estonia for the last few months. Please tell me what the local government leaders think about where we are going with this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U16	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, when it comes to personal contacts, a very large number of members of the Riigikogu have them all the time. I believe that, both this summer and previous summers, I was not the only one who met with local representatives, because this interest is much greater in the key to administrative reform. But contact with almost every local government in a very short time is perhaps more unique indeed. The main and such connecting feature is that there are enthusiastic people everywhere in Estonia who fight for their community in the brightness of their eyes. I couldn't find a single place in the different corners of Estonia in the south, north, east, west, where I would have given up. No matter how small the local government is, there are people who are really promoting local life. They do half, if not to say, three quarters of their stuff as volunteers. With regard to administrative reform, perhaps the greatest fear is that these exciting local people are afraid of what happens when their municipality becomes part of a larger territory. In order to get five thousand inhabitants together, six or seven municipalities need to be put together by region. Since territories become so large, it is feared that the last of the local fanatics will disappear. It may be the greatest common fear if I can put it that way. What's that fear coming from? Let's say there's a small municipality with 600, 700, 800 local inhabitants left. They have their own little school, their own little cultural center and library, and they really keep it all in their small area. The debate is on whether to raise the salary of a school teacher next year and take out the school's accounting service or keep an accountant on a salary that becomes an interest manager, etc. They're talking about all this in one set. Yeah, they have such a small income base, but they keep the opportunities they have in the picture all the time. Their concern is that if there are seven schools in the municipality in the next round, it is clear that two out of the seven schools will be left, maybe three. If there are 11 libraries by then, 11 libraries will not be able to maintain, because at one point the scale effect will start to work. It is the greatest fear of accession that the most important things for people, such as education, social affairs and culture, simply go further. And when we talk about moving further, the biggest connecting line is that people don't come to Tallinn. In fact, when they rip their roots open, they go even further. Perhaps the last sentence can be said here that every local authority also offers solutions, and that is not just to add to the revenue base. It is said that primary health care could be below, that there could be at least one third of the corporate income tax in the hands of the local government, and that exceptions could be made for the rest of the corporate income tax, where Tallinn and Harjumaa pay full tax and, for example, less is paid in the beautiful municipalities of Võrumaa or Valgamaa. So there would be such tax distinctions, bonuses to improve the living environment, a national housing programme, etc. These offers come from every place, no matter how big he is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U17	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In Finland, there are many examples of very small municipalities alongside super large ones. How would you see the joint action of those local governments who do not go with the coercion, of course, if the court were to decide that coercion is unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U19	There are certainly moments where it is quite wise to analyse and look at the experiences of our neighbouring countries. You brought out Finland here. In Finland, very large municipalities have indeed been formed through mergers, but small municipalities can also make regional thematic communities at the same time. Both options exist. If we ask today what is the solution that the Riigikogu must reach at some point, then I believe that we must do something similar. As a result of our accession, we will have large municipalities with 20,000 or 30,000 inhabitants and will still have some 1 000 or 800 inhabitants next to them. And to some extent create a more normal situation here, both must be given the opportunity to create theme-based communities through local governments, which may later become municipalities, but then it is not a coercion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U20	Good waitress, thank you! I now ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu Attorneys-at-Law, Paul Varul!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U21	Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! I have been asked to talk about what is stated here: compliance with the Constitution of the Administrative Reform Act. However, given the time given, I would still take this central issue, where there is a serious suspicion that there is a contradiction with the Constitution, and this is a problem of coercion. After all, the first question to be asked is whether local government units, cities and municipalities have the right to exist. Or it is that the state organises the local government as such to be guaranteed, and the legislator decides on which territory the municipality and the city are currently operating. It has to be said, however, that the Constitution gives a guarantee of so-called legal personality when it is expressed in a bit of legal language. In other words, it is a right to existence, i.e. a guarantee arising from the constitution of existing cities and rural municipalities (we refer here to § 154 (1) and § 158 of the Constitution). If this guarantee still arises from the Constitution, then it is clear that the compulsory merger is an important barrier to such a guarantee. Let us also think here that cities and municipalities are legal entities. No legal person can arbitrarily simply terminate, but in certain cases a judicial winding-up is possible. It may now be asked that, yes, it is important to have a barricade, but should it be concluded that there is no possibility of a forced merger at all? That those who are, they are, and they can only decide on a voluntary basis what happens to them. In this regard, it must be admitted that compulsory mergers are allowed, because the constitution does not retain existing cities and municipalities. Against the will of these cities and municipalities, too, borders can be forced to change under the law. The main question, however, is that it cannot be done arbitrarily, there must be a good reason. When we are talking about compliance with the law on administrative reform or non-compliance with the Constitution, the central question is whether the law on administrative reform also gives a good reason to decide when forced consolidation is acceptable, despite the fact that it is a breach of the Constitution, that it is an acceptable constitutional breach, or when it becomes an infringement. You can't break the Constitution. If the latch is already so large that it becomes a violation, then there is already a contradiction and then something should be done. To measure whether the latch is acceptable or not acceptable? The main criterion or benchmark is the objective of the administrative reform. In the case of any barricade, when deciding whether it is acceptable, whether it is a violation or not, it is necessary to see what the purpose of that barricade is. If the object of the barricade is so large and important that it outweighs the negative consequences of the barricade, then it must be said that yes, it must be tolerated, it is necessary for some greater purpose. As the main objective of administrative reform, the Administrative Reform Act states that it is an increase in the administrative capacity of rural municipalities and cities, an increase in their capacity to provide public services. This is a very good, beautiful and well-founded objective. Of course, it is necessary for society to have administrative capacity for local authorities, cities and municipalities, because then the rights and interests of local residents will also be better protected. Now we need to take the objective of administrative reform, increase its administrative capacity and assess whether coercion as an obstacle is proportionate, i.e. the kind of interference that must be suffered in view of the objective. The usual thing, which the Supreme Court has accepted in its practice, though, more than the fundamental rights of individuals, is whether the barricade, in this case the coercion, is appropriate in view of the objective of whether it is necessary for it to be moderate. Of course, as a co-note, it can be said that the objective is well formulated, but the difficulty of assessing the objective is due to the fact that it is not precisely defined, it is not clear which tasks remain with the local authority. Much has been said about the plan to redraw the map and make these larger local government units, and then to see what happens to them, what remains of their task and what remains of the state and what are the standards of services. This makes the assessment of the objective vague and difficult at present. We say yes, we have a good goal, but how can we make it clear what a municipality or a city can look like to achieve this goal? Here there are already difficulties with the vagueness of this objective itself. This is the old problem, which has been said a lot, that the administrative reform has not been approached in a complex way, but that attempts are being made first to carry out the administrative territorial reform and then to see what happens next. Basically, that's not right. We will then come to these criteria. Is coercion an appropriate way of achieving the beautiful objective of administrative capacity of local authorities and of providing and guaranteeing a good level of public services? The main problem here is that whether or not it is administratively feasible, whether or not the objective is met, is currently measured on the basis of one criterion, and it is 5000 inhabitants. The claim that this 5000 inhabitants are so scientifically justified that there is nothing more to talk about here and there is no need for any other criteria, that if 5 000 inhabitants exist, then everything is fine, and if 5 000 inhabitants are not, then the administrative capacity is no longer, I do not believe that this criterion is sufficient to measure. I don't think that's really the case. And now the main problem arises that, if you want to assess whether a municipality or city is administratively capable or not, whether it can continue to be the way it is, or if you have to do something about it, whether it has to join or whether it has to be forced to join, it is not possible to give the right answer in terms of achieving the target on the basis of this 5000-person criterion. After all, there are municipalities and cities with fewer than 5 000 inhabitants and where everything is actually in order, which you could say they have already met the objective of administrative reform. They are capable of providing good public services; they are administratively efficient. And now it's gonna be a problem for 5,000 people, but nobody's gonna judge it, nobody's gonna deal with it. I think it is basically wrong to write down some specific figures. A specific number means that there will indeed be such irrational situations where, if there are five fewer people, there will be no administrative capacity and if there are five more people, there will be administrative capacity. That's not right. The number may have meaning, but the number should be of magnitude, and in this case other criteria on the basis of which a decision can be made are inevitably necessary. It seems to me that there has probably been an attempt to go a simpler way of resisting. It's a temptation to reform. In the first half of the 1990s, when I had the honour of making many presentations before this Chamber in connection with the reform laws, it was always a temptation to do well in the drafting of the reform laws, so that reform could be carried out quickly, and that is understandable to everyone. The real life was that the law had to be improved many, many times, because life itself is not that simple. However, in the case of the Administrative Reform Act, it will not be able to be improved many times afterwards; this problem needs to be resolved relatively quickly. Neither is the law consistent with this criterion of 5,000 inhabitants. There are exceptions, but they are not sufficient. Let's say, the exception is that there may also be a municipality of 3500 inhabitants that can be considered capable. Now we ask the question: if, for example, there is now a municipality with 4 000 inhabitants, where everything is fine, the people are satisfied, the services are guaranteed, there is nothing wrong, can there be an exception for him? A rhetorical question. The answer must be no, there can be no exception for him, not even this 3,500 exception, because this exception can only be granted if it has already been merged before, if there have been two municipalities that have joined before and then there are not 5 000 inhabitants, but more than 3 500. The question now arises as to why, for example, this municipality, which has been joined and has 4 000 inhabitants, is more administrative than the one with 4 000 inhabitants, which has not been joined, but has been well-lived since then. After all, this is not an objective assessment of administrative capacity, but it is simply said that yes, those who have already joined are now, how to say, I apologize for the expression, obedient, have behaved well, have joined, and they can be left alone. But their administrative capacity is not assessed, or, if assessed, why the other one is not assessed. This is one of the biggest problems of all this law that the administrative capacity of the municipalities and cities that have actually met the objective of administrative reform is not being addressed. We will then put a direct question to the legislator in your form in a rhetorical way: why has this basic criterion, the minimum criterion, not included in any other criteria, which, at the same time, will be taken into account when granting exemptions? For example, the Administrative Division of the Estonian Territory Act, which is currently in force, contains very good criteria in subsection 7 (5) to determine whether a compulsory merger is necessary. Here account is taken of historical justification, the impact on people's living conditions, people's sense of cohesion, the impact on the quality of public service delivery, the impact on administrative capacity, etc. There are ten criteria in the current law that can be taken into account when granting exceptions in the Administrative Reform Act, but not in the general rule. Then why isn't this the general rule? Probably because the assessment of these criteria would be much more complex, more time-consuming and energy-consuming. At the moment it is very easy to either have 5,000 inhabitants or not. This may lead to the conclusion that this 5 000 population alone is not enough to achieve the beautiful objective of administrative reform to increase administrative capacity. The geographical position, the size of the territory and the income base are completely excluded. All right, they say 5,000 people provide an adequate income base. But 5,000 per se doesn't guarantee much yet, it still depends on where the municipality is. If one thoughtful rural municipality, where there may be a few thousand inhabitants, is near Tallinn for example, people are working in Tallinn and the income base and income are larger, then it is quite different from the area with a higher population somewhere on the edge of Estonia. Now, the necessity of a coercion. The basic argument is still the same suitability. There is a need to assess necessity, and the issue here is, above all, that it is necessary to make compulsory coupling in order to achieve the objective if this cannot be achieved in a different way, unless it is possible to improve the quality of services in a different way, where compulsory coupling is the only option. Then we can come back to this first criterion. But why would a coercion be necessary if everything was actually okay? Now the next problem is that everything is fine, but no one is interested in it because the population is small. It is said, yes, that cooperation has not so far succeeded, that it is not effective and that this idea of cooperation should be rejected. Looking at this from the point of view of the legislator, the state has not done everything in its power or has done very little to promote this cooperation. It should be made clear here that there really are services for which it is possible to make joint institutions on several municipalities, as provided for by the Constitution, but the central issue is that it is necessary to maintain independence when deciding on the issues of local life. That's the problem that I'm about to come to with the next criterion of moderation. What will be the role of the state in guaranteeing these services is inconclusive at all. This will become clear at the next stage. It is very difficult to decide on necessity, as it is not known exactly what will remain on the state and what will be on the local government units. The question of moderation. Moderateness is such a more complicated criterion, which summarises a number of aspects. That's the consideration of pluses and minuses. The ripples are moderate when you can say that the pluses that result from this latch are outweighed by the minuses. This needs to be assessed at both social and community level. So far, advocates of the Administrative Reform Act have argued that it is so necessary for society that, as the public interest is so high, it weighs everything else up. In a democratic country, it should not be the case that there is an abstract public interest, which must be sacrificed not by one or two municipalities, but by many local authorities. It must be borne in mind here that it can still be in the interests of society what is in the interests of the local people. We now come to a central question. I have mentioned only Section 3 of the COKS so far, but the main principle of local government, which arises both from the Constitution and from the European Charter for Local Government, is that it is still possible to decide local issues independently. The level of decision-making must come relatively close to the people affected by this local life. I find it strange to read in some newspapers that there is a story that half of the county is joining, that there is a large parish and that some towns are among them, so great. The bigger, the better. Then there could be only a few local governments in Estonia, perhaps there could be only one local government, so it would be even better. In fact, even economic efficiency in the provision of services may be found, but power goes away with it, local issues are no longer decided by the local community. It is true that the local community still does not overlap with the concept of a rural municipality. Maybe so, maybe so, but it's clear that if the territory becomes very large and the power goes very far, it will be decided somewhere far away. What are the questions of local life? Above all, for example, detailed planning, where to allow something to be built, where there will be a way to organise something. These are not just services literally, they are issues of local life where the right to decide should be as close as possible to the local population. Right now, this 'the bigger, the better' goes against this principle. After all, this is not a situation that is well - known in the philosophy that a person can benefit objectively from what he opposes. For example, a little kid cries and doesn't want to go to a dentist, but if he's still getting there, it's good for him. I have this feeling that people are treating rural municipalities and cities the same way now: you do not understand what is good for you. After all, forced marriages and forced making them happy have not led to anything very good. What does that mean? This means that the nature of the local government is blurring and that there is already a significant violation of the Constitution. Is this any longer a very local authority, when it covers a very large territory and matters of local life are decided in such a way that local people do not have much say in it? In conclusion, it could be said that, in my opinion, compulsory coupling is not appropriate, necessary or moderate in order to achieve the objective of administrative reform, but is disproportionate and violates the Constitution. Just a few more questions. Much has been said about merger grants. There is nothing wrong with simply having an accession prize for those who volunteer to join, just as there has always been. But if there is now a situation where those who do not agree to join voluntarily and are forced to join will not receive any support, then it seems to me that this should not be done at national level. It's still punishment. You can be flattered, but you shouldn't be punished. What's the support? After all, support is the money needed to develop local life. What, then, has the legislator really said? It has been said that where the ideology behind this reform does not want to behave, i.e. if there is no voluntary accession, the development of local life does not deserve to be supported. Whether it is contrary to the Constitution or not is somewhat questionable. Let the Supreme Court make its assessment. But certainly contrary to the Constitution, it is contrary to a constitutional financial guarantee when it is said that expenditure relating to a merger is not to be reimbursed beyond a certain limit. In any event, the expenditure must be reimbursed. It is clear that if the law imposes an obligation, the costs involved must be reimbursed. If, in the case of justified expenditure, there is a limit and there is still no more compensation for these costs, then there is already a barrier to a financial guarantee that can be called an infringement. A few principles. It is not only by these three criteria that the decision is taken. The constitutional principles shall be taken into account, in particular, in the assessment of moderation. A legitimate expectation. According to my legitimate expectations, I have reason to expect that I will not be made to be coerced. Who can have this legitimate expectation? Those with 5,000 inhabitants. If 5,000 inhabitants exist and they say yes, it's so scientifically justified that everything is very well, can it be peaceful? Depends on who their neighbors are. If there is one next to them who is not administratively able, then they may still be threatened by a forced merger. Can those who have already joined, who have done so that they have received praise from everywhere in the government, feel secure? Not by a long shot. Now it is still the case that if they do not have 5,000 full, then legitimate expectations will be equally violated. Legal certainty. There are many examples of any principle, but I will try to be relatively brief. How should deadlines be set? For one operation or another, a reasonable time limit should be set, to discuss how much time is needed for an operation. How did this law happen? It's the other way around. It has just been taken in October 2017 and started to look back there to accommodate all the operations that need to be done by then. There is nowhere to be seen that a reasonable need has been considered, but this period is more or less divided into intermediate periods, where this must be done, that and the third. Legal clarity. Ladies and gentlemen, the rules must be clear and unambiguous. This administrative reform law has happened in such a way that one of the most central rules is formulated in a completely unclear way. This is Section 9 (9) (1) of the same Administrative Reform Act. Who can read it now or read it carefully at home. What do you mean, it's an important passage? All this mechanics is that if the municipality or the city does not wish to join voluntarily, the government will make known to him its wish to join him. The municipality or city then conducts a survey among its residents, puts forward its arguments as to whether or not it agrees with the compulsory merger and, if it does not agree, why not. The question now is that, on the basis of Article 9 (9) (1) of the Administrative Reform Act, the government can decide whether to say yes, that your position is justified, we are not compulsion to unite you, you may be able to proceed as you are. The question now must be asked whether the 4,000 or over 3500, in any case for a municipality of less than 5 000 inhabitants, where administrative capacity is beyond doubt, could be a straw so that it could still exist on its own. This conflict could be § 9 (9) (1) of the Administrative Reform Act. But what does the legislator say here? In assessing whether a municipality is forced to join or terminate the proceedings and to allow it to continue living as it has been before, the circumstances set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of that section shall be taken into account. No legal provision, the honourable legislator, must look like this. There are many circumstances, and the government can decide, at its own discretion, what it will take into account of these criteria and what it will not take into account. The explanatory memorandum doesn't make any sense in this regard. Even with regard to exceptions, there is now a small beam of light that maybe the government interprets that way, but there is no certainty or clarity about it. This brings us to the next problem, which is the substantive lack of judicial protection. The absence of substantive judicial protection means that if you go to the administrative court with this regulation, there is nothing to rely on. What needs to be changed? We need to change those places where there are problems. I very much hope that the Supreme Court will accept this, and you, the honourable Riigikogu, will have a good reason to come back to resolving them. What does that mean? This does not mean that something very bad should happen to the administrative reform; it does not prevent the reform from taking place. No one, neither I nor the parishes that are arguing here is against the reform. It is simply a matter of resolving this substantive problem, of defining the criteria for determining administrative capacity to ensure that the target set is met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U22	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm a little confused. There were two very thorough, strong reports. The first waitress spoke about how everything is bad, that all in all there is widespread peripheralisation, or local authorities cannot manage to organise local life. The other waitress spoke in more detail about the fact that everything is great, people are very pleased. It's like talking about different countries. I was also confused that at the beginning you spoke about how bad it was that only one criterion was taken into account when assessing administrative capacity, and at the end you arrived at the fact that too many criteria were taken into account for straw. So what's right? Is it too little or too much, or are there both? You also stressed that the state should force the municipalities to cooperate. But if one municipality imposes any agreements on the other, it is known that the decision of the management bodies has been indirectly chosen. The European Charter for Local Government also makes clear that decision-makers must be directly elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Veikko Luhalaid, thank you for this very sincere, immediate and truly faithful presentation! The Estonian Free Party Group also voted against the administrative reform law presented in this form. But my question may be most relevant to your experience as a long-term head of government. In so far and at what times has there ever been such a form of dialogue between the government and the municipality over these services, that the state is responsible for it, the municipality again for it, and the money moves in this way and the money moves around? How many such substantive discussions and solutions have there been over the years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your meaningful presentation. It can be seen that people have been in contact with local governments in practice. I ask a very simple question: if, for example, the government you manage wanted to join someone, under what conditions would he join? The Administrative Reform Act has been passed, but it is known that 18 laws have not been adopted, which in essence should determine the financing and tasks of the municipality. How do you join if you don't even know what's coming? Well, that's Parliament's fault. I have not been involved in the production of this scrap because the government has not brought these drafts into this hall. However, it is not possible to undertake the accession process if 18 drafts have not even come to this Chamber of the Riigikogu. How can this process be carried forward in this way? How do you comment on the basis of which you can join if you do not even know what the accession conditions are and what about funding and tasks?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U25	Thank you. I suppose it is, as I said in my report, that two things are leading this process, firstly fear and secondly personal greed. They want to go through the voluntary process as soon as possible, whether it's the Flood or whatever, but I'm out of it. That means I'm gonna get a year's salary, but I'm sure I'm gonna have to move out of this neighborhood and find a new job in other playgrounds. Our municipality has entered into negotiations with the city of Narva-Jõesuu. We are very happy and benevolently able to deal with each other. We are based on the fact that we do not take into account this criterion of 5 000 inhabitants and exclude from the calculations compensations and those things that, apparently, because of the small size of our population, may not come. Perhaps we will also be punished for turning to the Supreme Court with certain nuances in the future. As you know, today it is already working: only municipalities with 5 000 or more inhabitants can apply for kindergarten investment grants. We have taken this into account, so we will talk to Narva-Jõesuu about what we both think we can do together and how far we can develop together. If negotiations with Narva-Jõesuu lead to the result that accession is currently unacceptable, we will not join either. It is my good wish and will that we join Narva-Jõesuu, but the opinions of the parish council members and members of the community are very, very mixed, so it is quite difficult to meet everyone. If this process doesn't work out, it won't, but we'll talk through the things we know. For 25 years, we are used to not knowing what tomorrow will bring. Remember how the VAT Act was amended. Remember that VKG and Eesti Energia complained about the rise in resource charges to the Supreme Court, the state lost this case because the increase was too rapid and the state was obliged to pay back money to mining companies. Do you know what happened to us? What do you think? We had announced a call for the construction of a new building in place of a burnt school house and it had ended, but then the tax administration announced that, since the state lost the process, we would be held for EUR 104000 for future periods. Then we ran through the ministries to get help from somewhere, because you can't do a public procurement without money. The judgment of the Supreme Court was not caused by our poor quality work, we were the beneficiaries of this tax by law, but if the work of poor quality, say, in this Chamber, led to the decision being changed, then we were the sufferer. This is also the case with the administrative reform: you are clean, it is up to us to decide whether or not to take the opinion of the residents into account. It's us who's been beaten.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You also briefly discussed your presentation on the financial autonomy and financing of local authorities. You mentioned a ranking where we were somewhere in the back. It is clear that the share of property and real estate taxes in the income of local government is relatively small in Estonia compared to other countries. Do you have a position on this matter at all and, if so, what is your view about, for example, converting land tax, which has been in force for years, into real estate tax? Even if there is a commercial land on the territory of the municipality, the Land Tax Act does not distinguish whether the commercial land is empty or whether there is a large cash flow trade or other business object. What is your position on the transformation of land tax into real estate tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U27	Thank you. This position cannot be clear to me because there are many other problems in our local government, and this part of the tax is not of vital importance to us. That is why I say that there are different opinions as many as there are municipalities. Our life would be greatly affected, for example, by the change in the fact that personal income tax is divided into half or some other proportion between the person's place of residence and the municipality of employment. I'll tell you why. You see, as many municipalities as there are, there are also very different cases in this administrative reform process. Large companies of Eesti Energia are located in our territory. There are 1750 residents and 3000 jobs in our area. So everyone should get a job and there shouldn't be any unemployed people. But the unemployment rate is the average. What is evident? The behaviour of entrepreneurs is logical and I fully understand them: the bus takes workers from the centre of Sillamäe to the mine and from the centre of Narva to the power plant. The companies are located in our territory, but if our peasant gets this job, he will not be competitive because he needs to drive a few decades along the villages to get the power plant to work. Here's the nuance. Real estate tax is, yes, one option. In fact, the land has not been assessed regularly for ten years. In Narva-Jõesuu, this would give the municipality ample opportunity to actually take into account the differences arising from the cost of the land. It's a matter of local democracy. Next, corporate income tax, you can argue about it and not argue about it. The proportional income tax proposed by the Centre Party, too, can be argued and not disputed. But I want to say that everyone has a position based on political views and regional position. But the tax system could be open to debate. It is not normal what is happening in Estonia that it has been untouched for 25 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U28	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U29	Thank you. The wisdom of an educated Europe says that a fool learns from his mistakes, if he learns at all, from the mistakes of others, and especially from history. 125 years ago, after the municipalities of Estonia had been working for a quarter of a century and many of them had joined peacefully, the Russian state had the desire to unite the municipalities with power, by decision, which led to the fact that in the course of the revolution of 1905, which broke out ten years later, thousands of people were sent to Siberia by decision, mostly the previous parish elders or those who were from the other end of the parish that did not want to join. It's been silenced in the history books, and it's more like it's written on the estate. I wonder whether, despite the fact that we have been talking all along about the fact that you are so well aware of the mistakes made in history, some of the authors of these reforms have dared to look to the history experience, or have not yet done so, and we are acting in a way that the educated Europe does not recommend to behave?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U30	Thank you. That's a good question. Again, the emotional direct answer is that it probably hasn't been viewed. The 1938 rural municipality reform during Päts is often spoken of, not to mention its actual content, why Päts did so, and which Parliament therefore developed, was multi-chambered, and where its members came from. No one usually knows anything about this, at least not in the office where these things are run. If you could talk a little more in this hall and ask questions, maybe you could get these nuances.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U31	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm gonna ask you this way. You said that several municipalities did not have enough money to go to court to protect their citizens. As a long-term head of government, do you think that this lack of money is due to the failure of these local government leaders to manage well, or because the state has maliciously imposed more and more obligations on them and, at the same time, has cut their wallets?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U33	Thank you. It's probably a combination, a cumulative effect. Nobody's guilty on their own. We work in every area of life here, from the environment to the political system, all together. As I said in the report, there are a lot of personal mistakes and local governments' own mistakes. But you know, even in the context of this reform, if for a moment come back to the fact that maybe some local government has been incompetent, made mistakes and somehow got between the stones, there are objective indicators on the basis of which the state would have been able to organize the processes by coercion a long time ago. It is not today's discovery that it is possible to coercion. I may be wrong about the year, but I'm telling you, I think there were 32 other municipalities like this in 2013... Okay, I'm not playing with numbers and I'm saying there was a certain number of municipalities that didn't have a general plan, even though it had been a requirement of law since 1996. There are municipalities that have not been able to present an annual report in time and for a very long time. These are fully objective indicators that could and could intervene, but these levers have not been used. Besides what we've been offering? Must the municipality association be simply a coffee-drinking office in the middle of the county where you can talk about and discuss the burning problems of the day, which are written by Eesti Päevaleht and Õhtuleht, or should it still be possible to cooperate in substance and whether membership, funding or forms of cooperation should be forced there? It could have been done a long time ago. We are debating whether or not to grant the municipal union the status of a legal person governed by public law. The Ministry of Finance (previously the administration of the Ministry of Interior Regional Ministry) says that this is not possible because it is the autonomy of the local government, etc. Trat-tat-tat-tat, as it were. Yes, everything is right, in a sense it may not be legal, but in the case of the Union it is generally, as Mr Varul has pointed out, not in terms of abusive administration, but in terms of favourable administration. Therefore, any nuances that we have been told about the unacceptability of a legal person governed by public law are somewhat inappropriate. It would have been possible to do all this a long time ago. Now the local government's own mistakes. See, not all mistakes are misguided, and not all mistakes are made out of stupidity or stupidity, some mistakes are made simply out of ignorance. I do not know today whether or not I will make a mistake in terms of this law on 31 December 2016. If it happens that I have to go, I'm gonna take the money with me, like I said, and I'm gonna have to run away. Because when the mistake is made, I've made it. Mistakes are often made because we are in a state of compulsion. We don't know what the future holds. I've already told you about the tax administration's recovery on our parish. Our budgetary strategy showed that we were able to make this call, that there was money, but in the middle of the process, the IRS decided that this money would be taken away from us. Legally, we broke the law, made a mistake. But from what or from who? We live together with everyone else, and it is not possible to say that someone is guilty somewhere alone. There are certain institutions in a democratic country and these institutions simply need to communicate, agree and find compromises; they must not live in silo towers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U34	Thank you very much, Your Honored Attorney. You have a lot of questions, too. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U35	You got me a little wrong. In this extremely legal clarity provision, Paragraph 9 (9) (1) of the Administrative Reform Act does not contain many criteria, but it is entirely unclear which criteria can be used since paragraphs 2 and 3 are different criteria. Then why not clearly state on which criteria the government can decide on the most central issue. The city or municipality will make the last attempt and justify that it is administratively capable, etc. And it is now unclear which criteria can or must be decided by the government. The legislator must write it down. I don't have much time to talk about this judicial defense. If the government says no, makes an unfavourable order against the municipality or the city, then the municipality or the city should have the opportunity to go to the administrative court. What's he doing in that administrative court? He can show that the government has broken the law, has not complied with the law. And since the law is so unclear, it actually loses its judicial protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U36	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I would have liked to ask this question to Mailis Reps, but since the Central Partymen themselves ask and answer and talk about this time, I will now ask you. Presidential candidate Mailis Reps firmly confirmed that if he were the president, he would not have declared this empty law. According to the Constitution, the President cannot randomly choose laws which he or she likes and which he or she does not like, and then either declare them or not declare them accordingly. He still has to rely on the Constitution. I am also thinking of the representatives of the local authorities who have been invited here, think about whether you intend to support a presidential candidate who is ignoring our constitution. My question is whether Mailis Reps violates the Constitution by saying so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U38	I answer basically. I'm not a politician, leave me out of this, so I don't have to judge anyone's statements. But what the President should evaluate in principle is whether there is a contradiction with the Constitution or not. He may not declare the law, send it back to the Riigikogu if he finds that there is a contradiction with the Constitution. One of the problems with this law is that a thorough constitutional analysis has not been carried out before. At least I haven't seen it anywhere. The Ministry of Justice wrote in autumn 2015 that it was necessary to carry out a proper analysis of the constitutional compatibility of this bill. In the explanatory memorandum it's very close, declaratively touched, just about so that there's no contradiction, everything's fine, everything's fine. The analysis hasn't been done. The President's desk should also have had this constitutional review, and if the President had found that there was, in fact, a contradiction, he should have sent the law back here. It's a matter of judgment. I can't say for sure right now either, yes, it's against the Constitution. I think so, but that's what the Supreme Court can decide. As strange as it may seem, the only analysis is at least I have not seen anything else, which we ourselves have done. I do not want to praise my office now, but unfortunately it turned out that only in August 2016 was the first comprehensive, 50-page analysis of constitutional compliance completed. I'm sorry if I'm unfair to anyone when it's done somewhere before, but I haven't seen it anywhere in these materials.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U39	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U40	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U41	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U42	Thank you. If I say it on the basis of emotion, it hasn't been. When I say on the basis of knowledge, there have been discussions in specific areas, for example, between the social workers of the local government and the Ministry of Social Affairs or, for example, about changes to the law on law enforcement. But you know what are the debates, which have been very much in the delegations of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments and the Estonian Union of Cities negotiations. We'll discuss it. In the case of this law too, let's say, these democratic processes were essentially carried out, in other words, in the table there were crosses, how many counties have been driven through, where seminars and involvement have taken place. But none of our substantive proposals have ever been taken into account. We can start with the fact that in 2011 we organised a general assembly of cities and municipalities with national associations, with more than 160 municipalities involved, and made our proposals there to reform the state and local government on the basis of the knowledge of that time, living in that time. There was virtually no feedback. The current process of administrative reform is much more democratic than the previous one and the previous one, because there is a lot of travelling and talking. But there's no counting. Respect for position, I dare say, and there is absolutely no taking responsibility. When we talk about the inability of local governments to join and the fact that there are too many small local governments in Estonia, as I said before, I admit that there are anomalies that need to be dealt with. Both Paul Varul and the other waitress on the principle of how to deal with it spoke, but in the press I can't see or hear it anywhere, and no one has done a serious analysis either. I am taking advantage of this opportunity to say that we had 213 municipalities at the beginning of the year, and over the years, in this 25 year period, 68 have joined. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, 68 have joined! Is this the rhetoric that hasn't happened in ten years? It's been a voluntary merger. I mean, over a quarter of it has been merged, which is the result we had. Often, we use in Latvia I have already talked about some shiny pictures of something and not actually telling the truth and the whole truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U43	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U44	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In the Free Party Group, I have met several local government leaders. It has become apparent that there is a lack of clarity about tasks and the revenue base, but two other significant observations have been made. One is that there is a move towards a very clear centralisation, which also means that the decision-making powers of the communities will be lost. The second is that within the framework of this law, if we leave the income base and tasks the same, the situation of rural municipalities in comparison with the capital will not change. This is the same as your observation that the very important problem of regional location remains. What is your assessment, is that correct? In the case of administrative reform, should we still think about restructuring the capital issue, or would it not be affected?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U45	Thank you. I reply with the words of Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise that if local governments are set as examples in Tallinn, then it should be taken into account that in fact Tallinn is not a classical municipality. We cannot rely on one very big and exceptional thing in Estonia. As many as there are people, parties and communities, there are also different opinions. Now I say, in the words of Professor Mäeltseman, that, when asked whether administrative reform is necessary in Estonia, I will answer, yes, it is necessary, and I am in favour of it if it is done as I say. So that's probably the answer. This is the place of such broad agreements, and we have not reached objective criteria. This was also discussed by a trained colleague.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U46	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U47	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Of course, it is more than strange that today's coalition has not even been able to properly define the concept of local government's administrative capacity, whether it is organising services and assessing the quality of services or whether it is creating jobs and developing the economy. All of this has actually not been done for a very simple reason: they do not want to replay resources. But does this fight have any perspective today? In the judgment of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010, the Supreme Court has very clearly called for the definition of the functions of state and local authority, for the exorcism of the expenses necessary to perform them, and then for separation. The President of the Republic went to Parliament in 2012 to complain about why we have failed to do so under the leadership of today's coalition. What is the perspective of this fight if the Supreme Court makes a decision, but the government coalition actually ignores it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U48	Thank you. These disputes are inherently slightly different. If we focus for a moment on this 2010 decision, we believe that it is not to be implemented, although the Regional Minister at the time said that two tasks have been found, however, which are national and for which the municipalities must be financed. In essence, this is the dilemma that we have discussed this very much also during the accession process, which will then proceed with this decision. The decision of the Supreme Court is, however, the one who filed the complaint and who is affected feels that the decision is unfulfilled. What are the levers? There are no levers. We've been discussing what happens next. Do we now have to go to the administrative court with the decision of the Supreme Court and get a court of law against the state? What can I do? Do we have to start a war? It is completely incomprehensible how this is possible in a democratic country, but you will see that it is possible. Speaking of today's dispute, it has to be said that three points have been contested here. It is likely that the government coalition could decide and do this. For example, if the coercion and the future time constraints that prevent elections are still declared null and void, then this process, I admit, is much easier than the execution of the Supreme Court's decision of 2010. It is a simpler process, both in time and in resource intensity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U49	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U50	Thank you. Mr Varul, thank you very much for this meaningful presentation. I would like to clarify that one law should give certainty to the subjects of the law and meet legitimate expectations. You said that this law should tell the local government, under which condition he would not be caught by a coercion. According to the current criterion, even those municipalities that already have 5 000 inhabitants do not have this knowledge. They may also be caught by a coercive merger if their neighbour has decided to remain independent, but the government will decide to join next year if the coercive merger remains. What is the certainty, for example, if the three municipalities negotiate to form a new self-government with more than 5,000 inhabitants, but they have a neighbour who wants to continue to be independent? In these cases, too, all negotiations can blow up if the government decides to make a forced merger next year and join the fourth party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U51	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Recalling the process of processing the administrative reform law, we were allowed 18 drafts adding content to the reform for the second quarter of this year. It's the third quarter. We have a beautiful and even magical number 5,000 population, but we cannot give the local governments a clear signal that is yet to change. Nobody disputes the need for administrative reform, but what do you think should be done about the situation that has arisen? Should the reform be postponed? For example, should the deadline for voluntary accession be extended, or do we insist consistently, without knowing all the nuances of the substantive changes to the reform, the merger of local governments, or as expressed in the language of the people, that they buy a piggy in a bag?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U53	As far as voluntary accession is concerned, I do not think it makes any sense to hold it back, prohibit it or prevent it or put it on hold. In view of the current situation, it is also possible to assess the tasks of the local government and the expected or expected services. And if the parties want to join, why not? It gets more complicated when we come to a forced merger. There is a conflict situation here if the municipality or city does not want to join, but wishes to continue to be independent and the government says that no, must not. Not only do we need more precise criteria here, which I referred to, but what I talked about at the very beginning is also important in relation to the objective of the reform. In the event of a dispute, it must be clear and understandable to everyone why one or another city or municipality needs to be forced to unite, why life will then be expected to improve. Indeed, there is a need for clarity here on what remains exactly on the local government, which remains on the state's side, and more importantly on what the standards of public services will be. If you study foreign literature, for example, in Germany it has been considered to be one of the greatest problems. There was also a reform and they had the same thing that the standards for services were not defined, it was not clear which services were being pursued. We say yes, there is a need to ensure better public services, but what should be the services to be pursued? On this basis, it could also be decided that no, this or another municipality or city is currently unable to provide such a level of service, in which case the compulsory merger would be necessary. But the problem now is that there is not even a chance to discuss whether or not one city or rural municipality is doing well right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U54	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Varel, thank you for your very clear presentation. In my opinion, it also sounded at the beginnings of the arguments that the President of the Republic could have used to challenge this law, but he did not. Especially this population as a rather one-sided and sole criterion. I also looked at paragraph 9 (1) which is very vague indeed. I will ask you about what you have answered in part with regard to the previous question. Which chapters or thematic developments were so clearly missing, which would have been much better, and perhaps you would have failed to write your critical article as well? Finally, it cannot be said, as a marginal remark, that the amendments to this draft were not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U56	It just got a little busy at the end of here. I still wanted to be constructive. What, then, should be changed? It is not now that the Supreme Court has received such a request to declare the law on administrative reform incompatible with the Constitution and to repeal it. We have shown concrete provisions that should be abolished and that should be replaced by something else. And basically, this rigid requirement of 5000 inhabitants should be waived. As a measure of magnitude, it may be, or there is nothing wrong with it, but it should be accompanied by other criteria. For example, they say, yes, not all things are very good for you, but 5,000 people exist, there is potential, you are not being forced to join. And if these criteria are laid down, there is no need for exceptions in itself. However, if, for some reason, the legislator decides to maintain this 5000 criterion, the exceptions must be set out in a very clear and precise manner in Paragraph 9 (9) (1). We are not talking about the financial guarantee and some other provisions yet, but the main question is that the law has a clear answer: if there is one administrative capacity of a city or municipality with less than 5000 inhabitants, then it must be possible to essentially decide what will happen to this city or municipality, not to force it to join according to one of the formal criteria. This is the main problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U57	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U58	Thank you. Dear Mr. Varel! You said that the Constitution provides an opportunity for administrative-territorial reform, both at the top of the government's initiative and through negotiations between local authorities. I can't remember any steps taken by the government that would have made border changes on its initiative, but I think it is at government level that bottlenecks in local governments should be removed, where there is a bad picture of public services being provided. It is now proposed that all local authorities should be demolished and built at the same time. It's been said to be a peculiar campaign. I'd like to know your opinion on why our government is doing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U59	I think it's not so much the government, it's still the law. At present, it is the legislator's will to make such provision in the law. If we disregard the fact that the government has submitted this draft, then the government still has an executive role and the government must also be governed by the law. The government has a very large playing field with this same unclear provision. So there's a provision that can turn your whole life upside down. But then the question arises as to how widely it can interpret this paragraph 9 (1) of the Administrative Reform Act. I think this is about the quality of the law, not the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U60	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U61	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! How successfully do you think it is to determine the opinion of the local residents as laid down in the Administrative Reform Act and the responsibility of local councils to take this opinion into account or not? Does the law in this regard require any modification or clarification in your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U62	Thank you. In a small lack of time, this question was not touched, so thank you very much for this question! Yes, it is indeed necessary, both by virtue of the Constitution and by virtue of the Charter of Local Government, to hear the opinion of the local people. Now the question arises as to what meaning to give to it. In fact, it has not been given any practical meaning. Good administrative practice could be that if the government had to apply for a local authority not to be forced to join, where it has been shown that all or most of the local residents are opposed to it, this could be taken into account. But the government's hands are tied in the sense that it must also relate to other criteria arising from the law. The answer to your question is: yes, it should be included in the law, even if it is much referred to by me in Paragraph 9 (9) (1). This would be one of the criteria for deciding to consider it as one of the others. There can never be a way that only on this basis. Indeed, the point of the Constitution is not that only local residents can decide whether or not to change borders. But right now, I agree with you if the idea behind your question was that this opinion has not been given the right weight in law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U63	Dear attorney Paul Varul, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Veikko Luhalaidi, Chairman of the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U64	Honourable Bureau! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable guests! First of all, thank you so much for inviting me here! Why do I have the courage to speak on this subject? Namely, I have been in the municipality of Vaivara since 2000 and for more than ten years I have also been Chairman of the Board of the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa. So I have been on this subject, I dare say, with all my hairs from the beginning, along with, against and in favour of these discussions. If today, when 25 years have passed since the restoration of independence, look back in history and ask how we managed to restore independence, it is clear that this was a so-called cumulative effect. We had very strong, democratically elected local councils created, and if there had been a setback at any level, the preservation of a democratic voice would have ensured the cumulative progress of any legitimate decisions made by this country. Unfortunately, there is a new situation. Let's look at the system created at the time. If you ask why it was necessary to separate Kohtla-Nõmme Municipality from Kohtla-Järve in Ida-Virumaa, for example, the answer is that it was of national importance and important at the time. Today, however, they are guilty of being so small and unable to cope. When the country needed it and we all needed it, it was necessary, but no one wants to take our opinion into account today. I'm getting to that. Ladies and gentlemen, you have adopted this law. In order to decide, there must be knowledge. Knowledge is useful because the decision-maker has to be held accountable. Today it has been said that 18 legislative acts have not been adopted. You've put the next decision-making and responsibility on our hands. This means that in our local governments, we have to choose partners based on a single criterion of 5 000 inhabitants. We need to make a decision, with the referendum, or the opinion of the population, not being taken into account. Even if we make it our responsibility, you will still force us to act against the opinion of the people, against the opinion of the people. If you are currently communicating with the local government leaders, you can see that the personal chair or job issues have almost disappeared, because the candy that has been offered is delicious. The employees and leaders of the municipalities are no longer afraid; now there is real opposition from the residents. But the people are opposed because fear leads us in this process. This fear begins personally from the surface that if we do not make this decision voluntarily, I may be unemployed and without compensation. We are led by the fear that if we do not join together voluntarily, we will be deprived of development money, and I will be forever guilty of this process before the local community. That is why our aim and the idea of going to the Supreme Court was to separate the two processes. The voluntary merger that I am in favour of, and which I am encouraging and leading in my area, is perfectly natural and normal. But in the next four years, you could essentially think through the forced integration phase. By then you could have enough knowledge to decide and have the courage to take responsibility. We are talking about local government capacity or inability. Do you know what was surprising to me in the process that we have appealed to the Supreme Court as a senior local government leader? I spoke to the local government leaders who disagreed with this law so that they would join our complaint. Can you imagine how much I heard in the answer that there's no money? This analysis was super expensive and this complaint is very expensive. If the municipality does not have the money to stand up for the rights of its inhabitants, it is still an incredible situation that we have reached. A month ago, a summer seminar was held in Aruküla by Polise, where researchers from the University of Tartu Ukrainski and Timpmann performed. It was about fiscal autonomy or the finances of local governments, let's say so. I cannot tell you whether you are now addressing the coalition in this hall We're the last ones next to Greece. Very many scientists have said that when it comes to capacity, financial issues, or the financing of local governments, are still fundamental. In March 2010, the Supreme Court decision we had been waiting for came. We had hoped that the Supreme Court, which is the authority of the Republic of Estonia, would take a stand regarding the functions of local governments, their funding and financial autonomy. The decision came, the decision was positive, the way we hoped. However, this decision has not been completed for six years. Perhaps we who filed this complaint have not seen any progress. I admit that municipalities are often responsible for their own misfortune, inability or ability. Unfortunately, it is a combination of its own guilt and its regional location. There's nothing to do. If Geomedia OÜ's research and local authorities' capacity index were to be explored, there is no way to read that the capacity of municipalities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants or 2,000 inhabitants would be somehow less than that of municipalities with more than 5,000 inhabitants. The differences in capacity are very clear from the regional location. This is where we really are. When I spoke to a colleague today before the report, my hair stood on my head. A municipality of 1,600 square kilometers is planned! The size of Vaivara rural municipality is 400 square kilometres. I say as the leader of the parish, I don't understand it or know what's going on on the other side of the parish. Frankly, we don't have the ability to control all the corners, because we also have waste heaps under the forest, so-called swine plagues, avian influenza and everything that goes through our lives. 1,600 square kilometers, think about it! Sulev Mäelseman, professor at the Technical University, has said that large municipalities can be created in very densely populated countries or, on the contrary, in vastly sparsely populated areas such as Lapland, Finland. It's possible in such cases. In Estonia's context, it is not bad. Let's see what's going on. There's a dispute in the Supreme Court. We don't know what the Supreme Court's decision will be. It could be for these three points, no, it could be yes, it could be different variations. Now, honourable members of the Riigikogu, here is another nuance. That's not the end of the argument. This is a standard check, as Paul Varul said. Now the Government of the Republic begins to act on this norm, that is, the saga of the Supreme Court begins exactly from the beginning, because, for example, in our local government there is such a view that if the referendum is not, our people will not go against it, but will defend the interests of the residents until the end. When the Government of the Republic takes action, it is also possible to appeal to the Supreme Court. This process is quite long. Let's see what happens next. If, for example, the referendum says no, but the local government does not have to take this position into account and the local government council says yes, then every citizen or group who feels that his constitutional rights have been violated will also have the right to appeal to the Supreme Court through the Chancellor of Justice, but now not just for your work or for the culling, but for our culling, for example, in the council. So there are thousands more ways to protest this thing. If we want to protect the interests of the local people to the end and, on the initiative of the county government, the formation of electoral commissions and electoral districts starts, it is exactly the same: these administrative acts can be appealed to all the administrative courts. Before the 2017 local elections, then, let's say, in view of the sky, a month, or a local resident, the voter does not know a month before the elections, on which territory the elections are held, who participates, where the departments are, etc. How can a democratic process be guaranteed in the elections in the local government if this is the case in time for such a fork? At the beginning of this process, self-government associations and municipalities repeatedly proposed that we do a voluntary process before the 2017 elections, then we can see what is the situation, whether there is a need for forced consolidation or there are certain other processes that will in any case force those who are lagging behind to join their neighbours. But if they don't want it, then, for God's sake, if they can do it and the residents think they can live in these municipalities, then these municipalities should be left alone. I am very surprised, it surprised me already in previous processes, that we have an example from Latvia. The players there are not satisfied with this reform; the people who have settled in these connected municipalities are not satisfied. Researchers at Tallinn University say do not take Latvia as an example, as this is an example of a failed reform. But we still have it presented. There the reform was carried out under extremely difficult conditions, with an economic growth rate of 2.2% in 2008. There were really no complaints, because no one had any money or perspective. We are forgetting that Latvia has a two-tier self-government system, which is where the second level was maintained. In the light of the Charter of Local Government, there was no point in complaining in Latvia, as there was basically no barrage in the constitutional sense. Is this coercion consistent with the spirit and purpose of the Constitution? I will give you an example of Vaivara municipality. The tables of the Ministry of Finance try to prove the ability or inability. This means, for example, that the law requires the existence of a child welfare specialist. We have a child welfare specialist. The law requires national supervision. We also have a procedural service. The law demands it, the second and the third, and we have these things. The net debt burden is halfway through. We can handle ourselves very well, we can continue on our own, but we have begun the process of voluntary accession to the City of Narva-Jõesuu. If it satisfies both sides, we will also go to the end of the voluntary process, even though the resident or community of Vaivara municipality loses very strongly in the near future. In the longer term, it is, of course, reasonable to develop the region in a coherent way and to look at all this in a coherent way. But we are missing 300 people in the circuit, and we have already received a letter from the Regional Commission that we should involve other municipalities in this circle. What are our options? Illuka parish, where no roads pass through the mines, we should drive through Illuka parish through Jõhvi. Toila Municipality, our neighbor, who negotiates with Jõhvi, Kohtla and Kohtla-Nõmme all the way to Rakvere. Would that make sense? In view of the fear of law, it should be done. But is that reasonable in the sense of the local community? No, it's not. We'll have to choose between Narva or Sillamäe. Small parish and two choices to join the metropolitan area! Our people don't want that. Based on data: Narva's financial figures can be viewed by anyone, Sillamäe's financial figures can be viewed by anyone, and this is also the reason for the ability. Whoever is the most capable in the region is put in such a fork that in any case he will be rendered incapable, also in cultural terms, if we look at the existence of, for example, the basic ethnicity and other communities, as well as in terms of democratic processes: 60000 inhabitants and 1700 inhabitants, etc. Now I am talking about the behaviour of the state, abstractly speaking about the behaviour of the state. Marko Pomerants, a great bow to him, has ever launched an Ida-Virumaa Action Plan, which would also have helped to increase the capacity of local authorities, because if the public authorities and security authorities had come to Ida-Virumaa, people would also have come and it would certainly have revived this region. This would have given impetus, firstly, as I said, to perhaps change the national community to some extent and perhaps also to employ a skilled workforce and the professional officials who come along with the state agencies. Do you know what the substantive result of this Ida-Viru County Action Plan is today? - Two! During this process, Jõhvi Prisons Division has come, but Illuka Refugee Center has been lost and we have all heard of the DMV. Maybe what are we talking about? The country goes its own way without listening to us, and then it comes to tell us that you are powerless, that you must be put together with your neighbours, because you cannot do it. Let us recall financial autonomy, the possibility of applying taxes and our tax system. What causes our inability to do so? Anyone in this hall can say that by themselves. I will say a few keywords, which I usually mention at the seminars: family doctors' offices, rescue officers, police officers, post offices, bank offices, ATMs, country shops, unemployment fund, the Ark (which I have already told you about), courts, hospitals, public transport network, land assessment, land tax, land under nature protection, flying squirrel, Rail Baltic, road financing and the increase in VAT, which took place in the meantime. Each step means moving away from a local government, taking away something from a local government, i.e. the disappearance of a service provided by a state or state enterprise. Instead of a service provided by the state, you can't stay in an empty place. Someone has to start providing this service somewhere, and that someone is a member of the council or a municipal official who comes to the door of the same parish house. Perhaps all that has been taken away from us must, after all, provide people with voluntary work or with our own local taxes. Have any opportunities been exploited to improve the situation in local governments? Local government associations are actually a joke. I've been chairman of the alliance for eleven years. We are talking to each other that there will probably be a funeral in 2017, because if the process continues, there will be no provision for improving the legal status of the local government associations and there will also be other institutions, joint agencies and joint institutions. I'm not saying it's bad, it's good, it's perfect, but here's the moment when I get back to the beginning of the story, I don't know anything about it yet, and you don't know anything about what it means to us either. Maybe we'll do what we don't know today. Fear and greed give me an annual salary, but what happens next to God with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U65	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U66	Thank you. Good performer! Indeed, in June, this law was passed in this Chamber, but the Central Party Group voted by pressing the red button, so that we were not in favour of it in this form. But don't you think that the leaders of the local governments who have joined the so-called fast and hurrah have been wanted to buy away? This annual wage-size merger grant, isn't it? It's like a flattery. But when you talk to ordinary people, it turns out you're not in favour of joining. I haven't met a lot of people who would say it's really nice to be joined. Money, financing, it's not really coming up. The situation has deteriorated over the years. This now is only one-time money. Isn't there a contradiction here, and don't you think the nature of the problem now is also the fact that some, the 'leaders', will decide, but the people will think differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U67	Thank you. As I said in my speech, today the process is the opposite of what was said earlier that the local government leaders are opposed to. In fact, the money's all for today, and everyone's gonna realize that it's quite a lot of money. In fact, it may seem unfair. Maybe it's unfair, I can't tell because I'm in this mess myself. But, on the other hand, if we go on with the processes, there's no investment or buying someone out of me now, I don't mean any corrupt practices, I guess we're still gonna have to use it. This is an elite, on whom it depends very much. But really, behind the mayor's office, it's not today. The local government leaders are pulling for a voluntary process, but now there's a wagon that can't be pulled because there's a fight elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U68	Yes, this is a problem, of course, and such things should be foreseen during the negotiations. There's nothing else I could add to what I said before. Indeed, even those who have met or are about to meet this minimum size criterion, which is said to be so iron-proof that then everything will be fine, may not be all right. If we appreciate this at present from an unconstitutional point of view, there should still not be such ambiguity and uncertainty. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U69	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, On 2 May, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this draft and the amendments made very thoroughly. One of the key issues was, like here, forced integration and the ceiling of 5 000 inhabitants. During this discussion, the representative of the Ministry of Finance put forward such an interesting argument: since the municipalities are unable to provide good enough services because there is no financial resource, we must force them to join and that the opinion of the local population on how to manage well is actually subjective and they do not even want to do better. Is it possible to determine the criteria for compulsory integration by such arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U71	After all, what you are referring to means that there is still a need for additional criteria to be decided on. I come back to this most central issue. The problem is not only that, for example, there is a four-thousand-year rural municipality or city and maybe he is administratively capable, perhaps even very administratively able. The big problem is that no one is dealing with the issue of whether they are administratively capable or not. Since he has 4,000 inhabitants, he doesn't have 5,000 inhabitants, he's automatically going to be forced out. That is why I have repeatedly drawn your attention to § 9 (9) (1). If it were made clear, there could still be some sort of lifeline, so that at least an administratively able municipality or a city with fewer than 5 000 inhabitants could somehow protect itself. At present, he does not even have the opportunity to put forward his arguments, or rather, may be put forward, but it may not be helpful if this 5000 remains the only criterion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U72	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The subject is certainly important. When we talk about the whole, about our country being stuck in development, it is clear that we need change. But I'll come to the trial. Previous rapporteurs tried to place a great deal of emphasis on the Riigikogu. Yes, the Riigikogu has legal responsibility, but in the case of this bill, I dare say, the government has a formal responsibility. The process was quite hasty and the various meetings and seminars that took place in the municipalities were not led by the relevant committee from this Riigikogu and were not included in it. This work was run by a government machine with its officials. This is an example of the fact that if the Riigikogu is not involved from the outset, what is the quality of legislation? As regards the quality of legislation, at least one current vice-president of the Riigikogu has said publicly in the media that in the case of this draft it can be said that there has been a legal failure of the Riigikogu. We must note that cooperation between the government and the Riigikogu on such important issues must be a primary issue. It cannot be managed solely at government level, because we actually have parliamentary power, not executive power. Here is the problem that the Riigikogu has become indisputable. If we had done this reform together with the coalition and opposition ambassadors and involved the municipalities, then perhaps we would have started on the right side and would not have acted as Reverse-Kust. The primary task is still to clarify what the tasks of the state and the municipality are. To claim that local governments are a priori inability to manage, I think, is not right. Administrative capacity does not depend solely on the law. Of course, this also depends on it, but there are a lot of smart people and the will to find good solutions in the current situation. So, too, administrative capacity depends very much on them. From today's reports, I was worried about whether we could understand who or what the country was. I sensed that the concept of state was used for the government and also for the Riigikogu. I think we still need to distinguish who the state is in the sense of the relevant law procedure. I would point out that the main responsible has been the government, not the state. What else have we noticed? We have noticed that we are constantly engaged in analysis. Does the analysis of the same country's tasks, which is 650 pages long, make a difference in our lives? We have noted that these analyses are not followed by political decisions. Is this where we want to spend our country's resources constantly? I don't think so. It was made very clear today that the government is dealing with intimidation, and this whole bill is about fear. Unfortunately, we see this fear mentality everywhere, regardless of the field. There are a lot of different questions coming up. Yes, we really need to ask citizens, but people are very weak in their activity. I think this activity is low because of some reason. First of all, this motivation... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U73	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U74	...courageously small. 'The local authorities of Estonia are among the largest in the European Union,' said Andrus Ansip. 'The most important role of local government in democratic governance lies in its ability to balance central government. This ability is the stronger the stronger the local authority bears the local identity. There is no point in going to destroy the roots that have been destroyed in Estonia in the last fifty years' said the Prime Minister at the time. Today, however, we are eating the soup that his ambitious successor and his associates have cooked for us since the wise man left. It would suffice to remove the paragraphs of violent merger from the law. Rape doesn't get far, and forced marriage doesn't make anyone happy. But Mr Kisler actually revealed his secret here, saying recently from this very speaker that if there is no fear of rape, then there will be no marriage, or neighbouring municipalities will not unite. It's as simple as that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U75	Thank you. Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear friends and colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the fact that the reform of local governments is only part of the broad-based and radical state reform that our beloved country urgently needs today. I am extremely pleased that we in this Parliament have made it our goal to lay the foundations for state reform. The country reform steering group set up by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has written the preliminary draft and this bone plan has been sent to all of you so that you can fill it in. However, in recognition of the good work and efforts made by Minister Arto Asa's Office in terms of the interpretation of state reform and the preparation of a further action plan, I consider it very important that it is precisely the elected representatives of the people who formulate these foundations. It would lay a strong foundation for the existing government and also for future governments to make future decisions. Once the foundation is decent, the framework is in place and the targets are set, we will all have easier and more effective action plans. If we all know the direction and we understand it the same way, we can move forward together much more effectively. The foundations of the state reform drafted by Parliament determine Estonia's future vision and the principles and lines of action of the state reform to implement it. It is also worth pointing out that realising the vision must lead to more rapid development in general and an increase in the role of Estonia in the Nordic region and in the wider world. The task of the Riigikogu and the government is to transport these changes, link activities, ensure flexibility of resources and mobilise those who make them. I stress that the primary target group of the foundations of state reform is the Riigikogu itself, as well as the government, constitutional institutions and local governments. The secondary target group is public institutions, umbrella organisations, various social groups and also the media. So real change must begin precisely here in Parliament in order to prepare our country for the next leap of development. Good people's representatives! I call on you to work very seriously on the formulation of the foundations of the state reform that you have been sent to you. We still have a situation where, due to the lack of foundation, things are done in the wrong order and, worse still, sometimes they go in the wrong direction. The reform of local government would also be much more effective and easier to implement if we had the big picture that we ourselves, good friends, have to produce. Then we would no longer be arguing about objectives or direction, but we could all focus on a proper agenda. The Riigikogu cannot wait until the executive power tries to put together the individual elements of state reform into one whole. These principles and the whole must still be drawn up by us here. So once again, please help us to fill out the bone plan that you have been sent to all of you with good and high quality content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U77	Thank you. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U78	After all, the motivation why I live in one municipality or another and why I live in Estonia depends on the symbiosis of the obligations and opportunities offered by the state. The municipality is a small part of it. When we talk about why people go away, they mostly go away because they have bread on the table and they don't have to worry about whether a child can go to school, whether he is wearing clothes, and whether he is full. If we cannot offer it in Estonia, it is also very difficult to ask whether local governments can carry out their tasks. After all, they do not have people to help with these tasks. We call on the government to take some time off and still fulfil the promise made here in the spring in front of the Riigikogu that by the end of August the Riigikogu will be presented with drafts on revenue base and tasks. Of course, it would be ideal if we started this package as the Riigikogu ourselves, but we know that the government would run over it on a road roll. In the beginning, the local government leaders went along with this topic quite easily. But the problem is that the local government leaders themselves will also be disappointed. In the Southern Lehe last week, Kalev Härk, Head of Valgamaa Self-government, said that the current administrative-territorial reform will remain cosmetic and internal inequalities will be preserved if no additional money is found in local budgets to carry out tasks. If we also disappoint local government leaders, this will cause disappointment to local people. Let's not let that happen! We are still moving in the direction of dealing with content rather than changing borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U79	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed with the negotiations, we need to pass a vote. The Estonian Centre Party Group has proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 25 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 3 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Let's move on with the negotiations. Mr Kiisler, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! There is no point in going through the whole debate that we have already been through when this law was passed, and doing so simply because one presidential candidate wants to put flies on the voters' heads. I'm just talking about a few keywords that have been mentioned here today. First of all, Veikko Luhalaid said very nicely that the law places the responsibility and responsibility of decision on the part of the municipalities. I would like to see the municipalities want to take on this responsibility and responsibility and not complain that there is a horrible story to be decided by themselves. This law leaves a great deal of opportunities: tensile centre-based merger or county-based merger, and it is also possible to simply collect a larger number of residents together with neighbours. It is also possible, in terms of content, to act in a very uniform way, but it is possible to leave very large decision-making opportunities and a great deal of autonomy to the local authorities joining today by means of the Accession Treaty. It's all left free. You decide and do what you think is best. I want to get rid of one of the wrong statements in the first report, as if a forced merger would cancel the agreements concluded in the Accession Treaty at a voluntary stage. It's not true, it was a false claim. Everyone can read about this subject from the law. So all this is going to be in the hands of the local governments. Of course, it may come back to the question of whether accession is needed at all. Indeed, there have been very different descriptions of the state of our municipalities. Some waitresses said that everything was very bad, marginalization was rampant, but then it was said that you didn't need to join, because everything is fine, you get along perfectly, people are happy and everything is fine. Which one's the point? Let's face it, there's a problem. As Rait Maruse rightly said, many municipalities today are unable to organise local life on their own. This is a situation contrary to the Constitution and the European Charter for Local Government. This has also been said in writing by experts from the Council of Europe. This view, that it is contrary to the European Charter for Local Government, is available in writing. There was a problem with the local government suddenly becoming too big. Veikko Luhalaid said that he was terrified about how the municipality of 1600 square kilometres would come in Estonia. The territory of Märjamaa is 800 square kilometres, with a relatively small population in Estonia. If Veikko Luhalai was referring to Pärnumaa, there is indeed talk of 1,600 square kilometres and the population of 70,000 people. It is not a very empty area of people; there is no way to call it that. But in comparison, the territory of Finland's largest municipality is over 17,000 square kilometres. So even if we had this 1,600 square kilometres of government, it would be more than ten times smaller than the largest municipality in Finland. In Paul Varul's presentation, he said that it was as if compulsory cooperation would be more appropriate for the state to impose on the local government than for accession. The European Charter for Local Government makes it clear that local government decision-makers must be directly elected. The principle of mandatory cooperation certainly violates this requirement. We know very well that if there are several municipalities, representatives elected by other citizens in other municipalities can impose decisions by means of certain agreements, but agreements are mandatory for those who have not chosen these decision-makers. This is a far greater violation than the fact that 5,000 people have to live in a municipality. So this argument cannot be accepted in any way. The last keyword is haste. I can't believe they can really talk that way around here. I am simply reminding you that there are 12 years of 12 years in Estonia! The law on the promotion of the merger of local government units, which has been applied a little more. This law has been amended several times, accession has been further encouraged, accession grants have been increased. Every time, all the political parties represented in Parliament have supported these changes, from which I can only conclude that all the political parties represented in Parliament consider that the municipalities should be larger, because if the ideal were a smaller municipality, why waste money on accession grants? Then, on the contrary, perhaps the division should be supported financially. No, all political parties believe that accession must be supported, so accession is a necessary action. Otherwise, it would not be supported. Yet, after all these 12 years, it is now said that things have been done in haste. Let us be honest, we all understand, the question is that if there was no forced merger within this law, many voluntary accession negotiations today would be slow and accession would not happen. You have to be honest with me. The former situation would then continue: peripheralisation would take place, the administrative capacity of municipalities would be limited and would be further reduced, everything would continue in the old way. Do we want everything to go on the same way? I'm sure I don't. IRL wants a change in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U81	Thank you. Kersti Sarapuu on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U82	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, It was very strange to hear from the representatives of the coalition partners that it is no longer necessary to deal with administrative reform in this form and to hear complaints that we have seen this as a very important issue. Why would I say that? Having also been one of the members of the Mailis Reps team, who have visited more than 200 local government leaders, I can say with full conviction that the first topic at these meetings was always administrative reform, and specifically administrative territorial reform, not administrative reform with its own content. Therefore, the Centre Party Group reiterates over and over again that the answers to the questions that we considered to be the most important in this law have not been received. These issues are the compulsory tasks of municipalities, their funding, the development of the rural entrepreneurship and living environment and the organisation of public administration at regional and regional level. These issues are only allowed to be regulated by the following draft laws and it has been clearly stated that no changes are expected to be made to the revenue base before 2018. Since there is no consensus on substantive issues within the government coalition, we have not seen the drafts giving rise to the reform in the Riigikogu. It is therefore impossible to assess today the consequences of such a mechanical administrative reform. The slogan that a larger municipality is better and more capable is no proof of why local governments should be joined in this way. This time, there is no logical justification for the attraction centres in the different regions around which the merger could take place. Experts have shown that the mechanical interconnection of municipalities without measures to develop rural areas will lead to even greater peripheralisation in many regions. That is exactly what I want to know: how can we avoid peripheralisation if we have large municipalities? The state reform promoted by the government last spring has only been reduced on a map to redeploy borders, i.e. an administrative-territorial reform. Without content, it does not improve the accessibility of services or the living environment in municipalities. It must be said that poor access to public services in particular has made it difficult for people to live in rural areas, be it public transport, postal services or road maintenance. The issue of the DMV has recently been particularly acutely raised, which I think is very much at odds with what we want to achieve with the reform of the state. Today's government is dealing with this kind of non-existent regional policy consolidation. The strong position of the Centre Party Group is that administrative reform must be given substance by the laws governing the functions and financing of local governments and supporting rural areas. We do not agree with the government's plan to implement forced integration as a matter of urgency; instead, we believe that it is precisely the development of entrepreneurship and the environment in rural areas that should be addressed. The State should ensure free public transport by county, available medical care and other public tasks. We believe that the first thing to do is to agree on the tasks and funding of local authorities at the legislative level. It should be recalled that since 2009, municipalities have lost over EUR 400 million over seven years because of the share of personal income tax they receive and the reduction in road maintenance resources. We hope that this law will return to the Riigikogu as a result of the judgment. We will then make substantial changes to the functioning of the municipality, to the income base and to the regional administration of the state! Today I can only agree with Mr Külliki's Hatter who said that if, as members of opposition parties, we had been involved in the work of the Administrative Reform Committee from the outset, the result would certainly have been better. We cannot support the mechanical and often illogical unification of local governments. Then let us change the law on administrative reform and adopt laws that give it substance! Confusion, ignorance and distrust of local governments must be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U83	Thank you. Ivari Padar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U84	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you for the very living debate that has been here today. I think that we, who have taken part in this debate and listened to it, have thought a lot more clearly. Thank you so much for that. At least from Estonia's recent history, we now know twice that administrative reform has been an element of the presidential election campaign. Remember, 15 years ago, the administrative reform at the time was basically why it flew away because it was decided that it would be more sensible not to reform the administration to catch the voters. In these elections too, it has now been placed on the table as an element. Let's look at the time that has passed since we passed this law here. It was June. I've said it myself, it was two siloes ago. What's happened in the meantime? I was asked on the first day of the autumn session of the Riigikogu, which is the biggest topic of the Riigikogu this winter. There cannot undoubtedly be a bigger and more important issue than all that relates to administrative reform, all that has been mentioned here, the 18 laws that must come to this law. Undoubtedly, this is the greatest task and the greatest work of our winter session. I hope that the government has worked hard enough to get these 18 draft laws here as soon as possible. In the meantime, the Committee on Rural Affairs held an extraordinary meeting during the summer. It cannot be said that this was directly related to the law on administrative reform, but it was very clearly linked to this whole issue. There was an issue like fear up here. People are really afraid of the uncertainty that will happen after the administrative reform is implemented in the way we have agreed here. The elements of this fear are all the details that clearly show that people are losing something at their fingertips, some kind of service, some kind of opportunity disappears from their reach. However, this withdrawal of service and opportunity is not rationally explained. It was about the DMV and the ability to take a driving test on the spot. I want to reiterate that if we carry on with the administrative reform and progress with the reform of the state, we must under no circumstances do so, because we would be seriously weakening most of the current county centres. This talk, such as when taking a driver's test, would have shown that the quality that is currently obtained in smaller places where this test can be taken would be somehow less convincing than that obtained either in Tartu or Tallinn. I would remind you that Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas passed the test in Tallinn about ten years ago, but Võrus still crashed. So the Committee on Rural Affairs has discussed this seriously, and I very much hope that in this context, however, the Ark will take sensible decisions. What else has made an eye out in this short time? I will see which municipalities will be formed on the basis of voluntary mergers. We see the emergence of municipalities that are not the most appropriate. We can see that this is the naked truth that somewhere there are emerging municipalities that are not viable. Once again, in this process, there is a socialist... Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U85	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U86	... and my deep conviction was that this thing should have actually started with a "rural centre" and two levels. So we could have gotten a better result, but it would have taken less time and less energy to steam. But we have adopted this law as it is. Mr Paul Varul, who was very honourable, also said here that we need to move on with this. There is a specific place where things need to be considered and analysed, that is what concerns forced integration. Whether the time between compulsory mergers and local elections is three months is enough to enable people preparing for elections to know who these elected people are and what new opportunities are. These are certainly things that need a serious discussion here in the Riigikogu. I thank you very much for raising these issues! They can be discussed, and we need to move on to this issue. It is clear that we are not going to go halfway, we must implement regional governance reform and take sensible steps forward with all that concerns state reform. However, this matter should also be viewed very clearly in a complex way, even in view of the fact that the 2017 budget is coming to an end. I do not quite know what is going to happen in the context of the 2017 budget with all the departments' sub-offices where they pull themselves together and where they change their working order. Good luck to all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U87	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. We will proceed with the negotiations of the members of the Riigikogu. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! This issue could of course be linked to the presidential elections, but this issue should have been discussed much, much earlier, after the law was adopted in haste before Midsummer Day. I share my thoughts with you from two positions. Firstly, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have seen this whole thing very closely. Secondly, I am a rebel from Tartu County, where four municipalities have dug this law into the Supreme Court. Indeed, at the last moment it turned out that Ida-Virumaa has one such municipality more, but the center of rebellion is actually in Tartu County, starting with Kambja, where there are only 2600 souls, and ending with Ülenurme, where there are nearly 9,000 souls and there is no concern for the fulfilment of this 5000 population criterion. By the way, the municipality is led by a member of the Prime Minister's Party. But that's it. What did I see on the committee? First of all, there was a long waiting period. The plans were that the text of the law would have come much earlier. Finally, when this text came out, I was overwhelmed by a lack of understanding, and then the hope that a faulty draft could be corrected came from numerous proposals and from them to cross-roads. I forgot political technology. Although Prime Minister Ansip was critical of the initiative of his then regional minister, his successor, Taavi Rõivas, was in command of our committee during the proceedings of the same man's draft. But as soon as it was over, he disappeared. He won't be there today. In the meantime, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs consulted with its Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues. I can tell you that their assessment of our draft just before the adoption of this law was devastating. I've talked about this before. So, dogmatic approach and exclusion of exceptions. The main expression for the examination of the proposed amendments was 'disregarding'. And, of course, a crazy rush. There's no black script, but the deadlines are very tight. One example: Division is prohibited after accession. 'As a signal, this would be very wrong,' said our honourable chairman of the Commission on Amendment 51, which proposed that a referendum be required to amend the accession agreement, the result of which is mandatory for the council. Mr Varul asked here today, on the floor, why we representatives of the people have accepted the dogmatic demand of 5 000 people. I say, the coalition has run over us on a roller coaster. The absurdity is, he's run over even his own. I would remind you that two former Pärnu County Elders, one member of the Reform Party and the other member of the IRL, proposed an amendment so that in the event of voluntary accession, the dogmatic limit of 5,000 souls should not be respected, 90% of this requirement could be met. They did not take it from their own minds, but represented the views of all the local government leaders of Pärnumaa, the parish council presidents, the parish elders and mayors. Like I said, the coalition ran over their own on the road. I was the one who voted in favour of this amendment, and many others did, too, but the coalition killed its own proposal. Former Prime Minister Ansip has made a very clear assessment of the administrative reform. Contrary to the claims of his regional minister, our parishes are not... Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U89	Thank you. There's no more calls. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs who took part in today's debate. I would also like to thank all active members of the Riigikogu. The debate on this item is closed and today's session is also closed. Closure of the sitting at 12.58 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Tanel and I are two people here who represent the last successful administrative reform. It was carried out by Karl XI and it was called a reduction. I remind you, Ignatsi Jaak was of the Puhja, and Hans, who wrote the weeping song, was the pastor of Kambiah. So, in short, there are traditions in our constituency. It is precisely from the point of view of these traditions that I would like to point out that there is an awfully important article in this evening's paper, which has been written by my colleague, Jüri Adams. I'm sorry it hasn't been referred to here. Its final part is most important, and it speaks of the fact that the uniting of municipalities and municipalities must be based, among other things, on spirit and culture. Kambja is Kambja, from Hans, Puhja is Puhja and there are other places, such as Otepää and others, which have not only demographic meaning, in the sense that how many people live there, but which is part of Estonia. I am saying that the emergence of some ten-thousand-dollar parishes so that the same culturally important little Kambja or Puhja disappears means that we are taking something out of our culture. We are already putting Grandma into the Estonian National Museum, which is a monument to the Soviet army! How far can we go in our own culture with denial of our territory? Paul Varus had the most talented boy in our class and has remained so. Thanks for the presentation. I'm proud to have been able to study with him. He drew attention to the most important problem. Who is the subject of a local government, is it a territory, is it people or territory and people together? The most familiar association between man and territory is, for example, the Mafia, right? It is a collective that operates in a certain territory under its control. When we have learned this, the following very serious question follows: is the Estonian state Do the municipalities really have any inalienable rights of their own? Let's leave the territory out. For example, is the same share of income tax that we keep for local governments their right under the Constitution, or is it our kindness when we give it to them? There is no objection in the Constitution today. However, the second aspect was just put forward by Paul. That's who and what the subject is. To this question, I think, there cannot be a purely political answer, and that answer cannot come from Toompea. Now the judges have the ball. Now we say: boys and girls, do as right and better, but let's decide once upon a time whether Estonia is one of the great Unitarian States or whether it is a county federation, about as Uluots taught in the famous book 'Estonian treaties with strangers in the XIII century'. By the way, a small detail: this autumn we have reached the point that the history of law in the Republic of Estonia is no longer taught. That's it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U91	You have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U92	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U93	Judicial review of constitutionality is usually carried out post factum, i.e. when the act is in force, but not preventively, abstractly, prospectively. Such preventive, predictable supervision is speculative. A state or a court can only decide if something has already happened, and then when people feel that their constitutional rights have been violated, the court can decide on a factual basis. It cannot do so on the basis of assertions, speculations, opinions and assessments. This is the meaning and content of our constitutional review. This should be adhered to. And in the end, the widespread notion of political veto should spread over and over again gives rise to fear.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U94	Dear waitress, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U95	This is not a good way. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U96	Thank you. On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U97	Thank you very much, dear waitress. Thank you very much to all those who ask! The time for questions and answers is up. We're going to the negotiations. I'm opening negotiations. First of all, I would like to ask the representatives of the political groups to come here. Does Peter Ernits represent the Central Party faction? No, I don't. Rait Maruste, Reform Party faction, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-15_U98	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Why is this topic being discussed here today, nine days before the Riigikogu elections? [[Interjections.]] I'm sorry, before the presidential election! There's probably a reason. It is not surprising that a presidential candidate spoke here today in front of this great auditorium. Other presidential candidates do not have the possibility to use such an auditorium. But then on, let's get to the point. The correctness of our thinking and the adequacy of our conclusions depend on the precise definition of terms, which ensures that we all talk about one thing. The key national issue we are discussing today is defined as 'Administrative reform'. The name of the administrative reform is also unfortunately called the law, although in fact we are talking about the reform of regional administration, and only two thirds of it. One third, Tallinn as a municipality, is completely excluded. You can always see the good and the bad in things. Today, for some reason, we've only seen the bad side of the whole thing, or we just want to see them. However, let us remember how the present situation has arisen. This situation, the structure or distribution of local governments, is largely from the Soviet village council system, with only minor changes. The village councils became parishes. This situation has lasted a quarter of a century. Our society has changed very, very much during this period and we must respond to these changes. Did they just plan this change out of the blue because they didn't want it yesterday, but we want it today? No, the basis for these changes, which have been proposed, was and is still a very comprehensive data set of scientists. I specifically mention Geomedia Rivo Noorkõiv and Georg Sootla from Tallinn University, as well as experts from the Ministry of Finance, etc. They have also carried out a very thorough analysis of this situation on the basis of the experience of other countries, and they have come to the conclusion that this 5000 population, which has been proposed as a reference, is the minimum size for the capacity of local authorities, which we expect to have a mass effect and be able to hire trained, experienced, skilled people with a sufficient field of work to cover, and all the functions of local government to be covered. The recommended orientation would perhaps be 10,000 to 11000, but this is all a matter of agreement. These data are not taken from the ceiling; they are derived from research surveys and recommendations. This situation has not only been assessed by politicians. The situation in the municipalities has also been assessed by the Auditor General. Remember, the Auditor General has appreciated how capable our local authorities are. It has found the capacity of local authorities to be about 80% weak and deficient. This situation has been assessed by the European Commission and has found that our local authorities, as they currently exist, need to be corrected. The Chancellor of Justice, Mr Teder, has also made a similar conclusion. This situation, which has been described, is itself unconstitutional because, in its current form, local authorities are unable to fulfil their constitutional tasks and to guarantee people the rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution, as they should and could be. Therefore, the aim of the reform, at least in part, is to eliminate this situation which is not in accordance with the Constitution and to correct it in a way that is more consistent with the spirit and the provision of the Constitution. Any reform will inevitably be an obstacle. People's expectations and rights have been violated by many of the reforms we have made: ownership reform, monetary reform, etc. It's inevitable. However, the aim of the reform should be to ensure public interest so that people's rights and freedoms are better protected. A lot has been said here, as if changing borders was against the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I promise to quote from the Constitution: 'The borders of local government units must not be changed without listening to the opinions of the respective municipalities. 'Even the requirement of 'law' is not in here, as Mr Varul claimed, simply listen to the opinion and make changes if they are deemed necessary. It's a government prerogative. If the Constitution contains such specific standards, they cannot be ignored. In addition, the local government, as such, remains, self-governance in its territory is not lost, but re-formed. Functions, operational bases and funding will remain. The Estonian Administrative Division Act, to which Mr Varul referred, will also remain in force. They don't disappear with one stone, they all stay, everything stays the same in that sense. Now let's go: who decides what? In a democratic society, will socio-economic and political decision-making be made by the elected representative body of the people, or will it be done by the court for us? I believe that the issues of such social policy and economic choices must be decided by the House of Representatives. Whether it does it well or badly or worse, it is a matter in itself, but it must remain within the remit of the House. Giving this court a ruling is not right, because we would go against the fundamental principles of the rule of law. What is the nature of judicial review of constitutionality? We're now applying for...
