ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 7th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U2	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, 41 On behalf of a member of the Riigikogu, I have a written request to express my mistrust to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. The government led by Taavi Rõivas has no reasonable tax and economic policy. As a result, the Estonian economy cannot be brought out of stagnation. Therefore, apart from being in a state of economic stagnation, we have a stagnation in power, as coalition partners themselves have openly called it. We have quite a number of very compelling reasons to express our mistrust. Unfortunately, I only have two minutes to introduce the call for distrust, so I have to make a choice. You can all read the full text of the claim on the Riigikogu website. It is certain that indecisiveness has led us to a situation in which the Riigikogu and, of course, the government are looking forward to several things, but there is no answer. I mention municipal reform or administrative reform. Local authorities are about to stop volunteering, not knowing what awaits them, what the revenue base will be and what the tasks will be. There is certainly also a problem of inaction in rural areas, because Estonian farmers have had many hard years in a row, but they have not received any help to survive the crisis. An important reason to distrust the Prime Minister is that the people of Estonia have constantly assessed the work of the Prime Minister as unsatisfactory, as confirmed by a large sample of opinion polls. As a result, Taavi Kõivas has completely lost the opposition's trust. We believe that he cannot control a government he owns, which is uncooperative due to a lack of leadership. 40 members of the Riigikogu have signed the motion of distrust; one has added its signature digitally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U3	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U4	On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I have the honour to hand over the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection. The draft specifies the procedures for the use of the proceeds from the auction and introduces a provision under which the holder of funds may enter into an administrative contract for the use of funds from emission allowance trading. A provision is also included in the Act under which a decision to recover the aid granted under the Air Protection in the atmosphere Act and the Air Protection Act in the event of the annulment of an application for aid granted under different trading systems is regarded as an enforceable document within the meaning of Article 2 (1) (21) of the Code of Enforcement Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U5	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U6	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and the Electronic Communications Act. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and related amendments to other laws. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester when these three draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Identity Documents Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the External Action Service Act and the Civil Service Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Jürgen Ligi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U7	I have adopted six draft laws and one request for distrust. All of them are treated in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 90 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, the Social Affairs Committee has proposed to remove the fifth item on the agenda of this week, second reading of the draft law amending the working conditions of workers posted to Estonia and other laws. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the agenda for the 7th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, there was no one against and one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U8	Inquiries. The first of these is Jaanus Karilaid, Kersti Sarapuu, Kadri Simson, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Enn Esemaa, Dmitri Dmitriev, Tarmo Tamm, Erki Savisaar, Jüri Ratas, Anneli Ott, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Peeter Ernits, Mikhail Korb and Märt Sults. On behalf of the heirs, Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, On 21 September, 17 Members really asked Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas to discuss a number of problems in public enterprises and problems in public procurement. We have noted that the Prime Minister did not respond adequately to the criticism of the National Audit Office when the National Audit Office published an audit of Estonian Air, where more than 80 million euro of taxpayers' money has been directed unreasonably and without following the principles. The Prime Minister did not react to the activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications when the contract was not executed. The contract has been concluded, commitments, timetables and responsibilities have been put in place, but it can be seen that the contract is still outstanding and the Prime Minister has not been interested in this issue again. The correspondence between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice has also been overlooked for a long time. A few years ago, the Minister of Finance pointed out that very large resources are moving opaquely in the country, without public procurement. On these issues, we have asked the Prime Minister five questions and we hope to get answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U10	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your inquiry on 21 September. But before I go to the answer to the question, let me react to the introductory statement by the questioners. In particular, you said that the Prime Minister has not adequately responded to the specific issues you addressed. If you recall this question, that is true, it has already been filed six weeks ago, then you will discover that it is predominantly the decisions of the former government. It seems a little strange to ask me for an adequate response to the decisions of the government before yesterday. But that's it. If you ask me a question, I will, of course, answer whenever the Government of the Republic made those decisions, even if these decisions have been made a long time ago. The first question: 'Please give an overview of how much transactions are made annually by ministries and their agencies and companies without an open offer! " This, to be said, is indeed a matter of the current government. However, the introductory part of the inquiry and the question raised do not, unfortunately, make it clear exactly what kind of overview is desired. The term "unopened tender" does not exist. Except in exceptional cases provided for in the Public Procurement Act or other legislation, all public authorities and companies which are subject to public procurement obligations must make their purchases by means of public procurement. All planned monitoring control reports are publicly available on the public procurement register's website on a systematic basis for years. Based on the results of the ex post verification, the Ministry of Finance considers that purchases are predominantly made through public procurement. In 2015, the monitoring revealed that among the 632 sampled procurements there were 20 which were not preceded by the required public procurement. Public procurement was generally not organised due to the ignorance or inexperience of contracting authorities. Let's take a look at the whole picture. A total of 10623 public procurements of nearly EUR 2.5 billion were carried out last year (it does not reflect the purchases below the threshold). We also have a table in which public procurement is divided by type of procedure, but it is very long. If you have a more detailed interest in this, we can send it to you. The second question: 'Who has responsibility for the bankruptcy of Estonian Air, where, with the approval of the government, the airline was supported by EUR 84.9 million against EU rules? " In my opinion, the decision of the then government, which helped to secure air routes, could not be fundamentally wrong. The Estonian state, which is on the verge of the European Union, must have direct links with the main destinations, which is essential for both the business and tourism sectors. The aviation market without the state's own airline does not offer in the long term the sustainable service that the Estonian state and economy need and that takes into account the travel needs of our people in terms of both flight times and destinations. Estonian Air, or even Estonia's own airline, had an economic impact in one year at the time, with different estimates of 0.5 to 1% of GDP, i.e. EUR 100 to 200 million per year. If we put these figures in a five-six-year perspective, we are talking about the size of half a billion to billion euros, which had a positive impact on the Estonian economy. So the Estonian state certainly benefited more from Estonian Air in its time than it had to invest in it. In retrospect, of course, it can be said that Tero Taskila's strategy was not correct. You could say that. It wasn't a success. Whether this strategy could have been prevented, it is very difficult for me to assess it from the current distance in time. When it comes to the decisions of the incumbent government on aviation, I say that we have had to react very quickly in this very difficult situation where the airline could no longer continue because the state aid had been declared illegal. We remember that this afternoon, when news came that Estonian Air could no longer fly, the flights continued with the new Estonian airline Nordica. On Friday last week, this company started working with a large European airline, a Polish state-owned LOT. I think it's very important that a big company like LOT believes in our company. It is also worth noting that September was the month when Nordica also made profits on a monthly basis. This is a very, very big thing in aviation in the first year of operation. Therefore, despite the bankruptcy or closure of Estonian Air, a major effort has been made to continue with a new airline. Question 3: 'The former Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has argued that the investment made in the icebreaker Botnica is a positive experience. What are the economics of the icebreaker over the last three years (size of the team, salaries, work to be done)? How can this positive experience be described today? 'The Government of the Republic decided in 2012 once again that it was the previous government to buy the icebreaker Botnica, because the last three winters had shown that Estonia's ports need an all-winter icebreak service. Due to the long distances between ports, two icebreakers were constantly needed in the Gulf of Finland. The ability of the Estonian icebreaker was limited to the 50-year-old icebreaker Tarmo. The port of Sillamäe had also been added to the list of ports to be served in winter, which had become one of the largest ports in Estonia in terms of the turnover of goods and the number of ships sailing there. In this knowledge, the icebreaker Botnica was bought at the time, with the aim of ensuring the activities of Estonian ports throughout the year. In addition, Botnica also has the ability to perform other work, offshore capacity, etc. The operating costs are again shown in the table that we are happy to pass on to you. For the sake of time savings, it makes no sense to read it here, but we are prepared to submit it in writing with all the data you have requested. Question 4: 'How do you comment on a letter sent by the Minister of Justice a few years ago to the Minister of Justice, which highlighted the problem of ignoring the idea of public procurement for years? Why go too lightly in the way of a negotiated tender with a announcement? 'The statistical data confirm exactly the opposite; the use of the negotiated procedure with publication of a contract notice is rather exceptional. The statistics for 2015 show that this procedure accounted for 0.7% of all public procurement and 4.6% of the financial volume of public procurement. We have more detailed statistics on this, too, in case you want to. Although this is an exceptional type of procedure, according to the Ministry of Finance, its use is justified in certain cases. For example, in cases where no tenders are submitted in the open procedure, as well as when it is difficult to make a technical specification of the procurement, it is, of course, possible that the estimated value of the procurement will be below the international threshold. As far as I know, the proposal of the Ministry of Finance referred to in the question is being dealt with in the Ministry of Justice. Question 5: '2014. In autumn 2008, a clear political commitment was published at the Government's Cabinet meeting to proceed with ferry procurement, ignoring the critical assessment of the process carried out by the Ministry of Finance's Public Procurement Monitoring Department. Why were warnings ignored, stating that four new ferry ships would not be ready by the deadline? Why was the extension of deadlines not considered? What mistakes are expected to be avoided in the future if a similar situation is to arise? ' It is a little unclear what the evaluation of the Ministry of Finance the members of the Riigikogu have in mind, which was allegedly ignored in the tender procedure. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance verified the selection of the negotiated procedure without prior publication in the course of the national supervision procedure and found that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has acted lawfully as a contracting authority in choosing the type of procurement. Väinamere Liinid OÜ challenged the decision of the Ministry of Finance in question, but the different courts clearly found the decision of the Ministry of Finance to be legitimate and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications acted correctly in choosing the type of tender procedure. During the procurement procedure, the information available at that time was taken into account. In the spring of this year, TS Ship Leaders thought it would be possible to complete the ships by the deadline. This was also considered real by the shipbuilding companies, which is why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications did not consider it necessary to postpone the start date of the public service contract at the time, two years ago. In retrospect, this process could certainly have been better planned and carried out. There have been very different reasons that the barges did not arrive in time. That the long-term carrier will end on 1 October 2016, we have already known since 2006. We also know who has been ministers throughout this period in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But I find it somewhat unfair to accuse ministers who have taken an active part in solving this problem. If anything, it would be more a matter that could have been dealt with earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U12	Questions for the Prime Minister. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U13	Thank you. Thanks to the waitress! Of course, there is a preliminary act on this issue. The cabinet expressed its political will to proceed with ferry procurement, but the Ministry of Finance later changed its position. I think you know what I'm talking about. But this, so the questions need to be made even more wooden and red. However, this issue of rafts sailing between the continent and islands is an important issue, if we are thinking precisely of policy planning capabilities. I'm interested in your conclusion as Prime Minister. Official documents show that as early as 2013, the state-owned company was officially told that these four new ferry ships would not be completed by the deadline, but the contract still provided for a deadline of 1 October 2016. It's already November, but there's no new ferry in sight, there's a month or two that goes until the first ship gets here. The contract will be broken before our eyes. What is the conclusion that could have been drawn differently? The data was already there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U14	Thank you. First of all, for 2013, I find it difficult to comment. My government started on 26 March 2014. With a month or two, it was clear to us that we wanted to create competition and create a situation where the state would not depend on one particular carrier forever. You well know that if you are addicted to one particular bidder, it gives him great power to ask for more and more subsidies every year or every period of the contract, etc. We wanted to get rid of this addiction, and it took place in spring 2014, when I was Prime Minister and Urve Palo was Minister of the Economy. I think we did the right thing. I think that even though the arrival of new ships has taken a little longer than we wanted, it was the acquisition of new ships and the creation of competition in order to understand which offer is the most advantageous, fundamentally correct choice. Could anything have been done differently? Sure. In retrospect, we know that the court has not decided this, but there is reason to believe that the members of the management board of the Port of Tallinn were more interested in filling their personal wallet than in the contract for ships. It is also clear that neither the plant located in Poland nor the factory located in Turkey have been able to meet the contractual obligations they have entered into vis-à-vis a company belonging to the Estonian state. Whether it would have been possible to write stronger contracts and, for example, to increase fines is very difficult to assess afterwards. But once again, since the competent law enforcement authorities have reason to believe that the members of the company's board of directors were not so much interested in the company's own personal well-being, it cannot be ruled out that this may have led to weaker contracts in some respects.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U15	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I have a question about planes. Nordic Aviation stopped working with Adria after, as far as I know, 55 million were fired up there. Now they're gonna fly the Poles and heat them up. Yeah, they've been in profit for a month, as you say, but millions are gone, and they're probably still going. When Estonian Air was held up, it had at least some patriotic taste that the symbol of freedom and whatever, but the money goes and goes into that northern hole in the northern lines. If you look at the names of the planes landing here in Tallinn, we can see that all the famous European airlines are flying here. Poles would probably be willing to fly here without supporting Nordica's parasite. What do you need him for anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U17	Thank you. Before the economic crisis, airlines like KLM, Czech Airlines and Lauda Air also flew to Tallinn, if I remember correctly, I think Austrian Airlines. There were a lot of companies that flew here and then, when the economic crisis came, the flights stopped. Then Estonian Air's market share exploded because it did not abandon Estonia as an airline in Tallinn. It was very important. He also took over a line that would otherwise not have been served. I think you will agree with me when I say that the more flights Estonia has, the better. We need to understand that the economic impact of air links and airlines is enormous. This is much higher than the profit or loss number of a particular company alone. Like Maris Lauri, when he was not yet a politician, he worked as an economic expert, up to 1% of GDP every year. I think we do not want to give up this 1%, and I think that, as traveling citizens too, we do not want fewer air connections between Tallinn and other cities. I believe that Estonia's own airline is justified precisely to ensure as many connections as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U18	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U19	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! As we know, the procurement of new barges failed, and in order not to leave the passengers unlucky, replacement barges had to be found. The replacement ferry contract was awarded through a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice. It was agreed on this road, I cannot say exactly, but I think that the use of millions and millions of euros. I find it most strange that these agreements were concluded at night. Should we really make agreements on behalf of the state at one o'clock at night, how many millions does one or the other service cost? Is this normal in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U20	Thank you. You know, if there are situations where a solution is urgently needed, then not only state officials, not only ministers and politicians, but also the leaders of state-owned companies, must work without looking at the clock. In my opinion, it is self-evident that if it is at stake whether or not the connection with Saaremaa and Hiiumaa is maintained, efforts must be made to preserve it. So I don't see any wonder at this nighttime. I am not familiar with all the details of these negotiations, I do not know whether the negotiations were actually held at night or whether this document was simply signed at night. You know, when I am away from Estonia, it may well be that a working document has been signed outside normal working hours. I've never done the Prime Minister's work from clock to clock, I've also signed my work documents several times this weekend. Digital signature allows it, and I don't see anything weird about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U21	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Minister Kristen Michal, who just entered the hall a few weeks ago, in answering repeated questions in this Question Time, assured us that these sanctions or fines, which result in the delay of new ferry ships, would cover all the costs that are being incurred to ensure that the traffic is over. Are you prepared to give the same bill or confirmation? When can we make some kind of conclusion about this? Are you putting your authority on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U23	Thank you. I can assure you that Kristen Michal is a man of his word. If he's told you that, it's probably true. If Kristen Michal has confirmed this to you, I don't think I should go over his words. Our cooperation has so far worked out that when he has said something, he is generally not wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U24	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! My experience as a Member of Parliament is one and a half years of circa. From the beginning, the extremely big and complicated process of fighting myself inside me was when I saw how money and unsuccessful projects were written off, how it was said that it failed, it went bankrupt, it spent too much, there were no purchases, etc. I don't understand how millions can just go up the chimney and nothing happens. But then I began to think quietly that it was a good thing to not have to be held accountable by the Prime Minister, not by the Minister, not by the heads of department, not by any real penalties for miscarriage and non-professional behaviour. Can you give an example when a person has actually been punished, not for losing his or her job, but for the sloppy handling of state property?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U26	Depends on what is meant by the sloppy handling of state assets, but if you take corrupt crimes, you can list them in a row. Yes, Estonia is, true, in terms of corruption, a country in the north rather than a country in Eastern Europe, you can say that. If you ask whether there have been people in Estonia who have been convicted of corruption, sloppy handling of state property or, for example, misappropriation, I will say that of course they do. The Prime Minister does not need to present this list; these cases have also been on the news several times.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U27	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Such negotiations in the late hours of the evening are certainly not a good example of the use of public money. Can you tell me how much contracts have been concluded through such negotiations, without procurement? We know that in this case alone, this amount is already over 10 million, which represents 20% of the total ferry procurement of the circa. Has it been a trend lately?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U29	Thank you. No, as I said, in fact, such procurements are clearly outnumbered. If we take this type of procedure you mentioned, the negotiated procedure with publication of a contract notice, then 78 out of 10600 public procurements have been made in this way and 112 million out of 2.4 billion went to them in round terms. That's the statistics. I will be happy to pass this on to your group, so you can read more about it yourself. As far as this night's signature is concerned, I honestly say that I do not know exactly whether the negotiations really lasted until late hours. This has to be asked by the parties involved themselves, but I would not rule out the possibility that negotiations were held, then the contract was long formalised, and this signature had to be given at night to ensure continuity of the connections. I really don't see anything specific about it. My workdays also last for a very long time, and I too have sometimes had to sign a few signatures for a long time after the 'traditional' end of the working day. I would even say that as Prime Minister, I do not have a traditional end of the day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U30	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! This is the time when many changes are taking place. As you can hear, in the government, these things are like that, and they're gonna go together and break up. If it happens that you suddenly have a ugly lot of free time, would it be possible for you to take the bull out of your own hands and show them how these things have to be done at the port so that these ferry ships can finally get here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U32	I didn't quite understand the question. Was that some kind of... All right! I think the Port of Tallinn has acquired a new capable leadership and council. I am even humanly slightly sorry to see how many of those people who took office quite recently have been attacked for the fact that these ships have been delayed. I think that the real responsibility lies with those companies in Poland and Turkey that have not fulfilled their contractual obligations towards the company that belongs to the Estonian state. There's no point in embellishing it, yes, they haven't filled it. At the moment, it seems to me that the management of the Port of Tallinn and TS Ships are working very hard to get these ships to Estonia. We can all follow the way the ship Leiger is heading towards Estonia through the Postimees website. Having seen this ship's images and having seen the specifications, parameters and parameters of this ship, I dare say that the excess will certainly improve compared to the current situation. I think the management of the Port of Tallinn has made a lot of efforts to ensure that the link between the islands and the mainland can continue in a better way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U33	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You, as Prime Minister, are looking at all these state companies, and you're looking at them, and you're looking at them, and you're looking at them, and you're looking at them. Please state what you think these most serious problems are, as well as a bit of generalisation, with all these state companies today, in 2016!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U35	Thank you. Despite the popularity of criticising companies belonging to the Estonian state, or at least the impression that it is popular to criticize, I do not make absolutely no accusations to you, it is not directly related to you, but it has somehow happened that they have been quite criticised, I dare say with all seriousness that most of these companies are well run and they are doing the very necessary work. But if you look at what could be done even better with Estonian state companies or state-owned companies, I think we could definitely privatise some of the state companies and, in the case of others, perhaps privatise a minority shareholding or include pension fund money, for example, investment by Estonian people. We have agreed that ministers will present a plan for which companies this could be considered, so that it can be discussed more widely, why not also in Parliament. The Minister of Economic Affairs has done this job to my knowledge, and now we're waiting for the Minister of Finance. When the Ministry of Finance gets this job done, I hope it can be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U36	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U37	Thank you for your answers to the Prime Minister. It has to be admitted that the content of the answers could not be satisfied, but the style of reply has improved. I'd like to congratulate the Prime Minister for his attitude. I don't know if there's been a change in the last 48 hours, but for style, in any case, plus points. But I would have expected greater insight and honesty about the ability that is today. If the opposition has more information about what is happening in society than the coalition, it is a sign that the coalition must change. The Free Party, the EKRE and the Centre Party warned you a year ago. On 15 February, we submitted an inquiry to Kristen Michal, who is now standing behind it. There we showed our concerns that the state would not be able to bring four new ferry ships on time. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure then denied the problem. February, March, April, May, the opposition all the time said that we need to read data and look at documents, that the opposition has information, that, just in case, we need to develop a back-up option, so we save taxpayers' money and respect voters, including the residents of Läänemaa, Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. With a big mouth, it was promised that from 1 October 2016 the service would get better, but it actually got worse. The giants, 10,000 people in the circuit, had to wait 24 days to get deeper than the trench. It cost, as I understand it, EUR 42000 from the government reserve fund. The Prime Minister was calmly watching you suffer for 24 days, but all right, let's make it 50 or 60 centimeters deeper so the ship can move. At the same time, the ferry was standing on the high ground pier. It shows the attitude, it shows that policy processes are not really managed or assessed adequately. I stress that this is a really serious signal when the opposition has more information. This is an example of the fact that some links between ministries and agencies that need to collect and analyse data and transmit them to the office are not working. The Prime Minister should be concerned as to why the state apparatus does not operate or provide the coalition with data in an operational manner. You gave an example of this Botnica icebreaker. I wasn't satisfied with that answer. 50 million euros, but you claim that you looked at the last three years, and that was the basis for a political decision. Such a thin layer of analysis cannot be the basis for a decision. From a machine as powerful as the government of the Republic would expect deeper reasoning. You claimed that the Väinameri Sea was shallow and such natural conditions suddenly arose, that it was a huge surprise, because it has never happened in the last 20 years. This argument, too, is not actually correct. Again, your political team will not provide you with the right data. Two years ago, the Minister of Finance sent a letter to the Minister of Justice reminding him that taxpayers' money had been spent opaquely. You've cleverly pointed out the percentage of the statistical fraction, but you didn't mention the financial volumes. Pretty clever. As far as political communication is concerned, of course, it was very right, but I would have expected you to produce a financial volume, not only 0.6% or 4.1%, but also the amount of money to be allocated without transparent public procurement. Those problems have piled up, yes. Can I have an extra two minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U38	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U39	I wouldn't take my predecessors so recklessly if I were you. You claimed that the decisions of the previous government had nothing to do with you. But as I understand it, the Reform Party has been in power for 18 years, so the decisions of the previous government are still in your hands. Do not so brutally distance yourself from them, nor is it beautiful in terms of political culture. I think you too must understand the decisions of the previous governments and their effects. However, this was rather a claim already made on political culture and all this. That's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U40	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U41	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! There is no way I can agree with the Prime Minister that a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice would be completely normal. After all, the reason for choosing this type of procedure was that it was not possible to get new roasts on the line in time and then it had to start quickly concluding agreements to buy replacement barges and also to buy them. A simple example that I remember: an old ferry was bought for about EUR 4 million, which I think was four times higher than the market price would have been. At the same time, a contract was concluded for one replacement ferry. TS Ships only wanted this ferry for four months, as far as I know, but since the owner didn't agree to it, the contract was signed for a full year. As I recall, it cost EUR 6.4 million. So on the one hand, money doesn't have a price, but on the other hand, we're arguing about small sums here. I think that the inefficiency of this ferry procurement has cost the Estonian taxpayer more than 10 million euros. Unlike the Prime Minister, however, I do not think that agreements should be made for millions on behalf of the state at night. Well, there's no reason why we should do this at night. Whether this agreement was signed digitally or not, it is not necessary to conclude tens of millions of contracts on behalf of taxpayers at night. I don't think this is the right way to make deals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U42	The members of the Riigikogu have no more desire to participate in the negotiations, but the Prime Minister does. Please, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U43	I want to clear up what Tarmo Tamm accused the government, not the government, but a subsidiary of a state company called TS Ships. I would point out that the negotiated procedure without publication of a contract notice is intended for such cases when it is very urgent. I think it was necessary to ensure quickly that transport could continue, in a situation where it was known that the final date of the contract would not be reached at the Turkish and Polish factories. Therefore, I do not see how it is possible to criticise the choice of such a procurement procedure. It was also a procurement procedure, it was not just a question. The procurement procedure was carried out in accordance with Estonian law and was wanted to resolve this situation quickly. I would be very surprised if you thought that it would still have been necessary to do this whole multi-month cadet of public procurement and people would not have travelled to Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. It doesn't make any sense at all. Now I'm going to answer Jaanus Karilaid. I named the sum when I answered Erki Savisaar's question. It is EUR 112533975. In total, there have been procurements for 2.44 billion. From here you can actually say that it is 4 to 5% in volume and 0 to 7% in financial terms. As for what claims were made to me, about half of them were probably written in advance on Jaanus Karilaidi, because we were not talking about low water levels this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U44	I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U45	The next question is submitted by members of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka, Kadri Simson, Heimar Lenk, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Oudekki Loone, Enn Esmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Erki Savisaar, Anneli Ott, Viktor Vassiliev, Peeter Ernits, Mikhail Korb and Martin Repinski. On behalf of the heirs Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U46	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Centre Party Group have indeed submitted an enquiry to Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. An inquiry concerns a regulation which imposes additional restrictions on farmers. This regulation treats both the combine and the large tractor as a special load. This means that when a harvester travels from one field to another, he should carry a pickup truck with a flasher and a large and wide warning label "Waste load." In agriculture, however, as you know, there are very difficult times. Instead of the government coming to the aid of farmers, on the contrary, there have been cases of police fines imposed on farmers because they do not comply with the requirements laid down in the regulation. It's caused resentment. Moreover, when farmers have used escort cars, they have also created traffic risks. In fact, fellow road users have not been able to take into account the fact that a combineer can travel on the road in a slightly different way than a normal passenger car. In this context, we have a number of questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. That's why we asked him here today. I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure will also read the questions and then answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U47	Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U48	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I imagine that answering this question will be the highlight of today's political life, but let's try anyway. Like I said, I'm gonna read the questions and then I'm gonna answer them. The first question: "Do you consider it reasonable to treat agricultural vehicles on the road as special or should their movements be treated separately? " I would point out that the two possible examples of road safety mentioned in the introduction to the inquiry primarily concern the quality of traffic training. It's going to be fixed. Now I'm gonna go to the main issue. From the very beginning, I say that regulations for special loads must also be modernised and made more precise. We intend to reduce red tape and to clarify the regulation of driving a combination of vehicles for reasons of legal clarity. The aim cannot be that every escort driver should have the right to drive a combination of vehicles. We are also reviewing the regulation on participation in traffic with larger agricultural vehicles. The amendments concern the marking of vehicles and the technical requirements for accompanying vehicles. Now I am talking more specifically about the requirements for special transport, which are intended to make traffic safer for fellow road users. The special transport requirements shall apply only if the dimensions of the vehicle or load are greater than those permitted to participate in traffic and they pose a risk to fellow road users. If the dimensions of the agricultural vehicle are within the permitted limits and this vehicle is safe, special transport requirements need not be complied with. The dimensional requirements for the vehicle or load and the design and construction of roads are closely linked. According to the Road Register, the average width of the state road is 7.1 metres, the width of the local road is 3.8 metres and the width of the local street is 5.9 metres. There are also roads along national routes with a total width of no more than four or five metres. Thus, a vehicle over three feet [3.5 m] wide occupys more than half the width of the road on the average state road, but more than that on the local road. Tractors and mobile machinery are driven by both main and secondary roads. A vehicle or load with larger dimensions than usual needs more space to participate in traffic; it often crosses both the lane and the part of the road intended for the driving direction. Therefore, such a vehicle or load in traffic does indeed pose a higher risk, regardless of the vehicle's intended use or technical characteristics. In particular, the excessive dimensions of the vehicle pose a risk to incoming road users who must be able to respond to the potential risk in good time. The main objective is to ensure the safety of road users. The requirements shall be applied as uniformly as possible in all sectors. Question 2: 'Agricultural enterprises are in a poor economic situation today and find the necessary workforce difficult to find, not to mention a suitably qualified workforce. In this context, how do you assess the need for the driver to have the right to drive a combination of vehicles? ' As I mentioned in the introduction, in our opinion, the purpose of the current regime cannot be that every escort driver has the right to drive a train. The right to drive a combination of vehicles is required only by the traffic controller accompanying the special carriage. If the driver does not perform the function of a traffic controller, he is not required to drive a combination of vehicles. This is a misinterpretation of the current regime. We have given the supervisory authority our interpretation of the current regulation. We will also prepare details at the Ministry on when the driver is required to drive a combination of vehicles. We are working to improve the economic environment, and this must be done constantly. For example, in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we consider policy making measures and investments that contribute to economic development. Among other things, I recently proposed to the Minister of Finance a significant increase in infrastructure investments to build the four-track highways of Tallinn, Tartu, Tallinn, Pärnu and Tallinn. The construction of four-track roads has a major socio-economic impact: road safety is increasing, as compared to the present one, with a radical improvement in traffic flow and the possibility of increasing traffic speeds, which brings the peripherals much closer to the attraction centres. The third question: 'The movement of tractors and combiners on the road seems to be over-regulated, so the police might also consider issuing a warning instead of a fine. Do you share the view that the rules governing the transport of agricultural vehicles should be relaxed? What changes are you planning to make? ' Reducing red tape is a general priority for this government, which is also being implemented when revising legislation on traffic. I have already spoken twice about the changes, I will not repeat them. The right relationship between rigour and safety must always be found in traffic. For road safety reasons, it has not been considered reasonable to distinguish vehicles from the area of use, as the risks are caused by higher dimensions than permitted for vehicles or cargoes. However, the current regulation takes account of the agricultural sector. For example, farmers will not be charged a special fee for exceeding their weight and dimensions. Derogations have also been introduced for the marking of vehicles. We are currently reviewing the requirements to allow more flexibility for larger-scale agricultural vehicles to participate in traffic, if possible. In particular, the amendments concern the marking of vehicles and the technical requirements for the transport vehicle. Question 4: How do you assess the need for campaigns to inform drivers of the specific features of the movement of agricultural vehicles and whether the Ministry is prepared to carry out such campaigns? ' We agree here that the safety of road users is the most important. At my request, the Road Administration, too, has increased by 2 million in 2016, i.e. almost 21%, the money allocated to the action to eradicate traffic-dangerous places, as it is the road administration's view that it can best achieve results. In order for road safety campaigns to meet their objectives, they must be visible and effective. Currently, the focus is on major problems: speeding, drink driving, improper use of security equipment. But I'll pass on your thought to the Road Administration. To conclude, the first task in the ministry is to cut red tape by reviewing the regulations on special loads concerning the driver's right to drive a combination of vehicles, the marking of agricultural vehicles and the requirements imposed on the carrier's car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U49	Questions for the Minister. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U50	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, You said that a vehicle with a width of 3.5 metres would cover more than half the average width of the country road. I wanted to ask you what figure this is, the average width of the country road. How wide is this mean width and how is it calculated?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U51	Thank you. My records come from the Road Administration, but this account is taken from the road register. According to the road register, I will say again, the average country road width is 7.1 metres, the width of the local road is 3.8 metres and the width of the local street is 5.9 metres.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U52	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U53	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. You touched the four-track path of Tartu and Tallinn. I don't think farmers are happy about this road, because with the tractor and the combine, it's all there is to it. But if the road is being designed, it is important to find ways for the farmer to safely get across that road and not to have to circle about tens of miles [20 km]. Now my question. It seems to me that farmers are sometimes harmed. If I'm thinking logically, I think the tea plow should be wider than one tractor. Shouldn't the tea plows that are currently driving snow drive in front of a car? Is it just an Estonian norm, or is it a European norm, that we still have to put a car in front of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U54	Thank you. You had a number of statements right away. This was a question such as the question in the Riigikogu is that there is a story first and then there will be a question. In contrast to you, I think that farmers, as well as amateur farmers, call them even pot farmers, are certainly happier when there are four paths on the roads instead of three. That we are, it seems, in agreement. Okay, good. Now just a few examples. It is common in Estonia, but also in other countries, to send vehicles and cargo vehicles with larger dimensions than permitted (for tractors and mobile machinery the width is up to three metres). For example, in Latvia, for equipment in the coupling of tractors and mobile machinery, an escort car is required if the width is more than four metres and is driven in the dark. This is required for low visibility, not required during the day. The celebration in Latvia is similar to our designation. In Finland, up to 3.5 metres in width and up to 25.25 metres in length with special cargo, the escort car is not required, with larger loads. For four metres wide and up to 30 metres long special cargo, a single escort car is required; if these dimensions are exceeded, more escort cars are required. So there are different practices in the countries, but the sources of greater danger are definitely marked. Let's look at our traffic statistics. We asked if we could separate these numbers. Since 2010, this is now only narrow-track traffic accidents involving 90 victims of tractors and mobile machinery, 110 people have been injured and four have been killed. But it's not very accurate statistics, the police or anyone could make it more accurate if they wanted to.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U55	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U56	Thank you. Thank you very much to the Minister. It's not that insignificant. I see farmers have been fined 15 times this year. But there's really room for negotiation. Whether it's the right to drive a combination of cars or not, it's either what you've pointed out, who can drive that escort car. It's a matter of interpretation. Plus the other things that concern the review of this whole regulation. I just have a request. It's autumn. We should be able to discuss this during the winter so that by spring we can improve what we can in this regulation. In any case, none of us are out there to reduce road safety. We have just had very dramatic traffic accidents before our eyes. That's clear. We also understand that machines are getting bigger, but the roads aren't getting bigger so fast. We really want to do this ourselves in this Riigikogu so that this can be done by spring. Do you have any hope that this will be over by spring?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U57	It's kind of a joke that if you don't take the winter cold off, it'll be springtime. I'm absolutely sure he will. We are actually in the middle of a debate. I must acknowledge Ivar Padari, who has also dealt with this in private. This topic is already in discussion between our house, i.e. the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Road Administration and farmers. The three topics I have listed are: the right to drive a train of escort drivers, the marking of agricultural vehicles and the requirements imposed on the escort car. These three issues are already being discussed and solutions are being sought. Of course, as you said, there will certainly not be compromises that would increase the risk of traffic, but a sensible solution will be sought.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U58	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Road safety is of course important, but we also need to compare ourselves with others. You didn't answer one of Tarmo's questions. In the meantime, winter has arrived unnoticed. Many large tractors are used in winter as snow - control machines, which also include large plows, often with a width of more than 3.5 metres. Is it foreseen that there should be a escort car in front of this plow? Secondly, you read the examples of your neighbors. If this limit is set at four metres in Latvia and Finland, why have you decided here in Estonia that this limit should be smaller, 3.5 metres? Why can't we have four meters too?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U60	There were several questions. I think that the marking of tractors and everything like this is still in accordance with the rules set out in the Traffic Act and the Ministerial Regulation on additional requirements for special and special transport safety. They can be read by anyone. Could these requirements be reviewed? I also said at the beginning that this is a debate on how to review them. As has been said, the debate is about whether the celebration should be changed. Whether to be the right to drive a train, I told you. This, in our opinion, maybe misinterpreted, should be interpreted differently, there should be no obligation to do so. Thirdly, these are the same requirements for the escort car. We've said we're ready to take a look at them. This debate is ongoing, and it will probably be clearer by spring. But you see, the way this debate is going depends very much on you, whether you will continue the same minister, or whether you will have to start this debate. Okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U61	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U62	The authors of the next inquiry are Krista Aru, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Ammas, Külmiki Kübarsepp, Andres Herkel and Jüri Adams. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U63	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Madam Minister! Good people's representatives! On 22 September, seven members of the Estonian Free Party submitted an inquiry to Minister of Education and Science Maris Lauri. The inquiry was submitted a few days after the meeting of the Scientific and Development Council, where it was discussed and decided that consolidation of research institutions and higher education institutions and the creation of synergies between the world of science and institutions would continue. In itself, it is probably right that a number of curricula should be reviewed and that what is taught in higher education should be linked to good cooperation. However, I am sure that our higher education institutions themselves will find and have already found a very good opportunity for cooperation. The Minister, after we had put forward this question, also in the Committee on Culture and in the press, stated that there was no rush to join, and he would certainly consider all the arguments in favour and against it very carefully. That's very nice. The restructuring or transformation of a research institution or a higher education institution can be a threat to society as a whole, not only to this one educational institution, but actually to our entire higher education system and, more broadly, to our entire education and cultural life. I am particularly concerned about the Institute of the Estonian Language. I think that very many in this Chamber of Riigikogu are concerned about the fate and future of the Institute of the Estonian Language. I am very sorry that there has been such talk in society, such as the fact that the Institute of Estonian Language does not want to join the University of Tartu at the moment, the University of Tartu is treated derogatoryly. That is certainly not the case. Our University of Tartu is good and deserves the best, but our Estonian language deserves the best. It is the only language that we should not save money, time or people in saving, storing and developing. I hope that the Minister will answer the questions we have put forward and both our concern about the Institute of the Estonian Language and the uncertainty about the future of the Tartu Observatory or the Tõravere Observatory, as well as the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics and other scientific institutions, will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U64	Maris Lauri, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the questions. The first question: 'What analyses do you rely on if you confirm that joining the Tartu Observatory and the Estonian Biocentre with the University of Tartu will improve the competitiveness and economic sustainability of these institutions? " Do these institutions have problems with research or economic performance? ' Since the TAN report was completed, the Ministry of Education and Research has prepared an analysis of all the recommendations of the TAN report. This analysis is publicly available and has been introduced by the representatives of the Ministry in the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. SWOT analyses have been drawn up on specific possible mergers, i.e. the strengths, weaknesses, threats and problems of a possible merger have been considered. This analysis has also been done on the merger of the Tartu Observatory and the Estonian Biocentre with the University of Tartu. These analyses have shown that mergers are justified and therefore the accession process has been launched. The reasons for the merger do not have to be negative, the interpretation by the heirs of the problem of research or economic failure. The reasons for accession may also be different. In joining the Tartu Observatory and the Estonian Biocentre with the University of Tartu, the aim is to better link research in research institutions with teaching and technology transfer activities in universities. This, in turn, will make it possible to increase the social and economic impact of research. More specifically, the integration of science and teaching in these institutions will make it possible to ensure, first, the sustainable development of scientific disciplines and the subsequent growth of researchers. Secondly, the merger allows the use of Tartu University contacts and networks to improve cooperation between science and entrepreneurship. Thirdly, there will be greater financial stability in the composition of the university, as there will be access to the University of Tartu Development Fund and there will be better opportunities for joint participation in various foreign projects. Both institutions have applied for and received merger support from ASTRA, an institutional development programme which also enhances the capacity of these institutions. Question 2: "What future is planned for the Institute for Health Development and the Institute for Chemical Physics and Biophysics? Do the Ministry have any substantive objections to the work of these people? ' As I pointed out earlier, there is no need for anything to be wrong with accession; rather, new opportunities and potential for development must be sought. No decisions have been taken about the Institute of Health Development and the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics. In particular, this is the case. The National Institute for Health Development is a research institution of the Ministry of Social Affairs. As far as I know, the Ministry of Social Affairs has launched an analysis of health institutions, and it is certainly not possible to shape a position before the end of this analysis. Both Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu have submitted a proposal for accession negotiations to the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics. Both universities have been negotiated, but concrete accession plans have not yet been reached. Yes, TAN recommended that these accession negotiations continue with universities, including the Ministry of Education and Research, and supported the accession of the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics to some universities. Question 3: 'What analyses and studies do you propose to join the Institute of Estonian Language with the University of Tartu? ' Apart from the TAN report and the analysis of the Ministry of Education and Research, in-depth SWOT analyses of the merger with the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn have been prepared. Question 4: 'Why is the Institute of the Estonian Language as the only scientific institution that has focused on the scientific study of our state and mother tongue and on the implementation work carried out on this basis in developing the Estonian language not worthy of the status of an independent state institution? 'I wouldn't use the expression 'not worthy'. There are certainly entities in several institutions that could deserve the status of an independent institution, but that does not mean that their independent status is the most appropriate or purposeful. I would also like to correct the argument that has come to light on the issue, as the Institute of Estonian Language is the only scientific institution that deals with the study of Estonian language. We must not forget our national university, the University of Tartu, as well as the Tallinn University of Estonia, not to mention other institutions. I find it wrong for anyone who even hints at these institutions or thinks one or the other is better than the other. On all sides, we also put other institutions on these three sides of the table, but these different roles do not necessarily have to be performed by different institutions. It cannot be said in exactly the same way that it should happen in a single institution. The way in which research related to Estonian should be organised requires consideration. I am of the opinion that we must constantly ask whether the way things have been organised so far or now is the best way in the future. This applies not only to the Institute of the Estonian Language, but also to other research institutions. It is natural and even mandatory that every once in a while it is reviewed how one thing or another is arranged. It's also about science. Question 5: "What should institutions that do not see sufficient social, scientific or economic justification when they join the university do not yet have to do to express their negative attitude, so that their views are also heard and taken into account by the Ministry of Education and Research and the Scientific and Development Council? " Everyone has the right to an opinion. The other part of this statement is that it must also be accepted if someone else has a different opinion. Opinions alone are not enough to make decisions; there is also a need for reasons, i.e. reasoned opinions. I personally very much like the reference by Tarmo Soomere, President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences to the fact that too many decisions are made on opinions, but they should be based on analyses, facts and reasoning. The decision-maker's role is to consider different reasoned opinions and then make a decision. It often happens that no one likes a particular decision, especially when possible choices are contradictory. In such a situation, respectful and peaceful behaviour between the various parties helps. It should be taken into account that, on a number of occasions, reasoned objections prevent possible problems. The final decision must also be clearly substantiated. It is precisely this principle that I have planned to follow, and I hope that all those affected by the merger decisions will follow the same principle. I will repeat what I have said before. Let us take it easy, respectfully listening to one another, and let us not rely on conjecture but on facts and clear reasoning. There is always an emotional aspect of the accession process. Connectables are rarely in agreement with unification, but this cannot be the only or the main argument on which decisions are based. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U66	Questions for the Minister. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I very much agree with you that emotions and opinions should not be the basis for decision-making, but should be analyses, SWOTs, as well as the opinions of expert committees. However, I ask about the Institute of the Estonian Language. We have the position of the Language Council, we have SWOT drawn up by the institution itself and we have SWOT prepared by the University of Tartu. What else are we missing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U68	Thanks for asking. Indeed, these materials are very diverse and conflict with each other. Before making a decision, it must be clear what the claims are based on. I want to get to know these materials thoroughly and calmly. I would certainly like to meet with their authors and discuss matters, as the decision-making process always goes. I certainly do not want to go through this decision-making process openly, because then emotions are too high and making the right decision is impossible or extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U69	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The TAN report also mentions the possible merger between the Estonian Academy of Arts and the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre. What views are there now, and what analyses and facts have you already encountered and seen?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U71	Thank you! In the current situation, such a merger is not planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U72	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U73	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! This famous so-called 'Ok' report I have read very carefully on quite a number of occasions. There's a lot of interesting and valuable ideas that I think are there. Will anything more come true than the merger of these bodies from this report?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U74	Thank you! These proposals will certainly be addressed. For example, funding issues and language issues are addressed. There was a proposal that there could be more foreign language learning, and this is covered by discussions, which have also reached the press. There were certainly many controversial and provocative proposals. Obviously, they were presented in part to give rise to discussions on these issues. Consequently, someone believes that these issues have been important and that the existing solution is not suitable for anyone. This means that we need to discuss these issues and move forward with them. I would certainly like to stress that the so-called 'Ok report' was a paper of thought; it was not meant as research. It was designed to highlight certain problems in the field of science and to encourage thinking. There were also some solutions proposed. Let's take a look at this side of the merger. Even these mergers, which are currently under discussion, are not what was proposed there, but this report made us think that suddenly we should do this. This also applies to a large number of other proposals. At the same time, a number of them have also been excluded; others will certainly be dealt with further.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U75	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I find it very sympathetic that you want to take a calm look at all the analyses and studies and then decide. I just want to ask you what this timeline is. If you look at all who have thought that the Institute of the Estonian Language could continue to be independent, it turns out that it is an awe-inspiring and respectful society. How do you have a timetable for this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U77	Thank you! I don't have a specific schedule. This is for a very simple reason: I have been busy with a lot of work. This is a complex area and requires a peaceful period of time to think. I'm a person who doesn't want to make a promise if I'm not sure I can do it. Before I make that decision, I will definitely negotiate with the parties. Like I said, I don't want this decision to be made in public. I will certainly also state the reasons for this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U78	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Can we generally conclude that our aim should be to connect where there is an obvious duplication and to avoid connecting where the functions are sufficiently different? I come specifically to the Institute of the Estonian Language and the University of Tartu. Should Estonian language management be the task of the University of Tartu? Today, it is regulated differently by the Language Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U80	Thanks for asking. Certainly, given Estonia's small size, it is important in many areas that we avoid duplication between different fields of higher education and research. However, it cannot be taken as "absolute." There are places where positive competition is beneficial. We certainly need to see whether research institutions that operate in one area have their own clear specificity and whether these specifics are complementary and how cooperation is best, whether when work is carried out in different institutions or when it is done in one institution. It cannot be ruled out that cooperation does not work for any reason, although it could work. This certainly depends on the area and how things are organised. As I said, on the Institute of the Estonian Language, I will give my opinion when I have designed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U81	Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Maris Lauri! I'm opening negotiations. Please, on behalf of Krista Aru's heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U82	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Thank you, Madam Minister, for the very clear, beautiful and firm responses. Honourable representatives of the people! The report by the Scientific and Development Council, the so-called 'Ok' report, encouraged us to think about the organisation of our research institutions and higher education institutions, but also about their cooperation with each other. This was very good because all these institutions and people who do not need to see their actions to be effective will inevitably always fall into a bit of a comfort zone. However, I would be very sorry if this report were to be limited to redeploying and merging a number of institutions without having a very clear position and understanding of what this better result will still be. I also call on the Ministry to think that perhaps it would be time for us to move towards consolidation and, looking at and comparing both higher education and research institutions, to think about a slightly different rate and even more. The most important task of the Estonian state, Estonian Riigikogu, Estonian government and Estonian people is to maintain Estonian language and culture. We have drawn up a number of road maps and infrastructure lists here and made a number of large infrastructure companies. Perhaps now, after 25 years, we would still have the right time to look at all those institutions that are involved in preserving, preserving, making available and transferring the collective memory that is important for Estonian national culture and Estonian language. Professor Marju Lauristin asked about a year ago whether we had once thought about law on important memory institutions or institutions. Maybe it's one of the possible teas. I don't know what to say today, but we haven't really thought about this proposal. Perhaps the right way is for our Estonian Academy of Sciences to be the respected institution that coordinates and, in a sense, directs national language policy. He could make sure that our collective cultural memory is kept and preserved and accessible. I am not saying that these are necessarily the right solutions. But we could step aside from this one path, which was proposed through one report, and think a little bit wider. It's our first duty. We should not think that someone wants to underestimate or disparage the University of Tartu or the University of Tallinn or any other university with such proposals. That's not the question. The question is that we still need to do all the restructuring on the basis that our research is of high quality, higher education is sustainable and competitive, and, most importantly, the national culture that has been created, protected and carried, will continue after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U83	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to participate in the negotiations. The minister doesn't either. I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U84	The next question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Külmiki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm, Ain Lutsepp, Andres Herkel and Andres Ammas. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U85	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, The engine of this inquiry, Külliiki Kübarsepp, is abroad and Artur Talvik has not reached the hall. But the problem is probably so important for all of us that we should all look for solutions to the situation that has unfortunately arisen in the Patarei fortress. It is probably not necessary to repeat that this is a building belonging to the European architectural heritage, which certainly has a role in our historical memory as a memorial to the victims of communism and Nazism. This is a large area and a great fortress in the rapidly developing and attractive Kalamaja region. A lot of tourists pass the castle every day on the way to the Seaplane Harbour, but unfortunately, this castle is a ghost castle. There could be more sights on this road, but there isn't. For more than ten years, Patarei's fortress has been under the management of the RKAS, whose role of the general meeting belongs to the Minister. During this period, the security situation has only deteriorated and, unfortunately, the object has become unattractive in the eyes of potential investors. It may be predicted that if things continue to evolve in the same way, in the next five years, he will become a ghost castle that no one will be interested in. The most screaming concern is probably the roof. Getting the roof on would stop the decay process. On the estimates available to us, the roof could cost about EUR 1.5 million. The Patarei Castle complex is located on a four-hectare area. Pretty close is the establishment of a detailed plan in the city of Tallinn to divide this area into five properties, one of which is very clearly meant for the new residential district. What will actually happen there is not clearly thought through either the owner's representative or the city. Those questions are in the air, unfortunately. The Kalaranna Patarei Foundation has also been established, which has taken the utmost care to find a solution to this situation. As a result, we have a number of questions for the Minister. How much investments has RKAS made over the past five years to maintain the value of Patarei's security? What is the Council's contribution here, and has this over-politicised Council been prudent and has it played its role? What are the plans for the IKAS to engage in a private initiative? And finally, what is the message from Europa Nostra to both the RKAS and, in fact, the Government of the Republic? How are the recommendations of experts to be taken into account and how can we escape the shame that Estonia has one of the most rapidly decomposed attractive buildings in the world's architectural heritage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U86	The question is answered by Arto Aas, Minister of Public Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U87	Good Riigikogu! Good heirs! In replying to one sentence, I would say that if this object didn't matter to the state, it would have been sold a long time ago. In fact, I hope you will understand from my answers that this object has been important to the country and that is why it has been maintained with taxpayers' money so far. But now I'm gonna answer the questions. The first question concerns the amount of investment made by the RAAS to preserve the value of this security and the level of economic costs. The answer is, in short, that a lot of expenditure has been incurred. Since 2012, EUR 340000 has been spent, including EUR 50000 for repairs (each year the roof, quays, wall building), technical maintenance, maintenance, welfare, security services have taken up nearly EUR 200000, management costs EUR 10000, etc. The five-year average cost amount is EUR 65000 per year. Let me remind you that the building was transferred as unnecessary assets to the state, and yet we have put money there for ten years, totalling nearly a million euros. The second question: 'the ICAS Council is one of the most politicised (five out of six members are active members of political parties). Does the Minister intend to change the composition of the Council in the near future? On what grounds does the Council share priority activities in developing state ownership and making it attractive? ' I wouldn't say that the ICAS Council is one of the most politicised. Indeed, there are members appointed by different political parties, but there has never been any active political activity there. I can assure you that. I myself have been on the ICAS Board for a few years and have now seen this work side by side in the role of the general meeting. There's never been a policy there. I can say that with a perfectly calm heart. It has been discussed and seen that the organisation is well run and that the money is used properly. Of course, the specificity of the RKAS compared to many other public limited companies is that it is not as free as others in its decisions and choices. In essence, the RKAS implements the policy that has been decided by the government during the preparation of the budget. At the table of the government, it is decided which objects are invested in and where higher costs are incurred. I am thinking, above all, of new investments, which will help implement these decisions. Of course, the property that they have in their hands will be taken care of, benevolently, there is no political choice. I'm sure you can't talk about a day's policy in the case of the RKAS, it's totally ridiculous. The RAKAS will carry out what the owner expects from the RKAS. Firstly, investments based on the decisions and sectoral priorities of the Government of the Republic. Secondly, repairs to maintain and improve the quality of existing buildings. Thirdly, valuing and selling unnecessary assets in order to increase public revenue. Other items are also financed through this sale. The third question: 'What is the position of the ICAS on the inclusion of private initiatives? The future of the Patarei fortress is in good hands if the state, local government, non-profit and private sector can cooperate to this end. What forms of cooperation do you see ahead? ' I fully agree with the need for cooperation between the various parties involved. The RKAS has certainly cooperated and will continue to do so in the future. For example, cooperation with NGO Sustainable Renovation Information Centre continues, which is a society that has grown out of the Estonian Heritage Protection Society and is involved in restoration and valorisation of waste material. This information centre uses a building outside the Patarei fortress, the so-called orchestra building. Negotiations are under way to extend the lease. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the state of the castle building limits its use, and so the RKAS is currently extending rental relationships with a view to the safety of people, only in buildings outside the castle building. An example of good cooperation with the private sector is this year's joint action with the city of Tallinn and the City Laboratory, which opened the seaside side of Patarei and built a light traffic road, or betapromenade. Very nice initiative and cooperation! In February and May this year, the Management Board of the RKAS met with the Heritage Society's representative and discussed in essence the future of Patarei's maritime fortress in order to formulate the conditions for sale and the contribution of a potential investor. As early as 2006, RKAS started valuing and tidying real estate in the Patarei and Seaplane Harbour area as part of the cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Culture. In 2007, the RKAS organised a competition for architecture, followed by the preparation of a detailed plan. In 2011, Tallinn City Council established a detailed plan for the area of Patarei and Seaplane Harbour. With regard to the maritime security of Patarei owned by the RKAS, the principles for the preservation of valuable buildings were defined, the detailed plan was designed to build a parking house and the non-value buildings to be wound up in the region were identified. On the basis of the detailed plan, land consolidation works were carried out after 2012 and 2013 and new properties were formed. Between 2013 and 2015, RKAS participated in the Kalaranna Street construction project with 50% funding from Tallinn City Government. This commitment was made by means of a detailed plan. The cost of Kalaranna Street was EUR 5 million. The construction of this street significantly improved the accessibility of the area and increased the value of real estate. This is one of the few places where the RKAS has helped to build city streets on a very large scale. This was done precisely with the idea that it is a prospective region that we want to value. Airport, Patarei and the whole neighborhood have also been important to the RKAS. This is a very large amount of money that, together with the city, has been spent or invested in the development of this region. We also look forward to the future with hope. The aim is to find a flexible and multifunctional use for a region that has been separated from public urban spaces for decades, which could be implemented in the near future. Maintaining this object must be acceptable to Estonian and European taxpayers. In 2013 the RKAS commissioned Martin Aunin, architect of the architectural design design, who worked out the solution in cooperation with Tallinn Cultural Heritage Board and Tallinn City Planning Agency, in order to value the sea fortress of Patarei and to determine the right to build. The process of preparing a new detailed plan was launched on the basis of the solution. After the establishment of the detailed plan, the Patarei naval fortress project is planned to be auctioned. Selling the complex into private hands is the fastest and best way to clean up a building complex that has been broken down for years and to use it in public urban spaces. Question 4: "What were Europa Nostra's messages to the RKAS? Do you intend, and how do you intend, to take into account the recommendations of the experts and stop Patarei from falling apart? " I also met representatives of Europa Nostra. In short, their concern was how to stop Patarei's sea fortress falling apart. Their point was that it should be the state. We have a different view. We have enough examples in Estonia that the private sector has been able to reconstruct and deploy outstanding monuments and objects (Rotermann Quarter, Tondi barracks, Keila-Joa castle and several manor buildings across Estonia). Not everything needs to be done by the state. If the detailed plan has agreed on the conditions to be met on the ground, and if there are agreements that the museum will be secured in the future in Patarei, then the state does not necessarily have to deal with all of this. Why don't you? Because it costs 80 million euros to clean up the battery in its entirety. If you find me 80 million euros, then please, let's do it. But I recall: Patarei was handed over because no national institution knew how it could be used. This building, the size of which is 34000 square metres, is not the best possible location for public authorities. I fully understand Europa Nostra's concerns about this object, but they do not offer money either. If, according to what was published in the media, I had the hope that gentlemen would come in with the money suitcase and say that we are going to do so, then in the first few minutes of the meeting, it became clear that they did not have any resources to do so. They advise, they can hook us up with investment banks. Well, that's great, but they don't have any resources of their own. At least that's the information they gave me. The last and fifth question: on what level have you worked with other ministries to develop plans for the development of a complex? It was once an idea to establish a new Estonian Academy of Arts there, several museums were interested. Has the establishment of another cultural and/or historical institution in the fortress been discussed? In itself, by introducing a new detailed plan, it is possible to create the prerequisites for flexible development which would make the complex a complete cultural hub. What are the results of the discussions? 'As I said earlier, the interest of public authorities in an object with significant investment needs is rather modest. The Ministry of Justice has been interested in the possible location of the Justice Museum. Several NGOs have been interested, but they do not have an understanding of how to ensure the safety of future visitors and the resources needed to use such a complex. As a development project, the maritime security of Patarei has been in the work of the RKAS since 2006, indeed, for ten years! just when, together with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Culture, the architectural competition of the Patarei and Seaplane Harbour area was planned and then the detailed plan was planned. The then Patarei Sea Fortress Architecture Competition and the detailed plan did not provide a good solution. Therefore, in 2012 RKAS decided to start looking for a new concept for the Patarei fortress, for which an architectural vision was commissioned. On the basis of this vision, the city of Tallinn was requested to initiate a detailed plan on the territory of Patarei fortress. The new detailed plan has now been underway for three years. It is planned to open the Patarei fortress area to the public and to build a new building in the future on the side of the Seaplane Harbour, in the neighbourhood of Patarei fortress, to link the old and new and to create a modern multifunctional environment. The detailed plan also provides for the possible protection of the internal courtyards of Patarei fortification with a glass roof, so that the courtyard can be used throughout the year. The detailed plan also provides for the preservation of part of Patarei's maritime fortress as authentic and to be used as a prison museum. Some 4300 square meters have been allocated for this. The nearby maritime museum will soon renovate the historic headquarters building as its new administrative building, and Patarei will create a well-organized area along the inner street. The detailed plan was already launched in 2013. In the meantime, there have been a number of procedures and public debates. The Telliskivi Society and the Estonian Heritage Society have submitted their views. The procedure and examination of these opinions are currently underway at the Harju County Government. The estimated establishment of the detailed plan will take place in the first half of next year. In order to further develop the idea of the Prison Museum (more than 4,000 square meters have been allocated to the prison), RKAS has started to acquire specialists together with heritage conservation specialists to identify potential museums. The idea of the museum needs a more detailed plan, but the goal is in sight. Let me sum up a long story. It's an important object. The country has preserved it and spent money on it, and it is doing so now. Different solutions have been sought. The state, let's be honest, has no place to take this investment. Schools, kindergartens and hospitals have had important objects, they also have real users. So if we really want this object to be repaired so that it doesn't decompose, it's safe for people to have a function on it, then we can use private investors. In cooperation with the city of Tallinn, this project has been carried out for quite a while, so it is likely that at some point a solution will be reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U88	Questions for the Minister. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. During the visit of Europa Nostra experts in September, Minister Arto Aas promised that a Commission would be set up to discuss the development of Patarei. So far, SA Kalaranna Patarei has received no invitation. Although there is a question here of what has been done and whether there have been results in these activities and discussions, I ask when this invitation can go on the road so that we can discuss these issues together.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U90	Thank you. I'm sure this invitation will go ahead, this task was agreed upon at the same meeting with the RKAS leaders. You even realize that this task of operational level is not exactly on the Minister's desk every day. I'm sure that invitation will come. I'll ask why it hasn't already come. I'm sure it'll come, because that's a promise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U91	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for these answers. I understand that in 2012, a sales process failed and that after that, the restrictions on heritage protection were removed or relaxed. Why? What consequences can this have? How do you feel about Europa Nostra's suspicion or fear that if this fort goes into full private hands, it may not be preserved in its most authentic form?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U93	Thank you. Indeed, I think it has been tried to sell this object before, but it has not succeeded because it needs large investments. There must be some sort of balance component or some way for an investor to earn his money back. The object itself is certainly very original and has its added value, but, as has been said, its repetition is incredibly expensive. That is why the possibility of building new dwellings there in some extent is envisaged and of cleaning up the area so that this project would have some profitability. I don't share these fears as if a private investor screwed up everything. I think it's a complex enough object, and there's not gonna be some random real estate investor who's used to making Gyproc houses into a field. It's a big and complicated object enough to find an able investor there, and I think there's gonna be an investor who can use that object with dignity. As I said, the detailed plan sets out the conditions. They are made with the city of Tallinn, but we cannot talk about any political collusion with the city of Tallinn, I don't know, because there has been no political agreement. There has been nothing political in ten years, but it has all taken place at expert level, when the city of Tallinn and the authorities for heritage conservation have been involved in this process. This has not been done in any hurry, no plans can be made in Tallinn in any hurry. I do trust the result that has been achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U94	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U95	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The chairman of the council of the RKAS has been in Taavi Kõiva and you have been yourself. You say this is a very important subject, but there is no policy made there. However, it turns out that you have not, after all, been able to keep it on a level worthy of a cultural and historical object that is very important to us. What role do you two play, for example, in the fact that Patarei is among the seven most endangered cultural monuments in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U96	Thank you. As I said, the RKAS has spent substantial sums of money to preserve this object. There has been no cheap sale to get rid of it under any circumstances, although there would have been an opportunity to sell this item at any time in 10 years without detailed planning, without restrictions, etc. This has not been done, but has been spent nearly a million euros to preserve this building, has been repaired from the roof, etc. In good faith, a cooperation agreement was concluded with an NGO that had to use this complex and hold it as long as possible. There were problems in this cooperation. However, a solution has been sought. It is desirable to establish a good detailed plan in cooperation with the city of Tallinn. It's taken some time, but it's probably a good thing to cook for a long time. So the RKAS and the State have made a firm contribution to preserving this value. It is not very reasonable to make large-scale investments in an object that does not have users. It does not make sense to make very massive investments there, which maybe in the opinion of the new owner or any user need or are not appropriate in the future. That is why it simply preserves what is existing. So enough has been done. I think that if there were more money put in there without real users in this complex, now the question would be different: why have you wasted money on an object that doesn't have users? So there's been an emergency, the heritage is preserved, the object is guarded and well-organized. I'm sure they've done enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U97	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U98	Good President! Good minister! Has the ICAS also negotiated concretely to find a solution? That's one side of the question. Secondly, as we know, the new detailed plan essentially provides for five plots of this historic territory. Can't there be a thing that forgets some of the obligations of a detailed plan and just builds a nice living or office building next to this complex, but the fortress is still in the same position?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U99	Thank you. As I said, the detailed plan has been made in cooperation with the city of Tallinn. The plan and conditions will be set by the city. This process can be controlled and guided by planning, building permits and permits. I believe there are enough mechanisms here to prevent any falsehood. But as has been said, this is a prospective region, perhaps one of the most desirable real estate development regions in Estonia, so there is a certain interest in it. As a result, there may also be a private investor willing to contribute. So there's no harm without good. RKAS will probably be able to carry out its tasks, and there will be a new owner who will restore the building and repair the surrounding area. The alternative, in my opinion, is to wait for the EUR 80 million available on the budget line. This is more than the state invests in any other matter per year, such as court buildings, rescue buildings, schools. That's a wild sum. We don't have that amount anywhere on the corner of the table to fix this complex without knowing who's moving in. Only here did we hear the criticisms of the National Audit Office and opponents of how the state's real estate is expensive to maintain, etc. Indeed, it is expensive and indeed it is quite several hundred million euros in the buildings where people work every day. I think these buildings, too, deserve to be repeated, and there must be an increase in expenditure. One example is that in the past, the cost of real estate was 1 euro per square metre. Show me a company, developer or individual who is able to develop, maintain and maintain real estate at a price of EUR 1 per square metre! This is impossible and the costs must increase. These costs have been hidden, somewhere are expected to know no wonder and there are repair debts. The problems have accumulated over the past few years. We don't have easy choices. If this object paid, I don't know, $5 million, the problem would definitely be smaller, but $80 million is a very large sum.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U100	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U101	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! You said well, it's expensive to keep state property. This became clear again today at the meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, where the activities of the RKAS were further analysed. RKAS is known to be a company for which the owner has foreseen a certain level of return, i.e. more than 6%. You said there was a million left for Patarei. Has this million been given by the state to the RKAS separately for Patarei, or has it come from the income earned by the RKAS from other premises?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U102	Thank you. That's a good question. To be honest, I don't even know the exact answer right now, but I can tell you so much that the country hasn't taken a cent out of the RKAS. It's not a money-making machine. Everything that has been earned has been invested back, and there will be more money from the state budget, because there are many objects and the order is very long. Since the RKAS must operate under market rules, the 6% return on equity, which is quite low, is indeed recorded. I think that there is no joke about the 6% return on equity in the rest of the real estate sector, in general there is still an increase in money. While the return on total capital is lower, yes, foreign capital is still very cheap. So it has been the principle that we use the RKAS, which should generally carry out market principles so that prices are transparent and understandable and that things have the right price. Sometimes prices are now higher than they used to be somewhere hidden.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U103	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We all know that cultural goods are once so small that a small player can do little. If you give an object to a private person, he may be able to keep one thing there, but its value for culture as a whole is a million times smaller than that for a whole object. If you involve the municipality, you will get more, the city and the country together will reach even more. If the real estate plan divides the object into five pieces and can be restored in original form, for example, one fifth, then the attractiveness of the object in the European context is about 75 times smaller and no tourists or anyone will still be able to deliver it. I'm curious how hard it's been trying to get to the cauldron base. It is a pan-Europeanly interesting and important object. Are we really looking at some private investors and some more? Have we not managed to go to European level and do we not dare to seek wider support?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U105	For ten years, this solution has been sought and there are nowhere to wait for these packages of money, but of course this building must be repaired as a whole. Just because five properties have been made doesn't mean that nobody divides Patarei into five pieces. No, definitely not, it's still one whole. But it's a very large area of land, there's plenty of space, there's also low-value buildings, there's free land, etc. Of course, maritime security must be restored as a whole. But there's no one waiting on a money ship anywhere who'd like to give us 80 million euros to fix this object. That's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U106	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U107	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! The condition of the battery has deteriorated from year to year, especially due to the failure of the RKAS. Is there a plan in case the fort cannot be sold for any reason in the next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U108	Thank you. No, it's not. The RKAS has done everything in its power to keep this building safe, and it will continue to do so. Large sums of money have been spent to preserve this building. If necessary, roof repairs will be carried out, have been carried out so far and will continue to be done. But, of course, this patching is a rather inefficient operation. In fact, we need a holistic solution, a clear vision of what will happen to this building. Well, that makes sense, or you're gonna fix the roof tonight and you're gonna tear it down in two years. It's not very rational. I hope that the detailed plan will set these conditions and obligations. The room is planned for the museum. That's how you do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U109	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The National Heritage Board has prohibited the construction of new buildings on outstanding monuments of the Estonian fortress architecture, such as Rakvere, Vastseliina and Kuressaare Castle. As regards the Vastseliina Castle, the Panel of Experts on Archaeological Monasteries has said that the Council does not support the construction of a new, artificial and landscape-dominant monument. Why, then, are new buildings allowed to be erected on a unique 19th - century fortress architecture monument to the Kalaranna Fort, or Patarei Castle?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U111	This is a question that concerns planning, what is promised and what is not. This is the question of who is responsible for the planning from the city of Tallinn. It understands that there is a balance point somewhere and that compromises need to be made. I expect the defenders of the monuments will understand that at some point something needs to be allowed somewhere. It's not like these new buildings aren't gonna come up in front of Patarei, or they're not gonna hide that view, not by the sea, are they, and there's a bitter construction going around anyway. The question is, in fact, a reasonable architectural solution, in reasonable proportions. There ain't gonna be no 20-story building. That is how this city can be developed, that there are certain compromises and certain points of balance. This equilibrium point, I read it here, has been searched for three years. One minute it could be over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U112	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U113	Thank you. Honorable Minister! I understand the difficulties in financing the Patarei Castle complex. But the last thing I ask is whether you, Mr Minister, could name more items belonging to the state, but where you think there is a need to work hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U114	Oh, my God! Well, there's a lot of objects. As has been said, the biggest investments made by the RKAS are all going through the government, they are being discussed together with the discussions on the state budget, and you have these documents on the table in Parliament. In addition, the Ministry of Culture has its own investment programme. More of these things are made out of euro money, then there are other developers. So there's a lot of real estate development in itself. If we compare the current situation with the situation in which the property held by the state was ten years ago, we will see that there has been a surge in the quality of office buildings, rescue buildings, schools and hospitals. Maybe every day you don't notice it, but it's worth looking at the situation of these buildings and the other buildings in the RKAS's hands earlier. So the wishes are always bigger. We have constantly improved this process, also on the basis of lessons learned. Today, the decision-making process is still multi-staged. First, design must be done, and only when it is done and it is clear what is done, how much something costs, etc., must you go to the budget to ask for money to build. This should keep costs at a reasonable level and make all construction activities more rational.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U115	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U116	Good President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Patarei prison or fort or fort (whatever we call it, culturally perhaps even the word 'prison' touches us the most) and its somewhat unsolvable situation describes stagnation, which still prevails in the current government. The stagnation has gone so far as to be in the face of ignorance. You don't know what to do and where to go. When the audit of the National Audit Office was introduced last week, it turned out that about a third of the items were 'dead'. Other, so-called active objects pay to keep these dead objects alive. It is sadly characteristic. On the other hand, it shows that the RKAS is just a public limited company with no plan to do with such 'dead' objects. The battery is an outstanding object where solutions can be found if you want to. It seems to me that here the RAAS has, in a sense, shown the behaviour of a lazy state enterprise. However, I did not get the impression from the Minister that it was the RKAS that had very strong plans or had people who were fighting for the matter and were implementing these plans. What I see today is that there are a number of civil activists who are standing up for this important cultural object and for fixing it. Another characteristic thing that emerged from this story was that if the RKAS has an object on Tallinn territory, it is important to remember the old gap between the two major parties, one in power in the country and the other in Tallinn. Because of this conflict, too, this Patarei complex is one of the victims. The minister rolled some things on the back of Tallinn, but if you ask Tallinn, they will naturally roll them on the back of the RKAS. But this kind of turning on each other's backs doesn't really take it any further. Now the plan has come for the historic territory to be divided into five plots. Maybe it's a good plan, but if you don't follow the rules for building a heritage conservation object, it's definitely not good. Our view is that the ICAS should take on horns more forcefully on this issue and make every effort to ensure that this culturally crucial object is preserved and settled, and that this whole problem is a very good and sensible and functional solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U117	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U118	Mr President! Speaking in a position, I will be brief. In answering one question, the Minister also addressed the question of the RKAS and its council, the councils of state companies at all, pointing out that the Council's politicalisation was referred to in the question of the sentence as if it had not been true. I totally believe that there is not so much politics in this council; it is still the Chamber of the Riigikogu to make politics. But the truth is definitely that the ICAS Council is purely politically drafted. Yes, a member of the Council yesterday, I understood, resigned, one is still resigning, but the fact that five of the six members of the Council are party representatives is a sign that such Soviet seats are not shared on the basis of competence, but rather party membership. This should definitely end. That's one comment. Second comment. This topic of the day has gone very far to the fact that the problem is with members of the Riigikogu in the councils of state companies. There is a member of the Riigikogu in the case of RKAS. In my opinion, we all need to be aware that this issue is much wider and that it stinks as long as it goes so far that the three political parties that belong to the government share these places among themselves. In terms of politicalisation, it does not matter whether it is members of the Riigikogu or simply members of the Soviets appointed by the party. It is completely incomprehensible to me why the government has not been able to deal with this problem in a year and a half and why this competence centre or nominating committee has not been established. Now we see that this is becoming the cause of the government's collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U119	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a word? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U120	A brief reply to this last speech. I very much agree that the procedure for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board must be reviewed, and I agree that the membership of a member of the Riigikogu in the Supervisory Board of the State Enterprise is certainly not a sin in itself. In my opinion, for the first time in all these years, the ICAS Council was made up of one person with architectural and planning experience. This person happens to be Yoko Alender, who happens to be a member of the Riigikogu. But now, in the middle of all this foam, in the middle of this populist campaign, it's obvious that he's not good enough, and he's leaving. Will there be more competence in this Council in future? I doubt it, I doubt it very much. But we have a deal, and, well, let's do it, we realize that the old order doesn't work, it's not right, and we're gonna change the order. But I do not agree with the fact that a member of the Riigikogu is incompetent and foolish as soon as he has received a mandate in this Chamber. Second, the nominating committee. The fact that we will have a transparent, clear and professional nominating system has actually been agreed in the government a long time ago. If I'm not mistaken, maybe in the summer. This bill is in the Ministry of Finance. I don't know why Sven Sester hasn't gotten any further with this bill. But this agreement is made, and I think it's a reasonable course. This is one of the proposals that Erkki Raasuke and others have made to the government. In my opinion, this is the right direction and it should be done. That would be a practical step. So less political foam and more practical steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U121	Thank you. We have finished dealing with today's fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U122	Let's keep going. The fifth question has been submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Ain Lutsepp and Artur Talvik. The inquiry is about the activities and development of the State Support Services Centre in the light of the objectives set out in the State Duties Analysis. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for Public Administration, Arto Asa. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Good representatives of the people, the few brave in this hall, as well as all those who listen elsewhere! The inquiry has been submitted by five members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party and concerns the State Support Services Centre. The questions of our inquiry are probably due to the philosophy of the state approach to the State Support Services Centre. Indeed, looking at the current momentum of action in this country, it is clear that there is strong consolidation, centralisation and concentration in many areas. I do not say at all that this is not very right in some sectors or sectors, but by bringing together institutions and people in the same centre, we still need to be sure that it does not weaken our social capital in any way, it does not reduce the number of people who are familiar with wage accounting, accounting and human resources in institutions located in different regions of Estonia. On the other hand, we should not very much bring together the number of people who feel the particularities of the institution and know what one or the other type of institution would need for wage or personnel accounting. Our fears may also arise from the fact that we do not know enough about the policies of the State Support Services Centre or about the near future. If we bring together a large part of public procurement in addition to salary, personnel and financial accounting, then it is clear that we are once again clearly conducting centralisation. Is it reasonable, and to what extent, is this not a threat to the regional policy that we consider to be very important? All of this has led us to have some questions for the Minister, namely five questions. We hope that he will answer them in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U124	Thank you. Please answer the question of the Minister of State Administration Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U125	I am happy to respond to an inquiry into the State Support Services Centre. We have already discussed these issues several times in this Chamber. The first question: 'What was the wage and operating costs of the State Support Services Centre in 2014 and 2015 and what was the state's savings in these cost items (operational and wage costs) due to the implementation of the Support Services Centre in 2014 and 2015? ' All figures are difficult to pass on orally, but let us say that labour costs were 2.5 million euros last year and management costs 346000 euros. The amounts themselves increased in comparison to 2014 and 2015 as RTK transferred functions. For example, in 2015 RTK took over the service of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and rural governments. Nevertheless, we can tell how much savings have been. In order to calculate the savings resulting from the consolidation of the accounting service, it is necessary to compare the labour and management costs of the institutions operated by RTK in 2014 and 2015. There's a lot of these facilities. We can say that the savings in labour costs were 7.1% and the savings in management costs 9.7% and the average number of employees decreased by 15%, while it was possible to pay employees a 9% higher remuneration. So there were savings. The second question: 'How many state-run institutions, for which the wage, financial and personnel accounts have been transferred to the State Support Services Centre, have they actually continued to employ their accountants, the head of staff? Why is that? What is the cause of the problem and what is the solution, because has a situation developed where several people work with the same document? ' Consolidation of accounting services in public authorities has taken place in two stages. First, according to the decision of the Government of the Republic of 29 December 2009, all ministries consolidated accounting services within their jurisdiction, forming a single accounting unit for the Ministry. In the course of this consolidation, all accounting staff who had worked in the government sector so far moved to the ministry's accounting unit. The exception was the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Finance does not have an overview of whether these institutions have made changes in their composition since the transfer of accounting functions. Based on the experience of centralising accounting services in other areas of government, there is no need for institutions to maintain accounting functions in their structure. The second stage was decided by the Government of the Republic on 28 May last year. This concerns the consolidation into RTK of the accounting units of all existing ministries. This change will allow further efficiency in the provision of accounting services. There have been no changes at this stage in the division of work between the central accounting unit and the serviced institution, so there is no need to carry out the accounting function within the public administration itself. In the field of human resources management, RTK provides personnel and salary accounting services to public authorities. In addition to accounting, human resources management functions include strategic planning of the human resources sector, management of employment relationships, training and development of staff, recruitment of staff and the development and implementation of remuneration systems. According to the agreed operational models, these human resources management functions are performed by the national authorities themselves, not all of them being performed by RTK. According to the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance in 2013, the human resources and salaries account for 33% of all human resources management functions. According to the Ministry of Finance, the existence of human resources managers and specialists is fully justified in the composition of the state institution. It's a matter of how many there must be. Based on the experience of Estonia and other countries, consolidation of accounting services allows significant savings compared to the decentralised model. In addition, there are information technology opportunities, such as the e-invoice processing environment and the state employee's self-service portal. Their use also ensures efficient service management, even if there are several actors involved in the process. The third question: 'What is (in addition to austerity) the state philosophy objective of the development of the State Support Services Centre? ' Let's just say that centralisation of support services makes it possible to improve their quality beyond more efficient organisation of services. Based on the assessment made by the National Audit Office, the quality of accounting services has improved as a result of consolidation. We can systematically monitor public authorities' satisfaction with accounting services. According to the results of the customer survey, the satisfaction of public authorities with the accounting service is very high, even on a 10-ball scale of up to 8.7 balls. Centralisation enables the state to save the development of the information systems necessary for the provision of accounting services, as there is no need to manage and develop several information systems. This arrangement of services makes it easier to implement financial reforms, such as the transition to accrual-based budgeting. Apart from the above, centralisation of services helps the state to implement regional policy, which was also one of the concerns of the questioner, since it is possible to move jobs related to the accounting service of state institutions located in Tallinn out of the capital area with a central accounting unit. As has been said here before, the RTC support units are located in Tartu and Viljandi. The agreement has been that the new jobs of this institution will be located and the number of jobs will increase at least half in Tartu and Viljandi. Perhaps in the future we should also consider making such a centre in Narva, for example, in Ida-Viru County. Why not? I'd be willing to deal with it. Question 4: "How has the conceptual model of the State Support Services Centre resolved the issue of the need to approach each institution individually? 'The organisation of support services shall be based on the specificities of the core activities of the institutions served by the RTK and shall, where appropriate, grant exemptions in the service delivery process. The exception to the provision of the service shall be agreed upon in a service agreement between RTK and the service provider. There is always an annex to the service contract concerning the operational models of the services. Based on the experience so far, it can be said that the organisation of accounting services does not differ significantly between public authorities. According to the Ministry of Finance, consolidation of accounting services does not reduce the institutional and social capital of society. The fifth and final question: 'Variously from other ministries, the number of employees in the administration of the Ministry of Finance (together with the State Support Services Centre and State Real Estate AS) has increased by 9% or 235 employees. How does this increase correspond to the overall national strategy for reducing the number of employees in the national sector? How and with what will centralisation contribute to increasing the diversity and flexibility of activities? ' Within the framework of a reduction in the volume of government, the so-called net change is accounted for, indicating a real decrease in the number of employees. The calculation shall be considered to be full-time equivalent. Changes in the number of employees will be reduced by "zero impact" changes, which are simply relocations of workers from one institution or from one administrative area to another. For example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has previously been moved to the administration of the Ministry of Justice over the Patent Office and the Competition Board. While such increases alter the number of administrative staff, there is no impact on the total number of central government staff. Similarly, "zero impact' is the relocations related to RTK, RKAS or IT service providers. Thus, in the first year of the initiative specifically to reduce the volume of government, the number of employees in the administration of the Ministry of Finance has decreased by 196 persons. If you look at a six months longer period, it has been down by even 300 people. Thus, significant savings have been achieved as a result of consolidation. The services provided by RTK and RKAS are primarily human resources and real estate support services. Rather, the quality of the service has been improved and savings and fair pricing of costs have been achieved. The provision of support services is certainly based on administrative and institutional needs, but diversity in the provision of these services is not an end in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U126	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. In my opinion, however, the risk of excessive centralisation here is high. Now, I'm gonna try to fit two slightly different questions in one minute. First of all, by scrapping the staff list, it seems to me that there is a question of gender balance. It is a very one-sex public institution. Can you give me a reason? The second issue is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its financial, personnel and salary accounting. We have embassies in different countries of the world where different currencies are used. That, too, is unified. Has this caused practical problems and problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U128	Thank you. As far as the gender issue is concerned, as a liberal person, I have a gender-neutral view of such problems, and there is no positive or negative discrimination against anyone. This may have been the case historically, but in today's changing world, circumstances can quickly turn the other way. No, we have not established and are not going to establish any gender quotas anywhere. I recall, among other things, one very important and surprising comment in our last year's salary analysis: at certain levels of leadership, the pay of female leaders was even higher. The general belief is that men earn more in Estonia than women. In the public sector, these scissors are considerably smaller, but at certain levels of management, even the result was that female people earn more. That's it. The State Department certainly has its own specialty. I can't say in detail whether and how many problems this has caused, but all problems can be solved when the attitude is in place. The head of RTK is very professional, he is always looking for compromises and solutions have been found. As has been said, a service agreement will be concluded with each sector. There are some nuances in each area and they have been taken into account. Feedback is positive. So, indeed, for support services, consolidation is a legitimate model of action; it is not worth worrying about here. This provides an opportunity to take these jobs outside of Tallinn as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U129	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U130	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! It is good to continue here on the subject of who makes how much money. A few weeks ago, an article was published in Postimees comparing the salaries of the staff of the Support Centre in Tallinn, Tartu and Viljandi. It turned out that the exact same amount of work in Tallinn gives much more pay than in Tartu and Viljandi. Maybe you happened to read? If so, how do you comment on this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U131	Thank you. Yes, I did. I had never been in contact with this issue before and I have not made these decisions. But in Estonia we have a so-called decentralised wage model in the authorities. Administrations and institutions can design their own remuneration policies. In some areas, employment in the region is rewarded, with extra money being paid, but in some places the region's so-called market price, its wage level, is used. This has also been done in RTK, because there are no very specific qualifications, accountants can be found anywhere. It is therefore based on the level of pay in the region, that has been the explanation. I have not intervened politically. You may wonder if it is the right model or not, but that is indeed the case now. As far as optimising costs is concerned, it is absolutely right if we are looking at the work of the head of the institution. From a regional policy point of view, we can argue whether we should pay more in some places or in the same way for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U132	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. I am coming to this aspect of regional policy. I believe you do not deny either that we cannot centralise all things indefinitely in this small country, because we are inevitably reducing and weakening the overall social capital, which is one of the great virtues of a strong society. But you gave hope that maybe you should look at RTK in the direction of Virumaa, for example. Maybe we could look at Põlvamaa instead. Do you have a more specific plan to strengthen this regional political aspect, or was it just a common sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U134	Thank you. I like the idea, and I'd be willing to plan it with the Ministry of Finance or the heads of institutions in my administration. After all, the general approach of the heads of institutions in Tallinn is that no one wants to leave the capital, it is difficult, the competence had to be lost. Indeed, this concern is serious. You may have built a professional team for ten years, and if you have to move then it could have a very bad effect on the atmosphere and performance of the organization. However, if planned in the long term, changes are possible. What else do they say? The availability of labour and the possibility of finding people with higher education in employment are very important. That is why, for example, the willingness to move to Tartu is greater, because there is still a university and it is a large enough city. Indeed, many state institutions in Tartu have their own units, such as RTK, Statistics Estonia and others. Statistics Estonia also says that they could move their jobs elsewhere, but they need mathematicians and statisticians with higher education, for example, and they do not find them everywhere, which is why their units are in Tartu and Viljandi. If I listen to this saying that there is a need for workers with strong real education, I feel that there should be a strong real education in Ida-Viru County. The cities are also quite large, where you will find statisticians, mathematicians, as well as accountants. So why not do something about Narva next? I like that idea. I don't know if I'm being given a chance to make this point happen, but it's beautiful. Maybe someone else will.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U135	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. We're done answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U136	Let's keep going. Today's sixth question has been submitted by Riigikogu members Olga Ivanova, Jüri Ratas, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Anneli Ott, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassiliev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Ernits, Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Laul, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Oudekki Loone, Dmitri Dmitrijev, Enn Eesmaa and Tarmo Tamm. The inquiry is about the working group dealing with the debts of housing associations and is presented to the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. I ask Olga Ivanova to speak on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U137	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. On behalf of the 20 central party members, I have the honour to present an inquiry into the work of the working group on housing associations' debts. As you know, on 3 June 2010, the Law amending the Law on district heating and social welfare was adopted, which introduced that the heat supply needed to heat the dwelling may be interrupted only from 1 October to 30 April after 90 days have elapsed since the notification of the debt sent by the thermal company and the consumer has not eliminated the fact that the heat supply was interrupted during that period. Unfortunately, this amendment has not served its purpose, and so many people had to survive in apartment buildings last winter without heating. Today, more than 100 apartment buildings have been unheated across Estonia, but fortunately, an agreement was reached in Kohtla-Järve with the VKG, which turned the heating on in these buildings. On 25 February this year, it was decided at the government meeting that the Minister of Business would set up a working group to analyse the possibilities of dealing with the debts of housing cooperatives and local authorities, which would propose changes in order to solve the problem. Your reply to the written question of 22 July to the member of the Riigikogu shows that the working group has only met once during the first five months. The meeting only clarified the nature and potential scope of the problem and the target groups that could be affected and discussed the legal and possible additional instruments that could be used to solve the problem. Unfortunately, solutions are fast, because otherwise the government will have to reconfirm the fact that people are without heat in the winter. In this regard, we have a number of questions for you. More than seven months have passed since the task of setting up a working group. What's gotten better with this time for people living in houses where the heat's shut down? As I said in my question, some of the problem has been solved in Kohtla-Järve at the moment, but this is temporary and only due to the fact that VKG Heat has come in and prepared payment schedules, but this problem has not disappeared anywhere. What changes in legislation does the working group propose in order to avoid the future injustice of people who are properly fulfilling their obligations? The Chancellor of Justice's Annual Review also mentions the problem of non-heated apartment buildings. The Chancellor of Justice acknowledges that a situation in which the legal solutions do not work in practice cannot be seen by the legislator or the government inaction. People have the right to demand 'tool' that doesn't exist on paper, but can actually be used. What do you think are the 'tools' that people living in unheated apartment buildings can use to solve the problem today? In his annual report, the Chancellor of Justice also sees the implementation of the programme of state-owned buildings as a solution to the problem of non-heated houses. How far away is this project, and when will the first state rental buildings and which municipalities rise? The state budget debate is currently underway. What amount is foreseen for the next year for the implementation of the project for state-owned buildings? We are waiting for answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U138	Thank you. I ask for an inquiry to be answered by Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U139	I will answer the questions that have been asked, and I am quite glad to have the opportunity to present this rather urgent issue here before you, because the weather has become cold once again. The first question: 'It has been seven months since we received the task of setting up a task force. What's gotten better with this time for people living in houses where the heat's shut down? " This is a problem of the debts of housing associations. In the meantime, an extreme measure was reached, i.e. the interruption of heat supply. In this situation, it is important to do everything in the first place to restore the heat supply. Very much has been done for this during the summer and the heat supply has now been restored. The following is a presentation of the activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and an overview of the work of the working group. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has dealt with a set of problems related to the interruption of heat supply and we have formed a working group that initially involved representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments and the Estonian Cities Association. The first meeting of the group took place on 26 April 2016. Following clarification of the problem, it was decided to involve representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance in the work of the group. The parties in the group have dealt with the problem. I must acknowledge the ministerial officials, but also the representatives of local governments and the association of housing associations for their contribution and for their very good cooperation. The fastest solution is the restoration of district heating in apartment buildings, which has now been done. A situation has been achieved today where district heating is back on in all buildings in the most critical region (this area was initially identified) i.e. Kohtla-Järve, Ahtme and Jõhvi. The estimated claim that there are still 100 apartment buildings without heating cannot, unfortunately, be considered to be serious. Everyone will certainly agree that consumers will have to pay for the service they have used. However, the debt problem has many facets and affects a number of target groups. The most important thing is to solve the problems of homeowners who have paid for heating. It is clearly unfair to require these other apartment owners to pay outstanding invoices. It is also unfair to impose on local authorities the burden of paying for heating. In the case of debts, it is most effective to address the prevention of problems and it is important to resolve them at the earliest possible stage. In doing so, all counterparties must cooperate as closely as possible with the network company, the local government, the housing association and the individual, i.e. the end user of the service. There are legal solutions for this. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has contributed to its activities by informing the parties about existing solutions and encouraging them to cooperate. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has sent letters to network companies, local authorities and housing associations calling for this problem to be resolved and dealt with immediately if the problem arises. They draw attention to the need for active cooperation in dealing with debtors with the chairmen of network companies, local authorities and housing associations. The second question: 'Which laws are proposed by the working group to avoid this unfair situation, where people who properly perform their duties suffer, in the future? ' It is important to realise that the problem is complicated and does not have one quick solution that can be achieved by amending one or the other legislation. It is necessary to adopt a fundamental decision to organise housing policy in such a way as to guarantee basic living conditions for all people living in Estonia and to ensure the functioning of vital services. Where the market is not functioning, the local authority must help. The state must provide both a legal framework that works in practice and, where necessary, financial resources to improve living conditions. We have the funds thanks to a reconstruction support measure that can be applied for by both housing associations and local authorities. Local authorities also receive support for dismantling housing funds that have fallen out of use. The problem of local authorities is often a matter of ownership, for which a legal framework is already in place, but it does not work in all regions. A comparative legal analysis will be completed by the end of this year, and then we will be able to put forward concrete proposals and introduce them to the public. The following is an explanation of what the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has done to solve the problem. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has submitted a legislative amendment on the interruption of heat supply, which significantly improves the situation of consumers, as it essentially aims to protect people from switching off district heating in the coldest and most intensive heating period. True, it doesn't solve the problem entirely. If the building management company again incurs large debts, the company has the right to limit the provision of the service, but from 1 October to 30 April this procedure is as follows. Once the consumer has received the debit note, it must have been 90 days (previously seven days' notice). If the circumstances underlying the interruption of heat supply have not been remedied within that period, the undertaking shall have the right to restrict the provision of the service. As feedback from heat companies has revealed that housing associations usually pay for services owed during the heating period during the summer, during the non-heat period, the Ministry has included 264 options to divide the sale price of district heating into two components in the draft law amending the Law on district heating sent to the Riigikogu for processing on 13 June. This allows heating costs to be spread over the whole calendar year. In the case of a two-component price, the fixed costs for the production and distribution of heat (these are investment costs, operating costs, etc.) and variable costs for the production and distribution of heat (e.g. fuel, electricity, etc.) shall be allocated separately to prices. Thus, the consumer would pay a lower amount during the heating period and would cover the costs of using district heating systems during low energy consumption. Currently, heat companies typically use a one-component, or megawatt-hour based price. The Minister of Justice also sent it on 25 October. a an understanding of how to solve the debt problem, where he pointed out some measures of a particularly disciplined nature. The Minister of Justice suggested that the court should be given the possibility of exempting housing associations or housing owners from the obligation to pay state fees in the case of actions brought against the debtor owner of the dwelling. In addition, the court could be able to exempt the building association or the housing owners' cooperative from the obligation to pay the temporary manager's remuneration in advance if they wish to initiate bankruptcy proceedings against a long-term debtor. As insolvency practitioners have the right to be remunerated for their work, additional possibilities for paying them must also be found in the state budget. The Minister of Justice also offered to reduce the rate of default for vital activities (e.g. thermal energy, public water supply, sewerage, gas, electricity) and to provide for a limitation that, in the case of a housing association or a co-operative of apartment owners, the principal debt should be first covered in the case of incomplete payment, then expenses and, at the end of all, interest, including interest. The Minister has also announced the possibility that the municipality will buy out the properties of the apartment. He has offered expropriation and assistance in the purchase of a new place of residence and the establishment of a support mechanism for resettlement. According to the Ministry of Justice, the obligation to pay for the vital benefits consumed in a troubled house could, under certain conditions, also be transferred to the local government, to the extent that the obligation for non-deemed owners of apartments in the current month is met. We considered these proposals, but we do not think it right that the local authority should play the role of creditor, nor should the local authority take the role of bailiff or incaster in solving the debt problem. The role of local government is primarily to ensure the functioning of vital services and the organisation of residential and public utility services. The above proposals have been discussed and the study referred to above will also assess their potential for implementation as well as their potential effectiveness. Disciplinary measures could be implemented in practice in areas with active markets, while in Ida-Virumaa, for example, which is the main problem area to decide on this issue, the problem is more complex and more extensive, and it is very difficult to solve with such somewhat cosmetic solutions. Thus, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has developed support measures for the reconstruction of apartment buildings, as well as for the dismantling of an abandoned housing fund. They have been successfully used and it is a pleasure to note that there have also been applicants in smaller settlements. This confirms that life is not only in Tallinn, but also in Lääne-Virumaa and Põlvamaa municipalities and homeowners improve their real estate and invest in their living environment. The main obstacle is, of course, those who own only formally and do not actually fulfil their daily obligations as owners. This problem is primarily faced by those local authorities from which very extensive emigration has taken place. Therefore, neither the housing association nor the local government can solve the problems as these owners cannot be reached. In the context of the ownership issue, discussions have found that it is necessary to order this comparative legal study referred to and to identify possible solutions specifically for this type of apartment buildings. This comparative study has been commissioned, its results will come in early December and the solution proposals will also be developed in December. The third question: 'The problem of non-heated apartment buildings is also mentioned in the Annual Review of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice acknowledges that a situation in which the solutions provided for in the legislation do not work in practice cannot be seen inaction by the legislator or the government. People have the right to demand 'tool' that doesn't exist on paper, but can actually be used. What do you think are the 'tools' that people living in unheated apartment buildings can use to solve the problem today? " In his letter of 17 February, the Chancellor of Justice referred to the need to make full use of all existing possibilities to pay debts and only then examine the possibility of amending the law. In accordance with this principle, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has turned to heat, gas and electricity companies, housing associations and local authorities. In turn, the Ministry explained the rights and obligations of companies, housing associations and local governments in dealing with debts. At the same time, we gave an overview of the options for dealing with debts. The Ministry also asked heat, gas and electricity companies to provide data on the interruptions in heat, gas or electricity supply due to debts and debts. According to the information submitted, the point of the problem, as referred to above, is located mainly in Ida-Virumaa, namely in the Ahtme, Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve interconnector areas. On the basis of the data received, the Ministry focused its attention in particular on the area where the problem is most pressing. We fully understand that the most important thing is to provide heating for the population. As a result of the cooperation between local governments, heat companies, housing associations and the Ministry, the summer debt of EUR 116000 in the region had remained at EUR 13000 as of 1 November, while the heat supply has been restored to the current debtors, with the majority of homeowners now receiving district heating. This shows that in many cases the problem is not so much the lack of tools, but above all the uncertainty of the parties about their ability to deal with debts at all. At the same time, it is not right that debts are paid by other, taxable members of the housing association, nor are they paid by means of state income subsidies. At one point, then, we are in a situation where the need for income support exceeds capacity or where tax-intensive residents also decide not to pay their bills, which in turn leads to an escalation of the crisis. As the problem is serious and can escalate, we believe that a crisis plan needs to be developed to enable the problem to be resolved on a lasting basis. The target group of honest and tax-intensive homeowners in particular needs to be addressed. These people want to live in the region because they have a job, a home and a community there, and they also have an emotional connection with the region. The fact that the demographic situation is largely the cause of the problem has been highlighted. The state or local government cannot spread their hands and convey a message, as if it were rational for everyone to move away from areas where there has been a great exodus. Unfortunately, I have to admit that this is the message that many interest groups and property developers often take part in housing policy discussions. In a situation where residents wish to continue living in a settlement, consume local services and create added value and the potential for their descendants to live in the same region in the future, the prerequisites for the survival of an existing housing fund and for the functioning of vital services must be created. Can I get more time so I can answer question four?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U140	Dear Minister, You will have the opportunity to continue answering the questioning if you have been asked questions from the floor. And there are questions. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U141	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have a very specific question. Did I get it right that this working group, which was so much hoped for last year and which had to solve this problem, has only come together once, and then it was proposed that representatives of other ministries be invited to do so, but in fact there were no more meetings in this working group? Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U142	Thank you. One of the working methods of this working group is indeed a combination, but it is often not the most effective form of work. During the time spent together, a work plan was put together. The fact that they were together followed by correspondence to gas, electricity and district heating companies. Later, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance were also involved and an enlarged meeting was held. In the same way, letters were sent to the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, local authorities. This was followed by a meeting of the working group, where it was considered that an analysis should be commissioned to indicate what longer-term solutions could be, both in legal terms and in substance, in terms of tools. After that, a study was commissioned. It was then decided to include the Ministry of the Interior, precisely with the aim of helping with the preparation of the crisis plan. It was introduced to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs and communicated with the Ministry of Justice. So, actually, quite a lot has been done, but the whole task force has physically met three times by now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U143	Thank you, Minister. In the context of the oral question, you will also be able to answer the fourth written question that has not been answered. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have two questions. You mentioned in your reply that the local government or anyone else should not play the collection company. Unfortunately, in the current situation, this collection company or the debt collector is NGO, a housing association. I don't think that's quite fair either. It doesn't work because housing companies don't have the capacity to find a Russian citizen from Russia and collect that debt from them. You mentioned the power companies. After all, people have a direct contract with them, or the building management company has the option of choosing whether to conclude direct contracts or a collective agreement. Why can't the owner be the one who collects the debt? Have you discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U145	Thank you. As you rightly mentioned, this problem is very multilayered. Therefore, solutions cannot only be legal or practical, but need such a good set in both respects. One problem is that only 4% of our housing fund is in the hands of local governments. We see houses where only a few apartments remain, and the people who live there are unable to pay for all the debts of this house. As a result, the building will be shut down from either an electric or a heat grid. Legal options are needed so that these people can be moved to a single building that can be maintained. At the same time, there is also a need for local authorities to develop areas where these people can be raised. One solution could be the rental home program. If a person has the opportunity to live in an apartment that he owns but where, for example, there is no heating, and there is a chance that the local government will offer him a dwelling, a rental space, but in a modern building where there is heating, I think that very many people would choose the other option. The problem now is that local authorities do not have this capacity because they do not have such a housing fund. At the same time, these people are in kind of a state of compulsion because in many of these houses, the apartment has no value whatsoever. This is the biggest problem, which is why it is very difficult for housing associations to initiate expropriation, because the expropriation process costs something in the same way, but there is no return from the disposal of such apartment property. In fact, there is also one such measure, which is very often not known: it is a right to waive ownership in favour of the State. Let's be honest, it's become more and more popular. At the moment, the ownership of apartments for the benefit of the state is abandoned three or four times a month, but this, again, in a way, aggravates this problem. There are individual apartments in the country that are located in houses where no system works. I therefore believe that legal solutions must be found for local authorities, which are in their toolbox and which they can actually use. Legal protection, the fact that a person is protected in the coldest 90 days, is very important. Since we are no longer in debt, we can say that this winter is more or less survived by these people. But if rental homes were to be created, the local government could offer these people dignified housing if necessary. I am taking this opportunity to say that, according to the state budget, 2.5 million euros of public money will be spent on the rental housing project for the coming year and that, as of the next year, it will be 5 million euros in the budget. But I will be happy to introduce the rental housing programme separately at the end of November, when this measure is fully completed. The focus of this, which is very important, is that the programme is primarily designed to develop entrepreneurship for attractive but lagging centres in the sense of the real estate market. This means that we are certainly not going to build houses instead of emptying houses, but this work is still taking place in cooperation with the local government where there are jobs, but there is no place to accommodate people. It is primarily intended to be such a measure. But, of course, there is also reconstruction support, which can be applied for and which also helps to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U146	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U147	Thank you. Madam Minister for Enterprise! You yourself said that the problems related to the debts of the housing associations in Ida-Virumaa are much more extensive and complex. This is partly due to the large number of apartments owned by third-country nationals, to a large extent by citizens of the Russian Federation. Unfortunately, we must recognise that, in the light of the private international law and the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on legal aid and legal relations in civil, family and criminal matters, our housing associations must go to the courts of the Russian Federation in order to recover debt from the debtor. Since this comparative legal study commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications concerns international nuances? Local authorities do not have sufficient capacity and do not always give up ownership for the benefit of the state, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U148	Thank you. We started by figuring out all over Estonia what the problem is. The result was that we understood that the point of the problem was in Ida-Virumaa, in particular in Ahtme, Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve. Of course, we have based ourselves on the legal problems of this particular region, including the international background of property. There are also presumably solutions that we can use to solve the problem in our own country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U149	Thank you. Dear Minister for Enterprise, It is very nice that this working group has been set up and is working. It might have been five years ago, but it was better late than never. You talk a lot about the meetings that this working group had when the Ministry of the Interior and other ministries visited you. But have you personally visited or have the people of this group visited local governments in Ida-Virumaa or some other county?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U150	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U151	Personally, I have not been anywhere on this particular subject. I've been on domestic visits, and my second visit was to Ida-Viru County. Since I've been working in Jõhvi for seven years, I'm relatively familiar with the specifics of this area. But there have been officials from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and so have the Chancellor of Justice and the people of his office. It was very often the case that we gave very practical input, what needs to be done, what opportunities are and where to start solving this problem. So the work has always been parallel to two things: one is that we need to find a long-term solution, and the second is that before the big winter came, we needed to get to the point of not having a house where the heat was turned off. We came out of this race victoriously, there are no houses now, and the debt has fallen from EUR 116000 to EUR 13000. So we achieved the short-term goal that the working group had set itself. But now we also need a long-term solution so that we know how to direct the processes that can happen again in the future so that we are not in the same position every year in winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U152	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Repinski to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Minister of Enterprise has rightly said today, more and as much cooperation as possible between the housing association and the service provider, the state and the municipality would be needed. It is certainly possible to resolve these cases; it is certainly possible for the state to appoint, for example, a lawyer to come and deal with these problems. But above all, we should solve this problem. Otherwise, I don't understand why we're sitting here at all, if instead of changing the laws, we're going to offer to cooperate more, to change something, and so on. This, of course, concerns more members of the Riigikogu, not the Minister. However, from the government's point of view, this amendment was rejected last year. I may be too naive, but if Michal said it would be done now, and next year there wouldn't be a problem, then I started to believe it. Today we see, yes, that the VKG came up and acted like a socially responsible company. It is, of course, very positive that we have such companies and that VKG behaves that way. But the state must, in my opinion, ensure that people do not need to think about what will happen next year and do not have to worry about whether there will be heating in their house next year or any other matter, such as electricity or water. It has to be natural. Let's look at the history of what's been done to find a solution. The Minister said that the law has been amended and amended in a positive direction for the consumer. Specifically, if I am not mistaken, Urmas Reinsalu dealt with it. The positivity of the legislative amendment is that it is not allowed to turn off central heating from apartment buildings in winter. To be honest, I don't see any positive movement in it. Yeah, the idea was good. I believe that the idea of the government and the Riigikogu at that time was that people would be warm all year round, or at least in winter, in the apartment, and the district heating could not be turned off. But in fact, the law was a bit wrong. Now the district heating will just be turned off in the summer, which is because 90 days will be announced in advance. Even if 190 days had to be announced in advance, it wouldn't change the outcome. It wouldn't change the fact that there are still apartments without district heating. Just because this is a mild solution this year does not mean that this problem will not occur next year. Why am I saying all this? I just really hope that, when we come back with this law, but we will definitely come back with it this winter, the Riigikogu will support it. I very much hope that it will be supported by more members of the Riigikogu than is currently sitting in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U154	Thank you. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U155	Ladies and gentlemen, It has to be acknowledged that this problem has not started last winter or this winter, but it has started to arise ten years ago. My good colleague, Valeri Korb, has raised this on several occasions in this Chamber. However, unfortunately or fortunately, we are only now hearing that both the Chancellor of Justice has dealt with this and that a working group has been set up with the Minister and at least a study is being commissioned. Perhaps this study will also provide quite a number of answers on what to do in a crisis situation. But it's true that this is a complex problem, and here you have to look at quite a few laws. In my opinion, we need to look at the district heating law, certainly the law on apartment ownership and the law on housing associations and the law on debt. I also stressed in my question that there is no understanding why only the housing association must be responsible for the debtors and will demand this debt from the debtors, and why we are not talking about the existence of a company that benefits and is much more capable than this poor NGO, a housing association from which half of the inhabitants have either moved to Russia or went to work in Finland and are not paying their bills. Why couldn't this beneficiary be a debt collector? Previously, this system worked, this law was amended, and now we are in a situation where the poor NGO, which aims to manage and maintain the conceptual parts of the housing company, is dealing with the global things that affect every resident's wallet. On the other hand, it's very difficult for an NGO to go to court. If we look from the perspective of Ida-Virumaa, we can see that there are quite a few apartments in every apartment building owned by Russian citizens. There was also a case in Kohtla-Järve that had been brought to court, but the action was not brought because it concerned a third-country national. The court said to go, I don't know, Kaliningrad or St Petersburg, to find this person and demand that the Russian court recover this debt. I think this is a really crazy situation. I'm sure the NGO won't be able to handle it. Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that, as you will remember, our good colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin has come up with a proposal, on quite a number of occasions, 13 times, for the summers of the poor that are in Narva-Jõesuu and cannot be sold to non-citizens to non-citizens, even though they have a permanent residence permit. Now we are in a situation where the whole city is struggling with half of the apartment owners being Russian citizens without a residence permit. Maybe they have a residence permit now, of course, because property exists. Thirdly, we must certainly talk about the Law of Obligations Act. There is currently no mechanism for housing cooperatives to influence debtors at all because they are not end-users, but they are intermediaries, and yet all collective responsibility remains on their shoulders. I think it is worth looking at the example of Kiviõli where private property was transferred against property: the person was offered a private dwelling in the house where the heating was in it, and compensation was also paid to adjust the dwelling for himself. This is certainly fairer than simply offering a rental dwelling to a person. I think it is possible to offer some kind of rental dwelling in most local governments. But who leaves behind his possessions, which can be inherited? Why would a person do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U156	Thank you. Valeri Korb, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U157	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for having been able to talk about this issue in this great Chamber today. In general, I am proud that I live in Estonia. Madam Secretary! We have such a large country that, frankly, ministers go so rarely to Ida-Virumaa, one time in two years I think there was a government meeting there. I asked you if you had personally spoken to the mayor or the chairman of the council in any local government. I understand that the most important things we are trying to solve in Tallinn, but I believe that this is the problem of Ida-Virumaa, it is like a business card today. Lazy people have only been journalists who have not written about this problem in Kohtla-Järve and other local governments that are in our region. But this is not a subject to be discussed here, but to go there and meet people who know the problem. You have to talk to them. I think it's very nice that a working group has been formed. Tomorrow we will see how the Riigikogu feels about our proposal for the government to discuss this issue. At the beginning of the year there were already once this large block of questions being discussed here. Then everyone said no, there's no need to go on with that. That question was thrown somewhere in the corner. But I think the task force would be the bridge that would bring this thing out and then get it over with. My personal opinion is that the government needs to look carefully at this issue, because the most important things were done in 1994, 1995 and 1996, when this process of building associations went pretty hard. When the first articles of association were made, the biggest mistakes that are now the most difficult for people were introduced. We need to talk about direct contracts. When a person buys heat, he has to pay for it on a direct contract. The housing association MTÜ is one block of questions and the other block of questions reflects the relationship between the owner and the company that sells heat. I believe these matters should be discussed more seriously. When we talk about problems, the apartment market is a problem in Kohtla-Järve. It was said that for a few years, when businessmen bought five or six apartments, they left Ida-Virumaa and today these apartments stand empty. When we begin to examine these issues, it becomes clear, frankly, that many of these apartments are state-owned. No one knows exactly today, the state doesn't say how many such apartments there are in one municipality or another. That is also one question that the working group should answer. If we do not start blowing new winds in terms of job creation, we will be sitting in this Chamber several more times or sitting in government or local governments and discussing the same problem. Help the local government with creating jobs! You forget what empty apartments in Ida-Virumaa mean. The market exists in Pärnu, Tallinn, Tartu and elsewhere. We don't have jobs. The number of residents of Tallinn is 430000. People come here because there are jobs here. I think it is your job, Madam Minister, to create jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U158	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like to speak? No. We're done answering the sixth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U159	Let's go to today's final question. This is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Erki Savisaare, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Valeri Korbi, Jaanus Karilaidi, Enn Eesmaa, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Siret Kotka and Tarmo Tamm about the activities of the Enterprise Development Foundation. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. Erki Savisaare to speak on behalf of the interviewers, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U160	Dear fellow fighters, Dear Minister, First of all, let me, on behalf of the heirs, thank the Minister for choosing to come so quickly to answer this question. It's really something extraordinarily positive. So, what's the problem? The EAS must respect the principle of equal treatment when granting grants, as well as the principle of recovery, and any kind of scheme is completely unacceptable. Between 2004 and 2006, EAS offered a tourism promotion measure, during which 48 applicants' applications were granted. One of the beneficiaries was the OÜ Ermaa, which was linked to President Toomas Hendrik Ilves, to which EAS decided to allocate more than 190000 euros. As a result of the project, a cultural and recreational site for public use was to be completed. EAS provided money knowing that the project would result in the completion of this object, but we know that the object was ready, but it was not to be used for its intended purpose. When Toomas Hendrik Ilves was elected president, the provision of accommodation and tourism services to the public was temporarily suspended at the request of Ermamaa, but signals were always given that these services would continue to be provided after the end of the President's term of office and this investment would be used for specific purposes. Now we know that didn't happen. The temporary decision not to provide services became permanent, but the money does not have to be returned by Ermamaa for any reason. The question is why. In our opinion, such a scheme cannot be allowed to happen to anyone, and we hope that the Minister of Enterprise will explain the reasons behind the EAS decision. As far as we know, all the remaining companies that have not been able to meet the objective of the project have had to repay the entire grant. We would have expected the same behaviour from OÜ Ermamaa. This scheme has also been noticed by the European Commission, which is a bit more lenient, and has found that in this situation it would have been right to ask for 90% of the support back, not 100%. But EAS only asked for 10% back. The state prosecutor's office has also stated that the EAS misinterpreted the legislation. Who is responsible for such decisions? We expect the Minister of Enterprise to explain how OÜ's recovery amount of Ermamamaa's support was 10% of the grant allocated. Was this a misuse of euro money? During his term of office, President Ilves always applied for a transparent and honest policy in his words. We want to see the same transparency and honesty in action. I ask the Minister to read our questions and then answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U161	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U162	I'll start by answering questions. The first question: 'Please specify to what extent the EU Structural Funds funds were the basis for the financial resources to be allocated to grants under this measure. How many applications were rejected? 'Estonia's National Development Plan for the introduction of the European Union Structural Funds - Single Programming Document 2004-2006' Action 2.4 'Development of tourism' under the "Tourism product development and marketing' sections and 'Estonia's awareness of travel as a destination' first supported the marketing activities of tourism companies, the so-called soft activities, and the development of tourism products, which means investment. The measure was financed entirely from the Structural Funds of the European Union, to which at least 50% of the beneficiaries' own contribution was added, with an own contribution of at least 60% for the investment made in Tallinn or Harjumaa. A total of 153 applications were submitted under the tourism product development and marketing programme, of which 44 were granted, i.e. almost 30%. This is also common practice for other EU support measures mediated by EAS. In the area of product development, a total of 98 applications were submitted, of which nine were granted in the first round (for a total amount of EUR 3.38 million) and seven in the second round (for a total amount of EUR 2.81 million). The second question: 'How common is it that EAS partially asks for the refund of unused subsidies, or is OÜ Ermamaa a precedent? ' In order to recover aid, the EAS is governed by the legal framework. Paragraph 26 (1) of the Structural Support Act 2004-2006 deals with when a decision may be taken to recover part or all of the aid from the beneficiary. This is possible if it appears that the aid has been used to compensate for ineligible costs; if there is evidence that the application would not have been accepted; if the aid has not been used under the conditions laid down; if the beneficiary has been the subject of liquidation or bankruptcy proceedings; if it appears that the objectives of the project cannot be achieved or the deadlines for the execution of the project have not been met; if the decision granting the application has been declared invalid in accordance with § 202 (4) of this Act; if the precept has not been complied with by the deadline; if the beneficiary has not fulfilled the obligations imposed on it by this law or by the legislation granted on the basis thereof. These are legal bases. If any of the factors giving rise to the abovementioned decision to recover the aid are found to be such that it is not possible to estimate the amount of damage suffered, or if its assessment would be unreasonable in terms of time or resources, but there is a reasonable risk of damage resulting from non-compliance, the aid shall be recovered, depending on the seriousness of the infringement, depending on the amount of aid allocated to the operation or group of activities, at least 2%, 5%, 10% or 25% respectively, depending on the impact of the circumstances on the eligibility of the expenditure. EAS will base its recovery decision on whether or not the damage caused by the use of the aid can be actually assessed. If the damage is estimable, the EAS normally recovers all non-eligible aid under the Recovery Regulation. If the EAS decides that the financial loss is not estimable or that the assessment is unreasonable, the EAS will consider the circumstances of the project and recover the aid in the light of the legal provisions governing the recovery of the aid. For example, in the case of procurement infringements, the recovery regulation sets specific partial recovery rates. Based on the whole period (2004-2006). (a) recoveries, the summary is as follows: In total, EAS issued 137 recovery decisions for all measures (not only tourism grants, but also business grants) including 100% recovery claims for 53 projects, 25 to 100% recovery claims for 18 projects, 10 to 25% for 11 projects and 1 to 10% for 16 projects. There were also 39 projects for which the recovery amount was less than 1% of the aid paid out. It can therefore be summarised that 71 recoveries were higher than 25% and 66 were less than 25% of the aid paid out. EAS practice has been that the so-called full recovery is mostly made for start-up grants projects (start grants are mainly paid from public funds) when the beneficiary received the money but did not submit the final report. Even if the final report was submitted but later it became clear that the company did not operate, wind up or go bankrupt, the EAS has submitted full claims. According to the Ministry of Finance's Guide 'The obligation to use the assets acquired through support, i.e. the application of the duration requirement for the programming periods 2007 to 2013 and 2014 to 2020', it is clarified that, since the recovery requirement must be proportionate, recovery must take into account, inter alia, the field of activity of the beneficiary, the content of the due diligence obligation, including natural loss, and the fulfilment of due diligence obligations in ensuring the preservation of the assets. The same guidance also gives the right to suspend the implementation of an administrative act. This suspension was applied to OÜ Ermamaa. Question 3: 'Please explain how the amount of recovery from OÜ Ermamamaa amounted to 10% of the grant allocated to the project. In the case of OÜ Ermamaa, the EAS Board took the view that it was not possible to assess the financial losses, as the project also partially met the objectives of the measure and the project during the President's term of office, while the tourism farm was not open to all visitors. As a result, the EAS applied the legal basis for the recovery of the aid, according to which the financial loss was not estimable and the amount of the recovery could be estimated from the amount of the aid paid out at 5 to 25%. When determining the percentage of recovery, the EAS weighed the following factors: The recipient of the aid met the main objective of the project, which was considered to be a building intended to be a tourist farm or a conference centre. The beneficiary fulfilled its commitment to the targeted use of the assets received under the grant of the project for a period of 17 months. The obligation to use the property was stopped when Toomas Hendrik Ilves was the president of the Republic of Estonia for a total of ten years. Throughout this period, the beneficiary partially fulfilled the obligation to use the property in a targeted way, i.e. hosted guests on the farm. It was also taken into account that this was a unique situation which was difficult, if not impossible, to compare with other projects, because it had to bear in mind the security requirements and other constraints associated with the presidency. It was considered that it was not possible to know how many visitors would have visited the farm in the rest of the months if the object had been used in a targeted way and thus open to the public. 'Estonia's National Development Plan for the introduction of the European Union Structural Funds - Single Programming Document 2004-2006' The conditions for the parts of Action 2.4 'Development of Tourism' stipulated that the support for product development will support the development of tourist products with international demand, where at least 60% of the additional customers are expected to be foreign tourists. The Bureau took note of the fact that the president's guests in 2007/2016 were largely foreigners. The Bureau took into account that the project was not fraudulent or malicious, and also that the project's own contribution was high, 50% of the project's cost. The current practice of EAS is that if the non-eligible expenditure is calculated, a correction is applied in this respect. It is clear from the decision of OÜ Ermamaa that the decision of the management board was taken on the basis of other factors, i.e. the financial damage caused by the infringement could not be assessed, which led to the fact that the circumstances were corrected on the basis of the percentage corresponding to the extent and gravity of the infringement, on the basis of the Bureau's views on the above mentioned facts. The fourth question: 'It is well known that the remaining three beneficiaries to whom the EAS applied for the same measure had to repay the full amount of the money. What were their deficits in order for them to fully repay the aid? "In total, six projects have received recoveries under this measure, three of which were marketing support projects and three were product development projects. Product development projects included the project of OÜ Ermaa. Product development projects were returned to AS Otepää Golf, Athens Maja OÜ and OÜ Ermaa. Otepää Golf went bankrupt, the asset acquired through the grant was sold by auction and the targeted activity continued, so it was decided not to ask the beneficiary to repay the aid. The support was calculated as an ineligible expenditure under the closure of the Structural Funds. The Athens House project was eventually asked for a refund of 12.5% of the total amount of support, as the project had not been completed in full during the project period. In fact, it is not true that the remaining beneficiaries have reimbursed 100% of the aid. On the contrary, one of them did not pay back anything, the other paid 12.5%. Question 5: 'In your opinion, did EAS make the right decision and the company associated with President Ilves be treated equally with other beneficiaries, or was it a misuse of euro money? " It is very difficult to judge from this point of view. Firstly, it was a measure for the 2004-2006 period. This was the first period of Structural Funds, which is why the structures of the measures were such first experiments. Secondly, it is very difficult to understand exactly what the EAS Board meant in 2012 when they made this decision because there is no precise information on it, except what was stated in that particular decision. That's what I read. I have no reason to draw a conclusion from these three analogous cases, as a company linked to President Ilves would have been treated in a significantly different way than others. But once again, the sample consists of three companies, making it difficult to generalise. Whether this was a misuse of euro money is also quite difficult to say, precisely because the sample is so small. At the same time, it must be said that such a recovery has offended many people's sense of justice, especially because this specific grant and the percentage of reimbursement have already been compared with the subsidies and recovery percentages for the following periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U163	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U164	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! I would like to address you as a minister and a lawyer. In recent days, the press has shown that a number of analyses and audits have been commissioned in this case. As far as I know, there is an audit by the Ministry of Finance, there is an audit commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications from Sorainen Attorneys-at-Law and it became public today that the EAS Board has commissioned an analysis from KPMG. Maybe there's something else. I'm sorry if I don't know for sure! Could you compare, not for very long, but in this way, the main differences between these conclusions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U165	Thank you. In fact, two audits have been commissioned to examine the recovery decisions for this support in 2012 and 2016. I instructed the EAS Council to order the audit from the external auditor. They ordered it from KPMG. The second audit was commissioned by the audit authority, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, on the initiative of the European Commission. In both audits, the conclusions on the overlapping issue are the same. Because the problems were a little different, there is a fundamental difference. However, both agree that in 2012 this decision was so unsubstantiated that it is very difficult to say how this decision was reached. The audit of the audit authority, the Ministry of Finance, goes further. They make it very clear that this decision was wrong and should have been amended in 2016. At Soraainen, the attorney-at-law office that you referred to, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications did not order a normal audit, but rather a memo. It asked whether the EAS Board would have been able to amend the decision taken in 2012. The second question was whether the fact that in 2016 the EAS Board submitted a notification to OÜ Ermaa in the form of an administrative operation, confirming the 2012 decision on recovery of 10%, has worsened the possibility of returning to OÜ Ermaa with a larger percentage of the claim. In addition, EAS has asked for the position of its legal unit on the memo made by the Soraainen Office. My opinion is that these audits and memos can still be ordered. It also depends a little on the problem or the question being raised. My current guideline to the Council has been to review the state of play and the information already gathered so that they focus on whether it is legally possible to make a second decision on OÜ Ermamaa at the moment. If it is no longer possible to amend this decision, they will have to reimburse their disputes from the Fund in the course of the procedure, precisely because the client cannot be held liable for what the administrative body has done wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U166	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U167	Good President! Good minister! You were very gentle in your answers and said it was very difficult to find where the violation was. On the other hand, audits say there are many violations. You, too, have said in public that someone must be held accountable. By saying that someone has to be held accountable, you also say that something has still been very thoroughly violated. You've been saying that publicly. But who has to take responsibility, and why does it have to be responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U168	Thank you. I was not involved in this process when this decision was made in 2012. I have no idea that in 2012 this decision would have been directly due to maliciousness or would have been achieved in a corrupt way. There is no point in continuing to seek responsibility for the 2012 decision now, as this responsibility cannot be determined. In my opinion, it is important to look at whether errors have been made in the process this year, 2016. When I look at the public response and at what negative attention has been paid to the EAS client, I want to be sure that it has nothing to do with the errors in the management of this organisation, or EAS. It seems to me that this situation could have been avoided, avoided and should have been avoided. We are now in a situation where the public has received a very high level of attention and resentment as the owner of OÜ Ermamaa, but also as an EAS organisation. However, this is an organisation that should develop and support entrepreneurship in Estonia and through which very impressive sums of money move. This job cannot be done unless there is creditibile. I also gave the Council a mandate today to review whether the decisions taken during this board have been justified, considered and analysed whether the client has been treated with dignity. They should also review whether the necessary changes have been made to the organisation so that decisions that have been argued in this way, or decisions that have not actually been argued, are no longer taken. Similarly, a situation such as that in 2012, when the process actually lasted for quite a long time and which, to a large extent, passed without a trace being left behind, must be ruled out. There is a need for clarity as to whether, by now, such a situation cannot be ruled out, whether the internal arrangements have been redesigned in such a way that such a situation cannot be repeated. I have asked the Council once again to look at this situation, to draw its conclusions and then to inform me of these conclusions and possible decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U169	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. How is it possible that one such decision is in a drawer for over four years? If this decision was made in 2012, why was it not immediately presented to OÜ Ermaa but only recently? In 2012, these circumstances could have been looked at much more deeply, as all those involved were still in their positions at the time. If the decision is made four or five years later, the question arises as to what is the point of this request. You could say that the reasonable time is over and you don't have to pay anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U171	Thank you. On a specific project, I say that OÜ Ermamaa had applied for support, but our President was present in this place and due to security requirements it was not possible to open it for public use, and therefore OÜ Ermaa submitted a request to suspend the project twice during this period. Therefore, this project has actually been suspended from the beginning of 2007 until conditionally 1 January 2017. A new request for suspension was submitted in 2012, as Toomas Hendrik Ilves had been re-elected President. Then a decision was made, which first accepted the suspension, but also a conditional decision was made on the recovery, in case OÜ Ermamaa does not continue to use this building as a tourist farm after the suspension has ceased. What was at the time the reason why this percentage had to be put in there is not well argued. It was inadequate in my opinion. But in this way it was put there and, in addition, it was put in the justification part of the same decision, not in the operative part, as well as the possibility of changing that rate. The question now is whether this could and should have been changed in 2016. In fact, the decision that was made in 2012 was also communicated to OÜ Ermaa and then to the manager of OÜ Ermaa. This letter has gone out and it's fixed. OÜ Ermaa has received this decision. It's just that at that moment the owner was another person, not the one who owns it now. That's what's gotten me into this misunderstanding. This decision was re-submitted in August this year to the new owner of OÜ Ermaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U172	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U173	Good President! Madam Secretary! Erki Savisaar, don't leave! You're asking questions. No, you can go. Actually, I want to move this whole saga to the next and much more complicated stage. We can argue here for a while whether and how a decision has been made or why it has been made in this way or in some way. But perhaps more important than that is that in our small society, which is a democratic society, there exists a class of 'privileged' or a political class that is allowed, as if more than ordinary citizens. It's something that hurts the sense of justice that hurts very badly. It damages the reputation of all politicians. It also undermines the credibility of political decisions. In my opinion, the question of a million dollars is still one that has not been answered: did there also be political influence during this process? When political influence took place, this story takes a criminal turn and this is a very unpleasant story. But speaking of EAS, it has to be said that perhaps a much more important problem is that such'money distribution' places and, more generally, state-owned enterprises are politicised. It is as if there is a lot of talk about this in the face of the current government crisis. But politicisation is spoken of in such an aspect, as if only if a member of the Riigikogu is on a council or at some point in the distribution of money, it would have been politicised. In fact, it is much deeper, and it concerns all coalition parties who, in the final phase of the coalition negotiations, will start to man the so-called important places where money is distributed and where such money-sharing decisions are made. This is something that we should pay more attention to in this story. Such behaviour, a political system of giving money to your men, should be eradicated from society. I know it's very complicated and difficult, but we should no longer be smart about the payback percentages of this particular company and these things, but we should focus on changing political culture throughout society. I very much hope that this debate will be taken to a new level and the kind of talk that will, how much and where it cost, be reduced. Then we cannot blame this debate either, as if it were petty. This is not a petty issue; it is a very serious issue. Finally, once again, I hope that a new level will indeed arrive in the debate on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U174	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like to speak? No, I don't. The answer to the inquiry is complete. All enquiries have been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-07_U175	Now all members of the Riigikogu and the chairmen of political groups and committees have the opportunity to register for an appearance in a free microphone after a hammer hit. There's no call. The sitting is adjourned. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 7 p.m.
