ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Attention! We will begin the Tuesday session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 17th working week. First of all, there is the possibility of handing over drafts and enquiries. Yes, Mr Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Government rhetoric is, and also in the coalition agreement, that rural areas should create jobs and not lose jobs there. This is what we are asking Kristen Michal, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The question concerns the distance between the people of the services provided by the State. Although the concept of state reform states that...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U3	I'm sorry! Honourable hall, let's pay attention and listen to the waitress! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U4	Thank you. Although the concept of state reform states that the quality of services must not deteriorate, the reality is different. The Road Administration has been given the task of losing 50 jobs this year and the organisation of all offices will be reviewed. To achieve this goal, the Road Administration will close its offices in Jõgeva, Põlva and Valga from 1 July. Maaheleht writes that the closest office for the 6700 clients of Valga office is located in Võru, Jõgeva office for 8900 clients is located in Tartu and Põlva office for 9000 clients in Võru. In addition, the opening hours of the offices of Saaremaa, Hiiumaa and Raplamaa are limited and the number of services offered there is reduced. Let me give you an example from the Põlva office. This office had around 9000 customers last year, 6500 operations were carried out and its turnover was EUR 310,000, of which EUR 140000 was used for operating costs. Thus, the State received a net profit of EUR 170000. So why is the state shutting down the offices? This office doesn't have to be paid by the state. Dear members of the coalition, come together and take the answer to the decision that this shit is going to end! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U5	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu deals with this on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Estonian-Montenegro Parliamentary Group will be held in the Chamber, convened by Heljo Pikhof. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 6.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U6	We will go to the processing of today's agenda items. There are five points on today's agenda, all third readings. All the drafts we are debating today will be put to the final vote. I would point out that in the case of the first three drafts, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the law. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act 203 on the amendment of the Law on the Courts instituted by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the political groups want to negotiate? Kalle Laane, Group of the Reform Party, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U7	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to note that today we have reached the point that we are adopting the necessary changes for the sustainable functioning of the judicial system. In recent years, court competitions have often failed as there are few candidates. A total of 260 applications were submitted to 90 judges (85 circuit courts and 175 judges at first instance) in the competitions opened between 2010 and 2014; however, at the time of selection, the average number of applications for the first instance was one. Competitions were excluded for a number of reasons: non-compliance with the requirements of the judge, refusal to apply (in 11 cases) and failure to pass the judicial examination (9 cases). Six times the candidate was declared unfit for judicial work due to personality characteristics and two times the total amount of the Supreme Court was decided not to submit the candidate to the President. The high number of non-executive judges and those found unfit for judicial work on personality traits shows that there are no strong candidates in court competitions. Highly qualified lawyers prefer other legal professions to the judiciary, such as lawyers, prosecutors or corporate lawyers. This is a major problem in Estonian courts, because the judiciary, as one branch of power, needs to fill judges with the best lawyers. A study conducted in 2014 by the Supreme Court and research firm Factum & Ariko shows that, in the long term, only about one fifth of the lawyers and Master of Law students interviewed saw themselves as a judge. The questions justified a lack of interest in the judiciary by the fact that the process of applying for a judge is too time-consuming and the preparatory service of the judge is too long and the preparatory service is accompanied by ignorance and ambiguity. It should also be taken into account that in the next five years, about a quarter of the judges will retire and the need for new judges will increase. In order to solve these problems, the legislative changes before you have been developed, the main aim of which is to make the procedure for becoming a judge more flexible. The amendments abolish the preparatory service of the two-year-old judge who has lived his time. Instead, a new system will be set up under which the candidate must have at least five years' professional experience in the job corresponding to the qualifications after an appropriate education as a judge of a county or administrative court. The candidate must pass a judicial examination and a personality test. Another important change is the removal of the so-called internal barriers to becoming a lawyer and a prosecutor. According to the amendment, a person who has worked for at least three years as a lawyer or prosecutor, with the exception of an assistant prosecutor, is exempted from judicial proceedings. This will encourage horizontal mobility between legal professions. I am sure that in the coming years, as a result of this legislative amendment, we will have new judges with a strong legal background in the judiciary, including a strong legal and prosecutorial background. The third important change concerns the social security of judges. As you recall, the social guarantees for judges were reduced by the law of the courts, as amended, following the Civil Service Act, which entered into force on 1 April 2013. According to this, all judges have 35 calendar days of equal leave instead of earlier longer leave. In order to motivate candidates and judges who are already in office, additional days of leave are now granted to the judges for their seniority: five years of work as a judge will be added by two days, ten years of service will be paid for four days and seven days for 15 years of service. These legislative changes should lead to highly qualified and recognised lawyers. This is, as has been said, essential for the sustainable functioning and development of the judicial system. The Reform Party supports the adoption of the Bill as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U8	Thank you. Jüri Adams, the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U9	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The purpose of this bill is to get more judges. The basic method offered is one set of various remedies. The main idea is that new judges could come from other legal tsunamis that are in Estonia. Whether this set of remedies will give the desired result is something that no one can appreciate right now. In any case, all experts, starting with the Chairman of the Supreme Court, think that this way we will get enough judges in the coming years. I think in about two years' time it will be clear whether this set of measures to be adopted today gave the right result or not. If not, we, or our offspring, must return to the subject. In my opinion, the most sympathetic thing about this bill is that it is the first attempt to break up the internal walls of the legal tsunamis. We went this way in the restoration and reconstruction of the Estonian state for some reason, that we created special, almost Indian-type boxes, we might also call them golden cages, which are hard enough to get into, but if there are in there, there is almost no way out of there. The only way is to retire and start dealing with something else, and there's no other way. What are these boxes or cages? The first, and the most important in practice for reforms, is the notary box. I don't know that anyone out there would have made a very significant career outside this box. Then there are the judges we're talking about today and the prosecutors. The bar Association, which is pseudo-nationally structured, could also be dealt with here. There are still smaller jobs by the track, all the way to the bailiffs. In general, these agencies recognise that the necessary preparation for this profession is law school. I want to say that the system we've built definitely has its strengths, but it also has its weaknesses. In part, this legal question is whether we have not narrowed down those people who have applied civil rights and political rights in one of these boxes and whether we have behaved most rationally from the point of view of the Estonian state. It is a question of whether we will at least make maximum use of the people in this field in Estonia so that they can make the most of their abilities. Consider, too, that in time, abilities mature. In the first Republic of Estonia it was quite common that, for example, in political activities, primary education was legal education, and the entry into politics was often carried out so-called bypassing the social activities, and when this period had passed, it was returned to its former occupation. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U10	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U11	I have recently said in the Riigikogu that there are probably no former judges or prosecutors in this Chamber, some lawyers may be. But in general, compared to the pre-war composition of the Riigikogu, the number of people who have acquired experience in these professions has been extremely low in our social and political activities, including here in the Riigikogu. If we start looking for reasons why the work of the state may not go as well as we would like, or why there are obvious shortcomings in the work of the Riigikogu, which I have talked about several times here too, this could probably be one explanation. A positive example is attorney-at-law Märt Rask. Perhaps you will remember that he has been a lawyer, in the meantime there was a minister, he has been in Parliament and has been a judge, and now he is a lawyer again. I think that's a better way of life. I very much hope that, if not during this government, there will be some kind of reform during some of the next governments, which will open up the possibility for all those people who are locked in these golden cages to go out of that cage, namely to take part in elections and to be elected in Parliament, for example, during one or more configurations, and that they will have the opportunity to return when this period of life has ended, but they could also think of diplomatic service, for example. One small question is that we have written into the law a lot of essentially hypocritical languages, having banned many people in judicial boxes from belonging to a party. It's pointless. It is desiccating, for everyone who has political convictions acts on it, regardless of whether or not he is formally allowed to declare a desire to cooperate with his fellows. Finally, I call for us to move forward from here as soon as possible and to create the opportunity for our legal professionals to make the best use of their own abilities at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U12	Thank you. Andres Anvelt, the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want any more time, but I'm gonna say that the law makes you feel a little different. Actually, we're gonna make a mistake in the near future. What do you mean? The Courts Act has largely been introduced into the Riigikogu in order to improve access to the judiciary and create a situation where the competitions for becoming judges would not fail, as has unfortunately happened in recent times. But why has it been like this? There are several 'but's. Firstly, a few years ago, when we also dealt with the law of courts, we basically lost a special pension for judges. Thanks to the amendments by the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe, which we changed a little in the committee, we are now bringing back the retirement leave of judges, or we are creating social motivations to keep people in positions that create a sense of justice and justice in society and people, which guarantees security. I want to get away from here. I want to talk at all about certain areas, which are the foundations of the survival of statehood, we often refer to these areas as internal security, and about devalued social motivation in these areas, even in words alone. Believe me, I occasionally receive alarming reports from my former colleagues in the police system when they have heard once again that the issue of their pensions, i.e. the abolition of special pensions and the reform of the system, is being discussed in the political circles. Perhaps this reform is necessary because, for example, the Rescue Board and the police have different systems. But it should not be forgotten that this constant talk behind the scenes is causing people's motivation to decline, and this may lead to a failure of competitions at some point, just as the judges' competitions fail. In other words, I would like to say that the law we are discussing today is certainly a very good one, a step forward from the deadlock that has arisen in the judiciary. However, I hope that we will not be taking such steps in the near future that will cause a situation from which we should start reversing in a few years' time when we see that competitions in another area will fail. So let us support this law today and thus give confidence in other areas of justice and justice, including internal security, workers, so that they feel safe and want to continue working in this area, and young people would like to go to work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U14	Thank you. The political groups do not want to negotiate any more, I will conclude the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 203. Since the law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption, we will do a verification of presence before the vote. 94 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 7. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the amendment of the law on courts initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the draft law on the amendment of other laws 203. Please take a stand and vote. 65 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 6 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U15	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the third reading of the draft Act 181 amending the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U16	Good manager! Good Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U17	Colleagues, the hearing is ongoing!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U18	The Free Party Group does not support the possibility for a member of the Riigikogu to sit in the so-called two chairs, we do not support the draft, which bears the number 181. Why? The Free Party came to the party scene with a very clear message. Our aim is, above all, to strengthen communities and give them opportunities, to empower citizens more to participate and decide, as this will keep an active population in its own country and will find reasons to motivate its fellow citizens to do the same. However, this possibility is greatly withdrawn by the draft. Instead, we will strengthen the influence of the large-scale communities, which, unfortunately, will also be done by the draft law to be discussed on the next agenda item, the draft law on administrative reform. We see clear threats here. There is no clear limit that the municipality is independent. Yes, in some cases, a member of the Riigikogu, passing on his experience and knowledge, can bring some professionalism to the local council, but unfortunately political technology has increased so much in this century that the relatively weak and weak situation of local governments is used for forced partying. A member of the Riigikogu is not cut off from the community if he or she is not a member of the local council. A member of the Riigikogu cuts himself off from the community with his attitude and behaviour. The bill doesn't help people like us to get more credit, it reduces it. One of the most important risk areas is the distribution of money through the MPs. Roof money seems to have been easily found to the public body as a gold mine, which can consciously influence one or another target group. In reality, this situation is quite sad for the recipient of the money, because he is being humiliated, but we cannot miss the money, because there is a way to find sources of expenditure. If members of the Riigikogu are admitted to local councils, the use of roofing money becomes even more stringent a commodity-to-good deal, which may result in an increase in the amount of roofing money. In a radio debate, one coalition politician pointed out that there is no need to worry, since the draft mainly concerns Tallinn and Tartu. All the more so! Do you not remember that until now, from this mountain, the interference with Tallinn's affairs has ended with the opposite result? We will not change our political culture by looking at this hall with comfortable mops of law. It's a life-stranger and irresponsible behavior. Political culture is only changed by hard work. I only understand the need to empower members of the Riigikogu once a balance point has been found in the matter of who can participate in the Riigikogu elections. If the citizens' electoral alliances could not only participate in the parliamentary elections, the idea would be balanced. Today's solution points rather to the fact that, after the draft law on administrative reform, we will be dealing with the ban on electoral alliances in the enlarged municipalities. Please, let us avoid such thinking. We have 51010 members for six political parties today. Why do we need so many members if we do not trust even in local governments to decide them, but we need to send them to better direction? At all, why do political parties not consider themselves to be civil society organisations, but to put themselves above them? Let's talk about time use. At very light hands, it is said that local councils should change their organisation so that members of the Riigikogu can participate in the work of the council. It's another subjugation of local people. In addition, there is a big difference between whether a member of the Riigikogu is in the coalition or opposition and whether it is a small or a large group. If the support staff of the political groups are not equalised, this is a screaming inequality that will once again benefit the great communities. The working arrangements of the members of the Riigikogu have weeks and days to meet the voters. Let us consider this. In general, however, it would be better for us to stick to our grids rather than to worsen again the quality of Parliament's work, which, as we generally know, is weak and characterised by the keywords 'roller' and 'rut'. Rather, we should find time and methods for the Riigikogu to have real discussions on the content, based on analyses. Good ambassadors! Please, together, let us think about how to give more people the opportunity to participate in policy-making and decision-making processes. The knowledge and skills of the members of the Riigikogu can be applied through voluntary activities. Our governance is increasingly moving towards transferring national functions to volunteers. But let's set an example, and let's not stick our noses everywhere! We volunteer to help where we're given the opportunity. Good Riigikogu! Please give us the opportunity to increase awareness and opportunities for citizens and local authorities, and let us not adopt a draft, which is rather a short-term view. The Riigikogu is here to look further into the future. Let's do it together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U19	Thank you. Mark Soosaar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On our table is the draft law of the 'fate' member of the Riigikogu, i.e. the draft of two chairs. By the way, standing under the flowing water this morning, I discovered that I do have two buttocks and two chairs for me. Then I looked over my body and it turned out that I had two hands and two legs, but it makes sense to use them together. Then I kept thinking that we all have two eyes that give us a stereotype, we have two ears that give us stereosound, and we have two hemispheres that give us a spatial view of the world and enable us to control the whole organism. Unfortunately, another trend has come into our policy, and it has been going on for a long time. It's thinking with one hemisphere that we see in this hall, in councils and in many other places. Ask the doctors what happens if only one hemisphere stays operational. Cooperation between the municipality and the state is the key to the secret by which we proceed with administrative reform and the construction of our country. A number of examples of non-cooperation can be found. It's like this. A few weeks ago, being a member of the Pärnu City Council Planning Committee, of which I am a member, may be a member of the Riigikogu, I was able to explain why the reduction of the Pärnu Heritage Protection Area protection zone is counterproductive to maintaining national values, in this case a remote view of Pärnu Old Town. The Commission did not take a decision to reduce the protection zone of the heritage reserve by 6 votes to 6. But I did not have the opportunity to speak with the council, and the council still voted in favour of going to war with the country and taking a step by step to reduce the heritage reserve, starting with building the riverside with a long Chinese wall. It is claimed that this is a conflict of interest when the members of the Riigikogu work on both sides, both in the council and in the Riigikogu. But let's talk about things the way they really are. Riigikoguists work in the Riigikogu, go to councils barely once a month, if any. Many councils don't go together once a month, they just go there to give advice and make laws. It's the vertical of the law. When Montesquieu first drew attention to conflicts of interest in the history of the world, he meant that the landlord would make laws, comply with them and control himself. Maybe first, there should be a separation between the legislative and executive powers. There is certainly no such conflict of interest here. But the cooperation between the state and the municipality limps in two legs, and here the adoption of this bill as a law at third reading will certainly help to improve the situation. If we are going the way that Külliki Hatter suggested, we could continue to develop this subject. We, who are 101 here and who are talking about our legislative power, should perhaps have our wings cut even further. Our representatives should perhaps be recalled from the Broadcasting Council, the National Library Council and the Opera Council, and our communication with local government councillors and their influence should not be prohibited, as this ban has not yet been implemented. At all, perfection is sometimes good, but is nature absolute perfection... Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U21	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U22	... whether reaching absolute perfection in nature will not end life in itself is a matter of its own. But if we go on this road, we could take all kinds of rights away from the members of the Riigikogu. One might take away, for example, the right to drink the tap water that comes from Lake Ülemiste and put on a glass dome here so we can't really communicate with others. Then we could make absolutely clean, clear and uninfluenced decisions. The prison walls are here, so let's put ourselves in this prison and enjoy ourselves for the rest of our lives. Perhaps even the law on the 'fate' of a member of the Riigikogu should be made in future in such a way that a member of the Riigikogu is elected once and then for the rest of his life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U23	Thank you. Andre Sepp on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act 181, or the draft of two chairs, is, as has already been mentioned here today, an initiative resulting from a coalition agreement. This is intended to restore a situation in which members of the Riigikogu could at the same time be members of the local council and vice versa, i.e. they want to abolish those restrictions, according to which members of the Riigikogu may not be members of the same and another representative body at the same time. It follows from the constitution of our country that the task of local government is to solve the problems of this community and to organise community life in the local interest. This is described in the seventh paragraph of Chapter XIV of our Constitution. Let it be said here that local government units decide autonomously within the framework of the executive power on local life, as do public universities, research institutions and Eesti Pank, where the essence of the division of decision-making power between different levels of decision-making, which can also be considered a vertical separation of powers. Local authorities are first and foremost distinguished by more direct legitimacy from the State apparatus, but because of the autonomy protected by the Constitution, local authorities are not subject to the normal relationship of jurisdiction in the administration of the state. § 65 of the Constitution lays down the tasks of the Riigikogu and, for many of us, § 22 of the Local Government Organisation Act, provides for the functions of the local government council. They don't have overlaps. In addition, it is possible for local government bodies to ensure by their internal acts that the time of meetings of the councils or the working time of the council does not coincide with the working time of the Riigikogu provided for in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. It's possible if you want it well. Of course, a number of articles and writings have appeared on the issue of how it would be right since the legislative amendment, according to which the reconciliation of these works was no longer permitted, came into force in 2005. Opinions have been different, as have the interpretations of the Chancellors of Justice. Often, the position of the Constitutional Review College has also been misinterpreted from 14 October 2005, just as it would prohibit reconciliation. It should be noted here that the position states that although the Constitution does not prohibit changes to the electoral arrangements even immediately before the elections, the College did not consider it democratic to make such changes to the electoral rules immediately prior to the elections, but the reconciliation or non-unification of the agencies is not the subject of this decision. We remember that the elections were at the door at that moment, and that was the position of the College in the interests of legal clarity. It's been 11 years now, and the bill is on our desk. The current Chancellor of Justice has made a positive assessment of this approach, as stated in draft 181, and has not seen a constitutional conflict here. Obviously, the founding fathers of the Constitution also know and remember that they did not want to prohibit the simultaneous membership of elected persons in different representative bodies, because otherwise, after the entry into force of the Constitution, this would not have been the case until 2005 when this amendment came into force. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U25	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U26	The provision on remuneration is also new in the draft. Two seats at a time will not be rewarded, which we consider reasonable and apparently largely precluded from hurting the sense of justice. Also, membership in both representative bodies is not mandatory, but an option. It is possible to opt for one or the other representative body. Hopefully, the local elections in 2017 will be clearer and the so-called decoy party will disappear in this form and all the candidates who have been elected will actually be able to represent their voters. Ladies and gentlemen, We are not too many in this country to be banned and restricted. On the contrary, in order to achieve the best decision, we need to increase our competences. European countries know very different practices in this area, but only eight countries have ruled out simultaneous membership in both chambers. The Reform Party is convinced that the simultaneous membership of the Riigikogu and the local government council is equally applicable to its citizens in the sense of both passive and active electoral rights and helps members of the Riigikogu to participate directly in resolving issues in their home area. Estonians have a saying that you should not confuse work and home affairs. Perhaps this saying will also help to better implement this legislative amendment and develop political culture in the meaning of the transfer. The Reform Party does not support restrictions that are not indispensable. We want to strengthen the link between local authorities and Parliament in the area of local life, and we also want to improve the political culture under which both representative bodies act and work with dignity. Let us hope that this is the wish and task of all of us in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U27	Thank you. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U28	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The local government is autonomous, says the Constitution. Indeed, even if a member of the Riigikogu is involved in the work of the local government council, this autonomy will not disappear. But it's perfectly clear that we're not living in any ideal world. We do not live in a world where there is no intrigue between people, no abuse of information, no influence of local decisions or any such action. There are things like that, of course. Since we assume that no one outside Estonia knows how we have the right and best decisions to make here in Estonia, we should also not expect that the person who works mainly in the Riigikogu, even if he has been elected from somewhere in Võrumaa or the north of Virumaa and his connection to this place has gradually become somewhat more relaxed, should think that just as he and the party have decided, the right and best for the local people. Surely this is not the case. Moreover, it is not incomprehensible to any sane person that we are literally creating a beauty contest in municipal elections with bathing pools and everything like that. It is quite clear that a well-known politician from all over Estonia, applying in the local government, hits all the local electoral alliances with a long tree, as well as the well-known and good local social figures. This distorts the political picture and undoubtedly distorts political decisions that should be autonomous on the ground and based solely on the interests of the local people. We have repeatedly emphasised that we cannot support the introduction of such a power vertical from Kadriorg to Piirissaare or Ruhnu Island. This is not the Estonia that belongs to the Estonian people. This is not Estonia, where the local people at the level of the village societies decide that this is better for them and so they do. This is Estonia, which is run from above, just like someone who has more, better and better power. We do not think that such singing on one way would be best for Estonia. We would like to see a very polyphonic political picture in Estonia. This is only guaranteed if we deal with what we do here and communicate with the people. We communicate much more with the people than we normally do, especially in the run-up to the elections, of course. We know what the people are waiting for from us here, but not to sell to the people and smear what we think is right. That is why, without further ado, I say that our group does not support this draft, because it is a draft for the centralisation of power and the usurping of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U29	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, negotiations have been concluded. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 181. We are going to the final vote. Since the adoption of the draft act again requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of the presence before the vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act 181 amending the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 29 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U30	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the third reading of the draft law on administrative reform initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U31	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act 200 on administrative reform initiated by the Government contains the basis and procedure for carrying out the administrative reform, determines the minimum size of the local government and the exceptions thereto, and the rights and obligations attached to the merger of local governments. The objective of the administrative reform is to create municipalities that are able to provide people with the best public services, ensure the competitiveness of the regions and independently perform the tasks assigned to them by law. According to the draft, at least 5 000 people should normally reside in the local government. At the same time, the draft states that in order to achieve the objective of administrative reform, the formation of municipalities with at least 11000 inhabitants is recommended. 80% of Estonian municipalities have fewer than 5000 inhabitants. According to the draft, until the end of this year, local governments will have time for voluntary accession and the government will pay the accession grant to the merging municipalities. A total of up to EUR 80 million is foreseen for this purpose. If, after voluntary mergers, there are still sub-criteria, the government will first propose voluntary mergers to them in the coming year. Even if this does not produce results, the government will unite these municipalities by coercion. This is, in short, the content of the administrative reform that Professor Mäeltseman has considered appropriate to call for an administrative-territorial reform. I guess that's what it really is. According to the professor, one of the problems associated with the merger of rural municipalities has been dealt with in the long term by the fact that the state does provide support for this, but the problem of the local government's income base is not dealt with. Today, carrots have been offered to local and city leaders: if they leave their seat, they will receive a prize. The government has decided to further increase the support of the merging municipalities, but the professor says he feels a little scared. It has been said that the municipalities are going to receive a lot of money from the state. The stork will be delivered from Toompea, but in the coming years you will have to live with the sparrow, because if you do not deal with the issue of the local government's income base, you will inevitably think that the local government's income will be questioned in the future under the conditions of this large rural municipality. That's what the professor said. Why can't the Central Party Group support the bill? Although the objective of providing better public services is noble in itself, we fear that it will be merely a slogan, because, given the current financing model and also the budgetary strategy for the coming years, we cannot feel confident that we can offer high quality services, precisely because of the lack of financial cover. Bills on the revenue base are allowed to be brought to the table by autumn. This allows for significant improvements in the situation of municipalities, but the national budget strategy shows that until 2020 road funding (EUR 29 million) and educational expenditure allocations will be of the former order. Indeed, it must be acknowledged that EUR 15 million has been added to the Equalisation Fund in 2019 and EUR 25 million in 2020. This is only a plan, however, and even if it is realised, the pre-crisis fine-tuning fund will not be restored to its resources. We would have liked to have supported the draft if our amendments to increase the revenue base and to restore the funding of roads and the resources of the Equalisation Fund had received the support of the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. As a road roller, all the amendments that would have provided the local authorities with developmental certainty were passed. There's only hope that one day they'll be taken into account. Today, however, there is a mechanical merger of local governments. It's only the future that shows who has done it, who has done it, and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U32	Thank you. Kalle Laane on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U33	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on administrative reform, which we are about to vote on as a law today, aims to unite existing small municipalities and towns in such a way as to create municipalities that can manage themselves from their own resources, plan their own holistic development and provide their residents with better quality public services and thereby hinder the peripheralisation of rural areas. The main focus of the reform is not to draw Estonia's new administrative division card, but to improve the protection of people's fundamental rights. The organisation of Estonian local government must comply with the principle of the European Charter of Local Government, which requires that local government units are sufficiently capable to carry out their tasks. However, the audits of the National Audit Office and the procedures of the Chancellor of Justice show that a large number of small municipalities are unable to cope successfully with the tasks assigned to them and always guarantee the fundamental rights of all their residents. In particular, it is difficult for small municipalities to hire sufficient competent staff and to ensure that public services are available at a sufficiently good level. At present, about four-fifths of municipalities are supported by the state budget. In order for municipalities and cities to manage their tasks independently and well and to be able to hire the necessary staff, it is necessary that the number of their inhabitants, and thus the income base, is large enough. In larger and higher-income-based municipalities, there are better opportunities to hire good professionals, and in turn, each specialist can focus on some of the narrower areas, i.e. specialise and professionalise. At the same time, because of the scale effect, larger municipalities will have better opportunities to reduce management costs. Prerequisites arise to channel more resources into the life-promoting activities of communities. The draft, however, creates only prerequisites for this. The key to substantive solutions is in the hands of those who are chosen on the ground or who are going to implement administrative reform. The task of local leaders is to provide better public services to their residents in a changed environment. The contribution of the experts involved in the drafting of the draft is invaluable. Thank you very much to all those people who, because of their duties or their free will, have contributed to the preparation of this draft in order to provide the best solution. Against this background, however, it should not be forgotten that the administrative reform governed by the draft is intended only for the first stage of the reform of the state. At the end of May this year, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs set up a Steering Group on State Reform, composed of representatives of all the political groups of the Riigikogu. The task of the Steering Group is to develop a sectoral concept of state reform, which is expected to be completed by December 2017. As a result of the reforms that have been put in place, high-quality public services must be available throughout Estonia. The Reform Party supports the adoption of the Bill as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U34	Honourable Riigikogu! Let me also say a few words on behalf of the initiator before the decisive vote. We have reached another historic moment today. Never before has the draft law on administrative reform re-independence in Estonia been in the final vote in the Riigikogu. I would like to put it to your heart that the administrative reform is already underway. I would like to point out that accession negotiations are being held in most of Estonia's municipalities and are being held actively, constructively and with full seriousness. So today we are not launching an administrative reform here, but we have the opportunity to give it our approval and press our final seal on it or, in the case of a black scenario, to brake it once again. Twenty years of heated debates have taken place, of course there have been different views and angles of approach, but today we have reached a certain point of balance which is also accepted by the local government leaders, among other things in the municipalities in which electoral unions and opposition parties are in power. The reform is actually accepted and accepted, the process is under way. I would like to confirm on behalf of the government that we will continue with the next steps to reform the model of government. We have prepared blanks of the bill on cooperation, functions and, of course, financing of local governments. It has already been said here that we have significantly increased municipal funding in the country's budget strategy. Income tax receipts of municipalities will grow from the current base of EUR 500 million over the next four years. The most recent decisions taken by the government in making the country's budget strategy in the spring gave the municipalities another EUR 190 million in the next four years. But we're going to review this model as a whole. However, anything that concerns the functions, cooperation and financing of local governments would be pointless if we could not make the most difficult and difficult decision on the merger of local governments today. Finally, I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to this reform. I would like to thank dozens of officials, experts, local government leaders and members of the Riigikogu, both in the opposition and in the coalition, who have contributed to making this draft stronger and we would have a calm heart if we voted in favour of it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U35	Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, the ten-minute break taken by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica has ended. Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, we will do a verification of the presence before the vote. 95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 6. I shall vote on the draft law on administrative reform initiated by the Government of the Republic 200. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 38 against, with no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U37	Thank you. Mr Kiisler, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! So let's get this ice moving tonight! For the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the administrative reform has been a long-standing request, for which we have stood firm even when others have hesitated or doubted, quite opposed it or ridiculed it. We certainly welcome those who have changed their minds and who have joined us on the side of supporters of administrative reform. Thank you for that. We ourselves support this draft and call on all the other groups to support it. At the same time, we realise that this draft is a compromise, and compromises always have their drawbacks. We have repeatedly said that this law could have been more ambitious. We are also convinced that the Estonian model of attraction centres presented in this hall two years ago by the Isamaa and Res Publica Union would have been better in the current situation. Then there would not be so much uncertainty and uncertainty in the municipalities all over Estonia today, who will join or what the outcome of the negotiations will be. But I've been saying right here on the remote that this bill doesn't force stupid mergers, it allows very, very smart decisions to be made. In order for these wise decisions and mergers to take place, according to this bill, the local government leaders, the next regional committees provided for by law, the minister responsible for the sector and, finally, the Government of the Republic will play a very important role. We want courage and determination for all decision-makers so that the reform can be carried out in such a way that everyone can be proud of the result. If these decisions are made, if they are not chickened out and if necessary forced mergers are carried out, that is not all, of course. The IRL is looking to the Minister responsible for regional affairs in a demanding manner, awaiting the promised proposals to change the responsibilities and funding of local governments, as if it were appropriate for stronger and larger municipalities. We want to see these drafts before us in the autumn, as promised. We support this bill. This is an important step that we are taking today, but it is only the first step. We're gonna have to go down this road for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U39	Thank you. Ivari Padar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U40	Thank you. Priit Onion, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U41	Thank you. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union have waited ten years for administrative reform. I ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the group so that others can think and support the draft as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U42	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of being an active politician in the third Triple Union, with the parties of the Reform Party, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Social Democrats. As far as administrative reform is concerned, the two coalitions had social democrats and the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance were on the same side and the Reform Party was as opposed. For this reason, we believe that this option, this opportunity today, that the Reform Party has moved towards administrative reform, must be exploited. That's right. When we look at the time when we started discussing this issue here, I spoke in my speech about the concerns that the Socialists believe need to be clarified and improved in the process. I dare say that there has been progress here, which is positive. First of all, state budget strategy and local government funding. I have here six positions in the country's budget strategy, where there is already greater funding for local authorities to a considerable extent. This is certainly a positive step forward. Secondly, the clarification of the rights at local level also in relation to divisions and districts, their rights and opportunities. In this context, too, the budget has improved and we can be satisfied. Speaking of exceptions, I fully understand that not everyone could be brought to the bar in order not to break the spirit of reform. Some important things got in and some things got out. What is pleasant is that the Setus have been given the opportunity to establish their own local government. As far as island differences are concerned, the additional proposals put forward by members of our group, in particular Kalev Kotkas and Mark Soosaare, which would have further detailed these differences, unfortunately did not find consensus and did not receive a majority vote in this Chamber. But this is what Parliamentary practice is all about. When it comes to Hiiumaa, it's probably a coercive choice because of the location. It is certainly another issue to see whether freshwater islands should be specialized. As has already been said, this law is certainly only the first stage, the first step in dealing with this major issue, the name of which is state reform. Following these decisions, which we are confirming here today, a number of the following decisions must come, and they must certainly be reasonable and balanced. You cannot overload Estonia with things that society cannot swallow. One small detail: the same topic of the Road Administration, which has been discussed this week and last week and will be discussed until 5 July. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U43	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U44	The law on administrative reform and all its implications need to be seen more broadly in terms of access to services, as well as employment in rural areas. My suggestion is not to rush ahead with the process of administrative reform, but also with the plans of the various authorities to act on the ground, unless it is clear to us what the future of rural governments will be, where they will remain, what their houses will be, and how to organise a possible state house. All these things want to be settled and considered calmer and longer. It's a small detail, but the Road Administration has just pulled up the panic, and communication has been wrong. Hence the recommendation that we take this step as a first step today and move forward with administrative reform and state reform at a reasonable pace and in a very prudent way. I do not want to add anything else but that we support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U45	Thank you. Artur Talvik on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U46	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party came to Estonia's politics to bring the message that Estonia could be borne by a community spirit, that there could be a stronger civil society in Estonia, that the idea of self-perpetuating could be spread here, and that Estonian people and communities could have a greater say in deciding their own affairs on the ground. The Free Party came into Estonian politics, carried by the spirit of the people's assembly. As we continued this spirituality, we were very pleased that we came here at the time when the administrative reform was really being tackled. It is precisely through administrative reform that the philosophy that we have brought into Estonian politics could best have been sown. This could have led the decision-making to an even lower level, even closer to the grassroots. This would have allowed local governments to reduce "participant power" and increase the autonomy of local governments. It could have shaken the princesses that have emerged in many places and changed the mentality of government that exists in local governments. We began to reform the administration with enormous enthusiasm, and we really hoped that some part of our thinking would become part of these principles. But what happened? It happened about the same thing that happened to the community. We were rejected in the scrap plate, or absolutely all of our proposals were rejected, even though there were 50. These proposals were inspired by this spirit in order in any way to introduce real community thinking into the bill. Yes, rhetorically, there is a lot of talk about communities here, but more and more I understand that we talk about communities in different ways. The government coalition speaks of communities as I don't even know about the associations of glove-killers or folk dancers. We are talking about communities as regional associations of people who live in one region and want to make their own decisions on the ground that change the life of this region. There's a big difference. The concept of "participant" was introduced into the draft law and said that it could keep communities alive and give them better opportunities. But when we went through this department to introduce the real concept of community into the law, we realized that the division is also just a trick in this bill. This is not what we think, and this is what we want to emphasise every day. When making the draft law, we were told that this would be done in order to improve the services provided in the rural area. But what we're seeing is totally the opposite. We are currently talking a great deal about the closure of DMC offices in county centres, which means that the service actually leaves the country, the provision of this service is not improving at all. Rhetorically, it is said that why should a service centre be kept there when a lot of DMV services go online? But what do we see? We have a broadband or high-speed internet programme that has been put into practice recklessly and which has shown us that there is really no intention of taking the Internet to the country. Fortunately, many coalition politicians have also understood this. So the whole administrative reform or state reform in general is a reminder of a situation in which people in every corner are acting on their own under the letter of state reform, but the spirit of state reform is borne by a general and holistic indiscretion. We see that every day. Even this reform of the Ark, initiated by the same Road Administration, could have expected this moment if it had been clear how many counties would actually remain in Estonia. The Free Party is, how can I say, very sad that none of our proposals have been taken into account. The talk of some sort of compromise that has been made during the procedure of this bill is absolutely not true. At least we have not been able to compromise on any of the proposals. I have noticed that even the amendments tabled by the individual coalition members were not taken into account. So where is the compromise, good people? When I started, I said it was a bill that we could best justify our coming to politics. In order not to end up in a depressing tone, I would like to say something to reassure our own group. We have been around a lot in local governments and talked to the people of local governments about our amendments. They have said very often that they like our amendments. They think we understand local life, but they've also said that maybe we're ahead of time. I hope that our group will have the patience to expect the time when the power of the great parties will end in Estonia and the power of the communities will materialise. I will say another very important sentence: we are categorically opposed to this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U47	Thank you. Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U48	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Conservative People's Party is designed to preserve and protect the Estonian state and people, and to make life possible everywhere in Estonia. The draft law on administrative reform, which I hope will not be passed as a law today, does not guarantee life everywhere in Estonia. On the contrary, it accelerates peripheralisation, the emptying of rural areas and the extinction of jobs and schools, i.e. the entire normal living environment. The only objective that can be found in this draft is the effort of the power parties to strengthen the power vertical from top to bottom to the municipalities, which in turn is reinforced by the previous draft, which was passed here as a law and which gave members of the Riigikogu the right to be a member of the local government council. In previous speeches, even the members of the coalition admitted that this draft was not enough and that a number of other laws still had to be adopted, which would be done in the future. Dear people, why don't you start at the right end? Why don't you start with the substance of the administrative reform? Why don't you lose all the bottlenecks in the functioning of local governments today? Why don't you solve the issue of local government funding? Why don't you determine the division of responsibilities between the state and local governments? Why are you not reducing the bureaucracy that is too much and increasing? Why aren't you dealing with the substance? Who needs an administrative reform that actually represents nothing more than a violent change of borders and which has no positive outcome from a local perspective? The claim that local governments' financial capacity is increasing is, after all, naive. Put two poor men together, put five or ten poor men together, but they won't be one gram richer than that. They say the supply of services is improving. How can it improve if the municipal income base is not increased? How can it be improved when municipal authorities, or parish houses, move tens of kilometres away from people? On the contrary, the supply of services is deteriorating as services are no longer available to a large number of people. This whole administrative reform has been turned upside down. The rumor that perhaps other laws will ever improve the situation is simply not taken seriously or credible. Let's look at the revenue base. This was reduced in 2009 and until now, not a cent has been returned to the municipalities. To date, not a cent has been added to the new challenges. At the same time, the value of money has fallen. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U49	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U50	The value of money has fallen, the challenges have increased and all prices have risen. These are the reasons why some tasks have not been fulfilled or have been poorly performed by municipalities. Members of the coalition parties, you will act as if you were forever and as if the power of this coalition would last forever. Today, our party's support is greater than that of two coalition parties, the support of the Centre Party is greater than that of all coalition parties, but you still imagine that by strengthening the politicisation of local governments and the vertical weight of power, you can also manage local life and through it, or through voters, orchestrate presidential elections. But I predict that after the next election, the situation will be different, the government will be ours. Is it good for you to be in the opposition, knowing that you yourself have cut off all your opportunities to participate in Estonia's life? Be statesmen! Feel that you represent the country of Estonia and the people of Estonia, not your party, not your party's leadership, and, forgive me, those boys who lead you! I don't know what else to say. I don't have anything else to say. Show for once that you care about the Estonian state and the Estonian people, and vote accordingly! Don't take a side like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U51	Thank you. All the political groups have been able to participate in the negotiations. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Minister of Public Administration Arto Aas has asked for the floor. We will also hear the Minister's speech before the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U52	Let's keep going. Today's fourth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Private School Act, the Youth Work Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Laine Randjärv on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please! 5 + 3 minutes. Colleagues, attention, let us focus on the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start by thanking all the parties involved in drafting the bill: good school leaders, parents, teachers, schools communities, journalists and lawyers, educators and colleagues from the Riigikogu. The process was long and it has to be acknowledged that it is quite time-consuming, but I still believe that all the solutions found are in any case better than ignorance and uncertainty. I note, among other things, that the additional material of the draft can be used to familiarise you with the entire official process of negotiations and discussions, which began in November 2015 with the participation of the Riigikogu Cultural Commission and partners. As we know, the most important fundamental amendment of the draft is that, when the private school law, the Youth Work Act and the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act are adopted as a law, the cost of operating private schools, i.e. the maintenance costs of the school building, will become optional for the local government from 2017. In addition, in the event of the entry into force of the Act, the municipality is involved in the process of setting up private schools by asking for an opinion before granting a training permit to a new private school. The second substantive change compared to the previous law is the introduction of a transitional period from 2017 to the end of 2019. During this period, private schools are financed from the state budget in addition to the payment of the salaries of pedagogical staff, it is also supported to cover the operating costs of schools. Precise percentages and amounts have already been mentioned from this remote control several times, I repeat over the overall amounts. The state operating grant to private schools for the transitional period until 2019 is 75% of the average operating grant for the school's location, amounting to EUR 15 million. The grant varies from one municipality to another, but does not exceed 87 euros per student per month. I sincerely hope that during the transitional period, municipalities will voluntarily support private schools with the remaining 25%, but after this period already full-scale in the case of operating grants, recognising the role of private schools in a single school network. It is this knowledge that the conditions for setting up and operating private schools must be taken into account in the future. The conditions for setting up private schools and receiving state budget support should also be analysed in the future in order to ensure the normal functioning of the entire national school network. Interested parties will receive more factual information from the draft text, so I will draw the audience's attention to some emotional aspects. Private schools, as well as municipalities, need to be given time to adapt to the new situation. Changes in the payment of grants mean that private schools need to re-evaluate the current development plan. Decisions must be made to find other sources of income, reduce the costs of study conditions, raise tuition fees or find other solutions to ensure the sustainability of the school. Municipalities must take into account, inter alia, changes in the organisation of administrative-territorial education in the near future. We just passed a law on this. Therefore, I think it is reasonable to introduce a transitional period of three years during which private schools already established can organise their activities in cooperation with the local authorities and to have confidence that they will be able to survive. The parents'expectation that there would be small classes and that their children's interests and special needs would be taken into account at school is understandable. Children with special educational needs, also lighter drivers, need to be approached more comprehensively so that the only choice for such families is not a private school. The issue of special needs must be dealt with in a complex way, because it is a matter of great concern for parents. More flexible solutions must also be sought in municipal schools, and the needs of children in particular must be taken into account, not the ownership of the school. It is very important to provide families with the most understandable information on the policies of the school in their place of residence and the possibility for parents to speak on issues related to school development and other issues. Substantial differences in the educational and educational activities of municipal schools from the curriculum differences of private schools are not as great as the parents have been impressed. Municipal schools often offer the same methods and approaches as private schools. We have a lot of very good municipal schools. They employ experts in their field, experienced educators. Personally, I think complaining about the fact that teachers have an average age of 47 years and above that, i.e. too high, is not right. People of this age are experienced, experienced, patient and certainly not old. Therefore, the best way to contribute to the implementation of experience should be to use retired pedagogues as assistant teachers. Finally, instead of confrontation and distrust, more cooperation is needed between schools with different forms of ownership, on a vertical level. There should also be better integration at horizontal level, from early childhood education to vocational and higher education. Good experiences to bring out the best abilities of each child, each student, are shared and taken over by private schools and municipal schools. I thank all my fellow Members from the Committee on Culture, both officials and politicians very much. We did not have a sharp line in the Commission or a gap between the opposition and the coalition. We took advantage of the human and professional experience of all the Members of the Commission to find the best solution when dealing with a complex subject. The Reform Party Group supports the draft and calls on everyone to vote in favour of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U54	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Mailis Reps Centre Party, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! It was only a few years ago that the amendments to the Private School Act had a fair purpose, at least that's how they talked about the remote. The goal was to treat all children equally. The whole discussion started after the discussion about the settlement of local governments. It was found that if a child goes to another comprehensive school of local government, settlement should not take place in this form, since he or she has his or her own school. However, as a result of the long discussion of the Committee on Culture, not in this, but in the previous and previous compositions of the Riigikogu, it was still decided that settlement in this form would remain valid. Moreover, it was found that if a child goes to a private school and there is no settlement, this is not justified. This was also the result of amendments supported by the Minister of Education, both as a representative of the coalition at the time and as a representative of the Government of the Republic. The dispute therefore concerned relations between local authorities and private schools. The dispute reached the Supreme Court of the Riigikogu, where it was found that the state cannot impose an obligation on local governments to treat children both in private schools and in municipal schools on exactly the same basis, giving the part of the so-called settlement or maintenance obligation of the schoolhouse. Moreover, it was found that, in this form, private education cannot be linked at all to the local government as far as the rest of the education is concerned, in municipal schools. There are many issues that can only be resolved by the state. We therefore reached the draft we are debating today, where it was necessary to clarify the relations between local authorities, municipal education, private education and the state. Unexpectedly, however, all of us were not followed by a debate on how to make private education more similar to the rest of the education, more accessible, more accessible, but about private schools, community schools, schools born on the initiative of parents and municipal schools as if they were opposed. Moreover, the argument pointed out that if there were no private schools, the pay of teachers would be significantly higher. This reminds us of the same lie that was made just a few years ago that if there were no logos in school, the pay of teachers would still be much higher. I'm sorry, but both of these claims have proved wrong. Private schools are not the reason why teachers' pay is low, private schools have been an integral part of Estonian education for almost 30 years today. For almost 30 years, we have realised that private schools have offered something that we have not been able to offer at times in traditional schools. Just a few years ago, there was a huge social dispute about what to do in schools with Christian teaching and religious teaching. The Ministry of the Interior developed curricula with broad support. Many schools began a broad - based religious teaching. Then another wave came, saying that it would be more practical if Christian schools worked under the name of private schools. Why not? There are schools like that for today. What has become of the bill today on the basis of this dispute? We agree that private education is part of the school network. We agree that there are issues surrounding private education. How can better access to private education? If the state finances private schools, i.e. the taxpayer finances them through the municipality or directly by the State, how could this be done on a more equal footing? Could these schools be free of tuition fees at all, or could there be a ceiling on the tuition fees? How could this school be a part of a school network so that parents living in a local government whose children do not go to school would feel that nothing is taken away from them? But these questions cannot be resolved in this bill. That is the reason for all of us who are performing on this board to agree that we are not finishing this chapter now, but that we are simply going forward with this chapter in the Committee on Culture. Another thing that may be most painful about this bill is the word 'compromise'. There are two very important comments that I, as a representative of the opposition, am obliged to make. Firstly, we politicians constantly forget that the school year does not start on 1 January. This is not the first draft we are making major changes in the middle of the school year. The school year starts September 1st. It would be better for the amendments to enter into force from 1 August, and even better if they entered into force from 1 June, because everyone who is involved in the school knows that from this point on there will be contracts of employment with teachers for the following year. So the changes may take place on 1 January, when they will be implemented from September next year. The second and perhaps even more important question is that we are bringing in new concepts, such as this time the EHIS data set. But actually, we all know in this Chamber that these data are not yet accurate. We could all admit together that there was a compromise, but how does this law actually apply, that we do not yet know. That is why I dare say that we had a consensus that there were many issues around private education that we need to resolve together, that we had a consensus that this education was an integral part of the school network, but how to go forward and find constructive solutions, here we still have quite a lot to look for. Finally, I can say, as I said at second reading, that the Centre Party Group is opposed to the draft proposed in this form, but we are pleased that, for a long time, we will see clearly the initiative of parents in education. They want to have the best say in their children's education, and in fact they are the only ones who won this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U56	Thank you. Priit Sibul on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association supports the amendment of the Private School Act. But we're not doing it with a very light heart. This is because the compromise discussed for six months, which has been passionately debated, does not provide a long-term and final solution to the financing of private schools. However, it is important that this compromise gives private schools, at least for the next three years, an opportunity to take account of something. The discussion around this bill was a door to a much bigger world than anyone could have imagined. The private school door opened a broader picture of the content of education as well as the educational network. During this discussion it became clear that there are different educational methods and value systems within which a person can become educated. Each and every one of them has its own place. Now there is the question of how much we are capable of, what can be paid off from taxpayers' funds and what must be paid for by man himself. The most important thing, in my opinion, is that the IRL stands for diversity, for alternatives and for the opportunity to choose in the field of education. The fact that there are choices at all makes it possible to make these choices. This freedom alone is a value that it is important to stand up for. Our goal was for children to be on one stick from the point of view of the taxpayer, regardless of who the school owner is. Regardless of which way the tax money would end up in the school, it must be the same without distinguishing between the child or the school owner. The discussion about private education should make each of us ask why it is being done, what problems are being seen in the system and how we can solve them together. After all, it cannot be possible for a faction of parents to stand only for having the right to pay extra for private education. If a little of this 'education' door is opened, we will see very quickly that there is room for different value areas and different methodologies, mainly in private schools. But not only, many municipal schools are unique. The more time goes on, the more these differences draw out. As we know, learning is possible for all those who want to learn, including different education systems, schools and communities. Today we are formalising a compromise for three years, which was achieved as a result of a political agreement. For the next three years, as has been said, private schools will receive 75% of the average operating grant for local government schools, but no more than 87 euros per month per student. Are we satisfied with that? A compromise is a solution that will never satisfy either party. What I think went wrong is that the ministry and the minister have not yet been able to understand the role of private schools and private education in the educational landscape. Education money is still not related to the child. It can't stay that way. We have to work without taking a break, just like they told me before. The current truce is running out very quickly. Finally, I would like to thank the active parents, cultural people and communities, who not only stood up for their own interests, but also helped to understand what was happening in the educational landscape of Estonia. I am convinced that this is the beginning of an important series of changes, not just in private schools. The whole education system becomes more diverse in content and the educational network becomes more affordable. We'll get the right data in the EHIS, we'll find out with Praxis and the Ministry of Education and Research what the actual cost per student, including real investments. In this way, we can design a diverse education system that we can sustain. I hope that we will also have a equally substantive and passionate debate in the next educational discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U58	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U59	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The main criticisms of this draft have already been expressed at first and second readings from this very point of view. But there are a few things I'd like to repeat and clarify. First of all, we are very affected by the fact that Estonian children are actually treated unequally. All these totally cynical lies about how private schools are paid or overpaid have led to a situation where these same private school children or rather their parents pay double. It's a very bad policy. We know why such a policy is being pursued. This is done in order to squeeze money out of certain people and put the country's tasks on people. Another very important thing that must be said and said by the previous speakers is that the fight is not just about money, but is clearly ideological. We understand that statisticians and cultural Marxists who would like to make educational institutions brainwashing institutions want to make the education system uniform and to take ideological control. For this purpose, national controls are as strong as possible, including by means of levers of money. All of this is understandable in the case of sots. Why the same policy is driven by the liberal Reform Party is somewhat incomprehensible. This is only understandable when we realise that the Reform Party is not a liberal party, but is also a static or state-centred and centralized party. This legislative amendment, which we are voting on, is firstly a bad compromise, because it implements the amendment that some parents have to pay for their children's education both through taxes and directly. Secondly, it means pushing the problem into the future, which will only solve the problem for the next three years. I would like to draw attention to what we also drew attention to in the debate on the previous draft. The representative of our group said that the situation could be quite different during the next elections. It is not bad if one of the central themes of the 2019 Riigikogu elections is to stand up for the diversity of education. On these issues, political parties have chosen a side very clearly. We are absolutely certain that the current government coalition has chosen the wrong side and the voters will punish him for it. We cannot vote in favour of this bill because it is led by the wrong ideology, it is implementing the wrong practice, and it is restrictive of the rights of parents in the sense that the opportunity for parents to choose their children's education and education can be damaged. This bill gives too much power to the central authority and makes schools and schooling manageable, inter alia ideologically, through so-called stalling. There's gotta be a fight against that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U60	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U61	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! I think that school and education are an area where we should not introduce politics. We should talk about education as the life of our country and of the life of the Estonian people at all without tagging. The Estonian Free Party supports and commends schools born in private initiative for all the activities they have undertaken, as the private initiative gives every child the opportunity to receive the kind of education that suits him or her. That's all that matters. Secondly, a school born from a private initiative also gives a slightly different opportunity to a teacher, perhaps to look at the entire teaching system and school lesson from a slightly different angle. A school born from a private initiative also means strengthening civil society. It is an opportunity for parents to participate in and contribute to their work, money and time. We are very sorry that a number of lies, legends and myths were presented to the public during the interim debate and discussion, which really lasted six months. It was also tried to mislead the figures. The children, as well as the private schools and teachers there, were hit. It's a real shame. We shouldn't have let that happen. This certainly also happened as a result of the failure to completely avoid policy in all this educational discourse. If the Free Party Group says today that we are free to vote, we are not voting against this draft, it is not that we are approving this draft act as the only possible solution. This bill is incomplete, it offers incomplete solutions, but it also has its strengths. For the first time, private schools are truly part of the school network. The wisdom of the local governments and the need for the state to interpret education as a whole ensure that we really have unity school education on the one hand and inclusive education on the other. Second, children with special needs. Their ability to receive support by studying in private schools will be extended until 2023. There's more confidence here. Third, operating grants. It is true that this is 75% of the average cost of a local government's school place, but it provides an opportunity to go into the whole education financing system with discussion. After all, we cannot allow one small part of the education system to be organized, despite the whole picture. Each child deserves taxpayers' money to finance his or her education equally with others. For this great goal, we are ready and willing to move forward together, because there is no other way. I am also referring to Mark Soosaar here, the right democracy, is always ready for cooperation at a time when cooperation brings more benefits and benefits than even a very sincere fight against it. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is not perfect, but this bill gives us the opportunity to move forward with this whole big issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U62	There are no more requests for negotiation. A final vote will follow. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Private School Act, the Youth Work Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act 142, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 61), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 27 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention. The Act amending the Private School Act, the Youth Work Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-07_U63	The third reading of the draft Act 171 on the amendment of the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws begins. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft law 171 on the amendment of the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed and no one abstained. The Act amending the State Assets Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted. Have a good day. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.14 p.m.
