ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! Currently 44 members of the Riigikogu participate in Question Time and there are no 57 members. Members of the Government Question Time: Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna, Minister for the Interior Hanno Pevkur. I will give you the opportunity to ask one more question for each of the main issues, as the number of questioners is 9.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U2	The first questioner we have today is Arno Bridge and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We know that at this point in time we have a very difficult situation in agriculture, especially in milk production and pig farming. You yourself have also stressed that the focus of the government must be primarily on economic problems. As agriculture is also an industry, we want to know what priority options and instruments will be offered in our future budget to bring agriculture out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U4	I agree that the situation of pig farmers is very difficult due to swine fever. The collapse of the Russian market and the imposition of sanctions by Russia on European Union farmers, while the fall in Chinese demand and many other factors stemming from the international market situation have once again made the situation of dairy farmers very difficult. Indeed, these are two specific agricultural sectors, where the country needs to consider very carefully whether it is possible to help these sectors through state subsidies or by opening up new markets so that they can survive the crisis. If we look at the budget as a whole, we have final data on the 2016 budget, and the 2017 budget is known to be discussed by the Riigikogu only in the autumn. But in this year's budget, we have EUR 311 million for agricultural subsidies, including fisheries subsidies. The main part of it goes to agriculture. These are very large sums of money. If we look at how much emergency crisis aid we have given to pig farmers, both this year and last year, this amount is just over EUR 30 million. As far as the budget for next year is concerned, I can say so much that we have booked the state budget strategy, which is not the final budget document, but what is the government's plan on which the budget will be drawn up and, hopefully, adopted in Parliament, specifically for the 'top-up' of the dairy sector, EUR 4.6 million. This will then be additional support in addition to existing grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U5	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U6	I'll specify the question. You just said that over 4 million are planned for top-up. But we know that up to 20 million can be set aside for top-up. What's behind it? This $4 million will certainly not save our milk production; it is too little.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U7	We could accept a couple of things together. Firstly, that emergency crisis assistance is needed by the dairy sector and pig farming, and secondly, that every taxpayer's euro must be used very prudently and that taxpayers' money must be channelled into those sectors where crisis assistance is really needed. Unfortunately, it is not possible to pay the top-up to pig farmers and there will be 8.49 million next year for the transitional support for the dairy sector, the so-called top-up. This is the absolute maximum that can be paid. Over half of this amount has been booked by the government in the country's budget strategy, and we also want to pay it out. Top-up has very strict rules. In the last few years, when we have paid for crisis assistance, we have done so through other measures, because then we have had more free hands to help precisely those sectors that we have wanted. I would like to stress once again that the top-up rules do not provide for the state to be able to help pig farmers with top-ups. There are very clear limits to how much can be allocated to farmers for transitional support, how much, for example, for hayseed growers, how much for suckler cow farmers and ewe farmers, etc. As has been said, the absolute maximum of transitional support for milk producers is just under 8.5 million, of which 4.6 million have already been booked by the government in the budget strategy for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U8	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! It seems to me that the Republic of Estonia does not have enough money to bring agriculture out of the crisis. Looking at what has been the result of the sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia, to which Russia has responded with its own embargo, it seems to me that the Estonian farmer is one of the biggest victims as a result of these sanctions. Would it not at least be possible to consider asking the European Union for help? Explain the situation and ask for emergency financial assistance to Estonian farmers in connection with the European Union sanctions and the Russian embargo? I think that this scheme is well understood by Brussels.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U10	As far as the solidarity of the European Union with Estonia is concerned, it would be quite inappropriate for agriculture to claim that other Europe is not solidarity with us. During the seven-year period, the European Union will pay an amount of EUR 2 billion for rural and agricultural support in Estonia. That's a lot of money. Of course, this will be complemented by some one-off or non-envelope emergency support. I would like to remind you that the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, and his Latvian and Lithuanian colleague, stood last autumn in Brussels for emergency emergency aid to be paid in connection with the swine plague. This brought Estonia 7.5 million euros of additional money from the European Union. This amount was not included in the 2 billion that had already been accounted for to us, and to which the Estonian government added another 7.5 million euros of its own or, rather, of the Estonian taxpayer's money. So there have also been such one-off crisis allocations from the European Union. But mostly all of the European Union's solidarity in the field of agriculture is planned with a seven-year financial perspective. It is right, as you said, that Russia has imposed sanctions against food products in the European Union. This is Russia's decision, just as Russia's decision has been to attack an independent Ukrainian state. But it is also clear that not only Estonian and European farmers are losing it, but also the Russian people are actually losing very much, because they cannot consume high-quality Estonian and other European food products.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U12	The next question is for Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, My question concerns what is happening around the newly prepared border guard cordon in Piusa. Behind the Piusa border guard fence is a two-storey apartment building that monitors the activities of border guards. It is known that information about border control activities and movements has been passed on to smugglers. What has been done to stop such surveillance? Why hasn't this house been disposed of? And there's another house 150 to 200 meters from there that's probably developing the same kind of activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U14	Thank you for your question. If you take the map, there's a whole lot of properties and houses around there. And if we take defence objects at all, there's actually quite a lot of property around them. In the city of Tallinn, both the Information Board and the Defence Police Department have private owners' properties and apartments in their immediate neighbourhood. What do they do there? We do not need to give priority to what is done on neighbouring immovables, but to what we do on our property. We must take into account that we have neighbours, and the existence of these neighbours must be taken into account in our activities. Of course, if we detect anything illegal in the neighbourhood, whether it is illegal surveillance or otherwise violated Estonian legislation, then the police have the right to intervene. Ideally, it would be good to have state-owned properties in the immediate vicinity of the Piusa Kordon, which will be opened on 3 June. That would mean that there are two options. Either (a) we just make an offer to people that we want to buy your apartment, or (b) we're going for expropriation. At the moment, we have not seen a direct chance and right to expropriate. So we'd rather see how we act in the cordon. The Piusa cordon itself is not a secret object. Everyone knows where Piusa's cordon is, and traveling in and out of it is also traceable from a neighborhood apartment building. It's possible to watch border patrols go out on the road. But that certainly hasn't stopped our work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U15	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This is still a security threat. Is there a plan that you may have touched a little bit of what to do in the future so that such monitoring can be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U17	What we're doing to prevent surveillance is part of police tactics, and it's definitely being used. As far as ownership is concerned, property is a little more complicated. Ownership cannot simply be taken away from people in Estonia. As I said, both Piusa Kordon and other very many Estonian national defence objects are located right next to some private property. In the longer term, of course, the purchase of a property in the immediate vicinity of the Piusa cordon may be considered. This is the case, for example, when there is a need to expand the Piusa cordon. Hopefully, we do not have that need right now. The needs we have there now, we have been able to ensure, and I believe that we can also guarantee the needs of the future. But we need to plan our operational tactics, above all, so that our actions are not damaged. And as I said, you don't need to live on that property in the immediate vicinity of the cordon to find out when the patrol is leaving the Piusa cordon. Patrol's on a road 200 meters away. You're standing on the road and you're looking exactly the same way they drove out. It is no secret, in itself, that patrols are flying out of Piusa's cordon. Rather, the secret is what they do after they leave and what their tactics are. Of course, everything that is happening inside the Piusa cordon is carefully controlled and guarded by the Elik Piusa cordon will also be one of the support points for electronic border guards.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U18	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! First of all, I would like to congratulate the PBA on the fact that the PBGB has done very well with the whole merger and that the border guard in Estonia is probably in a better position than ever before. But the development of the Estonian border also ties in with this topic. Maybe you'll talk about it in a few words? I understand you can't go into the details, but what good line do we actually get to Estonia because of this project that we're working on right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U20	In short, we get a good line. So much can I say in public that the construction of our border and the border plan, when we talk about the border line, or 10 meters, will have the maximum coverage that concerns all possible border crossings. Elik, if we're coming from Russia, this blueprint can be painted peacefully here. When Russia starts coming, it is first 2.5 meters away or even before the animal garden, then there is a border post 2.5 meters from the border line, then there will be a trail and where you need to go, a fence that is 2.5 to 3 meters high, then there will be a patrol track and then everything else. There will be sensor solutions on the trackbar, the technical nuances of which I will not introduce in this hall, but the sensor solution will be according to what the public procurement offers us, both as a camera solution and with sensors that affect the ground. Every border crossing will be identified after the border has been completed and, as we know, we will also be able to identify whether an animal or man comes across the border and whether this person carries something with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U22	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! We have learned once again from your press office that for the Prime Minister, administrative reform is still a priority and you agree with anyone to discuss it. Unfortunately, you did not make it to the Central Party Group meeting today. But let us hope that we begin this debate here. We would have liked to ask you first, and I am asking you this now, that if we look at the blank document that has been brought into this hall under the name of the draft law on administrative reform, we will see that the 18 legislative amendments that should give the actual content of the administrative reform will come later. They have not yet reached the coordination circle. Can you explain why they haven't reached the hall and not the coordination circle?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U24	First of all, as regards talking about administrative reform and answering questions, I assure Parliament here once again that I am ready to answer all your questions. I have done so from this very point of the Riigikogu quite recently, where almost all members of the Riigikogu took the opportunity to ask questions and received an answer. I have met more than a hundred local government leaders and hundreds of people from all over Estonia to discuss this issue. This is a very important issue for people now, and on the basis of these meetings, I can say that people are looking forward to administrative reform. People believe that administrative reform brings better public services throughout Estonia. I am therefore sure that this reform, which has been planned for some 20 years, will really happen now. This confidence is also reinforced by the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been discussing these issues for many days, by a very large number of and very different details, and by the Commission's common positions. As far as the timetable for reform is concerned, the government hopes that Parliament will be able to adopt this main framework law on administrative reform before Midsummer this summer. Indeed, this will be followed by a number of other pieces of legislation, all of which will contribute to administrative reform. We have a specific timetable for each of these things, most of them have passed through the intention of being developed and those that require the amendment of the law will certainly come to Parliament in the autumn season to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U25	Mailis Reps, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, we are aware of the timetable on the basis of this draft, but there are many questions about the content. Now that we are looking at one aspect of this reform, it is clear that municipalities should also have sufficient funding to carry out their tasks. This means, in our opinion, that the local government receives a fair amount of income tax, equalisation fund and road money. However, if we look at the country's fiscal strategy, we will see that the share of income tax is only increasing thanks to higher income tax revenues, the fine-tuning fund is not growing and road money is not even dependent on fuel excise duties. Do you really think that joining two or three poor municipalities will improve the quality of services provided to local people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U27	Yes, the merger of municipalities certainly improves the opportunities to provide high-quality services. But I have good news for you. In addition to the figures that you have identified in the country's budget strategy, and this money is not limited, the increase in income tax receipts alone will in fact amount to around half a billion euros over the next four years. This means extra money for municipalities, and it is not so little. But if we look at the additional decisions of the RES, in addition to previous decisions, we will add approximately 190 million euros to the municipalities in total over four years. This includes an overall revenue base that will increase by EUR 15 million in 2019 and by EUR 25 million in 2020 compared to this year. In addition, we have decided that we will allocate an additional EUR 5.7 million to the municipal income base in 2017 and at least another EUR 14.25 million each year for the following years to increase access to youth interest activities. In addition, we have decided to allocate EUR 2.2 million to local authorities for the development of waste management and EUR 1.3 million for road storage facilities. In itself, we have agreed to further increase funding for local roads. Out of the CO2 quota money, approximately EUR 14 million will be allocated to municipal day-care centres and nursing homes, as well as EUR 12 million to local authorities, in order to increase energy savings. As part of the administrative reform, we have booked EUR 65 million for the RES. Jne, et cetera. Further examples can be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U28	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U29	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! We have a lot of ministers visiting the group to discuss matters. We invited you, too, and your rejection really seemed like a message that your side didn't want to cooperate. If I look at this development of administrative reform now, I can see that, in fact, each of the ministers is dealing with their own affairs. One deals with tightening health care, the other with social services, the third with a school network. Should we not look at the whole network, the whole picture, and put these reforms on top of each other so that we can see where it is best to set the centre? At present, only the number of inhabitants is a criterion, and the undertaking really seems to be a coercion. It seems to me that, as in previous reforms, for example, the capacity for work reform, we are going to be able to continue and then we will start to think about the content.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U30	If the Centre Party Group is ready for cooperation, then of course the Government is also ready for cooperation. But this readiness may seem a little hypocritical, because before the invitation reached me, the media announced that there would certainly be night sessions organised by the opposition. The invitation sent to me was politely answered that, at the time you proposed, the political group could come to Minister Arto Aas, who was responsible for the specific draft, but for some reason you excluded him from coming. In the invitation you sent to me, you said that when I came and explained, you would consider whether or not night sessions would come, while at the same time you had already announced, through the leadership of your group, that night sessions would come in any case. So the invitation didn't make a sincere impression to the end. But I believe that if this readiness and questions are sincere, then, for God's sake, ask these questions, and you will certainly get answers to everyone, either in the questioning or in the Question Time format, whatever. Now, those issues that you have just raised, we went through quite a bit of detail right here in this Chamber during the debate on state reform. I am absolutely convinced that it is necessary to approach all the services of the municipality, be it education, be it social welfare, be it the organisation of public transport. All these things have been analyzed. What's more, these things have been analyzed for a few decades. Now there is a fundamental question of whether we decide to draw some conclusions from these analyses and maybe even reform, or whether we want to analyse for a few more decades and hope that life will improve itself in the meantime. It is my position, and it is the government's common position, that it is now time to do this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U32	The next question is to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The second pillar of pension funds have achieved an average return of about half a percent over a period of ten years, while the fund's rate of governance is 1.21%. This means that less than one third of the total yield has gone to the money owner, the rest to the banks. Has it never occurred to the government to stand up for its own people, i.e. current and future pensioners, so that the money placed in the people's own funds and, by the way, the state's funds does not flow into the hands of the banks, but goes as expected to be in addition to people's pensions, as this pillar is intended?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U34	Good questioner! The programme of action of the Government of the Republic states the task of the Minister for Social Protection and the Minister of Finance to analyse the social and financial sustainability of national retirement pensions and to make some proposals. First of all, I want to convey the message that the current pensioners do not need to worry. The Estonian state pays and raises pensions every year and the fact is that we pay pensions directly from the state budget. However, here before you, I will state the truth that there is a need to reform the pension system. These figures, which we see against this initial analysis, indicate that our pension system is not sustainable in the long term and is primarily caused by demographic problems. Let me give you some examples. According to forecasts, if nothing changes, if we do not have more children, by 2060, to which the pension system does not have a very long time at all, our population has fallen from 1.31 million to 1.1 million. As far as the number of people of working age is concerned, it will have fallen by 32%, or 256000. At the same time, the number of people of retirement age increases by 106000, or 41%. Such figures are looking at us today and they are looking back on us for years, which means that we need to carry out a very serious analysis of the sustainability of our pension system and we need to have the courage to take the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U35	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I still want to talk about the second pillar and fund management fees. People's money must not go to the wind. According to the report, Hungary has ceased its activities because, over a period of 10 years, the funds decreased by 20% and the State covered this loss, paid the people a 20% reduction in costs. People were paid out of the funds because it was seen that the system did not justify itself. The question: can't the state intervene in any way and the law stipulate that government fees should not be so high? The Financial Supervision Authority controls the funds, but this strange activity there is now under the law. It is still a question of getting paid-up money from the fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U37	I would not only deal with the contributions from the second pillar in relation to pensions. But I fully agree with you in this respect that we must look at how, effectively, with what kind of return our second pillar pension funds are actually working, the same way as the cost of managing the funds. Indeed, between 2002 and 2015, the average yield on pension funds was 0.6%. This is certainly not satisfactory or sustainable. The fact that we keep these funds away from the minus is a great achievement in itself, but the fact that we give 400 million euros of taxpayers' money every year to pension funds has given me the question of what benefits the Estonian economy will get. In the course of this analysis, which the government is preparing, we will also consider the side of how to revive the Estonian economy, how to make this money produce as usefully as possible, so that it can also benefit people and society as a whole. I take this analysis of the pension system, as well as making proposals in a complex way. I will treat this issue as longer-term in view of the aim of making maximum use of public funds in our demographic situation. We will certainly also analyse the second pillar's productivity, investment and other such issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U38	The question to be specified by Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U39	Thank you. Good minister! I'm asking from this angle, do you consider this whole approach to be the right thing? It's a matter of attitude. The State has committed everyone born in 1983 or later to pay 2% of their salary to the second pillar, to which the State adds 4%, which comes from social tax. So 33% of the state will remain at 29%, which will go to the bond market, the stock market or some third place to invest through the second pillar. But nobody guarantees its productivity, they say there is an investment risk. Do you think it is right that we, in our democratic country, impose an obligation on a person to pay the money he has earned in one place and, at the same time, that money may be lost, but no one is responsible? Should we still repress people by obliging them to pay something somewhere, even though they do not want to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U40	In a democratic state, this pension system was once introduced in this very Chamber. This has been the decision of the same Riigikogu, the second Riigikogu. But I have thought very seriously about whether money comes from anywhere else, it comes from the Estonian economy. It is true that, indirectly, labour taxes are involved when the state pays its 4% of this part of the social tax. And if the employer and the employee pay 2% more, then in the end, this is a real burden on the Estonian economy, Estonian business. The question now is how to make the most of this money in a way that will generate revenue for people in the future. I am quite frankly saying that I am not satisfied with this return, which, between 2002 and today, is to be shown in front of us today at the end of 2015. They don't please me. And that's why we need to take this whole picture apart and draw serious conclusions. However, we do not only have to focus on second pillar contributions, the problem with our pension system is wider if we are to consider the long-term effects, particularly the effects of demographics. We had five working people per pensioner 30 years ago, now it has fallen to 3.1 people, and in 2060 there are 1.5 working people in Estonia per pensioner. We understand that this system is not sustainable in the long term in this way. So we have to look at the whole picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U42	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I will address the subject of the previous question. You said the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been working for many days. Haven't worked enough! For a long time, there has been practice here of integrating the road roll and opposition proposals. We're talking about the administrative reform law. Why are you underestimating our parliamentary procedure as coalition leader and why do we not have a proposal on the table to interrupt the second reading of the draft law today, as the government that successfully implemented reforms in previous cases has often done in Parliament? This usually only improves the bill. Why do you put the Riigikogu in a situation where questions relating to the revenue base are really unresolved and the organisation of tasks and the laws of the field do not appear to be moving from anywhere? However, we should know what comes with this framework law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U44	I have been a member of the Riigikogu longer than a member of the government, but not as long as you have. We both actually know that there is not only good practice and that it is not only polite, but it is a result of the constitution and the principle of separation of powers that the government does not take a stand on the issue of how Parliament deals with or does not deal with some drafts. Having spoken with the head of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and members of the Commission, I know that there have been long and interesting discussions. I have been told, by the way, that it has been very constructive for each other, without the camera and the microphone, that the opposition has had no fundamental, substantive disagreements compared to the coalition, that several opposition ambassadors have said in their conversation that they too consider it necessary that this reform, which was planned for 20 years, finally be carried out. But understand, as they say, we still have to do our job, and we still have to resist a little, even for the sake of fashion. All right, it's what it's like. You decide in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not I, whether the most appropriate procedural chart is this or the second. My request is, and that is also the maximum that I, as Prime Minister, can pass to the Riigikogu so that the law on administrative reform can be passed in Parliament before the warm summer. This would give local government leaders the assurance that the reform will proceed exactly as they have expected, as the government has planned. As far as procedural issues are concerned, you will probably come to an agreement, either in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or in Parliament as a whole, so that it can be done sensibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U45	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U46	Thank you, Mr President. The question to be clarified is that the coalition you run simply deepens the tendency that Estonia has that the monopoly on the design of draft laws belongs to the government, not to the Riigikogu. The faction of your Riigikogu is probably too weak and unable to do any substantial work. But I ask you that there is such a document on the website of the Ministry of Finance, such as 'Administrative Reform Debate Points in the Spring 2016', where it is written in black and white that before the draft law procedure is closed, the Ministry of Finance will submit changes to the Government of the Republic's sectoral laws to the Riigikogu. The parentheses refer to the regulation and several other aspects of the joint institutions in the COKS. Why is this promise not being fulfilled?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U47	First of all, the final vote on the draft has not yet taken place. But, as far as I know, the government's work plan has indeed agreed that during the first half of this year, these drafts that you have mentioned will also be submitted to the government. I don't have the slightest information that any of these drafts are somehow behind schedule. I understand this fundamental desire to have very long and thorough discussions in Parliament, too, and I am certainly not the one who says that Parliament should not improve the drafts. There are very few government proposals that have been adopted in exactly the same form. Parliament has always found ways to improve the drafts. But my request to you is that we do not deliberately delay. Because if there is a subject that has been thoroughly negotiated in Estonian society, then the administrative reform is one of them. Indeed, this reform has been planned for almost 20 years. All scenarios have been considered; all options have been analysed. The current reform plan has not only received the political approval of the coalition, but is largely based on their peer reviews over almost 20 years. We have worked with the local governments, we have discussed this issue, both I and many other members of the government with very different government leaders. And perhaps you in Parliament too are actually going to think that one day it will be necessary to draw a line on the measurement and start deciding.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U48	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U49	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! The need for administrative reform has been discussed in Estonia for at least 20 years. There have been a wide variety of reform programmes, though county-based, as the Reform Party has ever done, but on the basis of centres of attraction, as the IRL has done. This reform has always been blocked by the Reform Party, which has said that administrative reform can only be carried out on a voluntary basis. I ask, Mr Prime Minister, what has happened in the meantime, that the Reform Party has taken a strong step towards supporting administrative reform and has gone on a coercive path, the only criterion being the number of people in the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U50	I am convinced that if this reform is done in such a way that it really benefits local governments in providing services, it can be found not only by the support of the coalition, but, at the heart, even if political party discipline does not allow it, some opposition ambassadors support it. In itself, the word'reform' or the word 'administrative reform' is not for or against. For or against a specific plan. Now, after a very long period of preparation, at least a common understanding of the three parties has been reached, I believe that it is actually understood quite widely in society, which is precisely what administrative reform means. The aim is to reach municipalities with at least 11000 inhabitants. In law, however, we set a minimum limit of 5000 inhabitants in the municipality, and only in very few justified cases can exceptions be made to this agreement. For example, when a municipality's territory is formed by a sea island or something similar. There has also been a very thorough work over this period to define exactly what functions the municipality would be able to perform better in the future, what functions the state could rely on in the future, and so on. All of this gives the conviction that, when we finally implement this reform, in all regions of Estonia, municipalities will have both the strength and the opportunity to offer good public services to the people of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U52	The next question is also for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U53	Thank you. Prime Minister! The draft Environmental Charges Act, which was discussed by the Government at its Cabinet meeting in Narva on 3 March, has been amended several times. There are only a few points left of the original proposals. The current draft amendment to the law, which is in the information system of the Government of the Republic, has led to more questions than answers. In this regard, Prime Minister, can you concretise what is the final decision of the government on the oil shale sector and what are the concrete measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U54	For the sake of clarity, I will start by dividing environmental charges, as everyone knows, into resource charges, which are fees for the extraction of mineral resources and for the extraction of surface and groundwater, and the charges for the discharge of pollutants into external air, water, soil, and the discharge of waste. The amendment to the Environmental Charges Act, to which you referred, concerns resource charges. As a further change, energy-using minerals, or oil shale and well-degraded peat, will be distinguished from other mineral resources. While, under the current regime, resource charges for all mineral resources have been set in advance for ten years, the amendment introduces the possibility of a government regulation to set energy resource charges in line with changes in the market price per quarter. On the basis of the draft, a precise model will be prepared, with price ranges that apply quarterly rates based on market prices to oil shale and well-degraded peat. But these rates will depend on the average price of wood chips in the case of heavy fuel oil and well-degraded peat in the last quarter. Price levels are calculated and made public by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. All of this aims at mitigating resource charges in sectors where the world market price has led to very low production prices. If we follow the current price levels, we will provide a relief of 38.6 million in 2016 and 26.7 million in 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U55	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U56	Thank you. Two years ago, the Chemical Industry Association drew society's attention to the fact that the oil shale industry is clearly overpaid by environmental charges. The rapid increase in environmental charges has a negative impact on the competitiveness of the oil shale sector. As a result of the fall in the world market price for oil, all the risks assumed have materialised, while since 2006 the sector's environmental charges, and in particular the pollution charges, have been increased. Estonia is one of the two Member States of the European Union with the highest levels of environmental charges. It must also be said that so far the increase in these charges has not been justified by studies. The Ministry of the Environment is now launching an external cost study, which is expected to be completed in 2018, and the new charging system should only be in place in 2020. In this context, I have a question as to whether the government intends to freeze or reduce pollution charges until a new system is developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U57	As has been said, we want to give relief to the sector, in particular through resource charges. There is no intrinsic difference between companies in terms of the fees to be mitigated. For companies, it is important that the cost of raw materials is such that it is possible to realise its production at market prices and that losses do not increase over time, so that the low prices of oil, and currently mostly wood chips, can be overcome. As regards the decisions that were made ten years ago, or the decisions that were made a few years ago, I do not wish to justify those decisions. After all, we ourselves have made a different decision in a certain way at the moment, because we see that the sector has a difficult time and that fees need to be reduced. But if you're looking at the logic of why two years ago you might have thought that way, I think it's because then the world oil market was something quite different than it has been for the last few months. Therefore, the market situation at the time was quite different than it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U58	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U59	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Since the subject is the environment as such, I will ask you this. According to the Nature Conservation Act, private land owners are subject to conservation restrictions when managing their land. The State provides that if the landlord so wishes, the State could buy out such land. Since 2007, there is this list, 204 applications are in order. Around EUR 16 million would be needed as a matter of urgency to satisfy the sales wishes on this list. And there are probably others who would like to solve this problem in this way. The Ministry has also claimed to have proposed that this money be foreseen in the RES. Will the RES oppose landowners, or will there be a continuation of constitutional action that does not balance the interests of the State, the landowner and the protected natural object?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U60	This is where I have good news for you. Indeed, the RES, or the national budget strategy, provides an opportunity to acquire land with a somewhat higher level of conservation restrictions to the State. I can't say for certain that the RES amounts allow the whole order to be reset to zero. It is true, however, that the Minister for the Environment has stood for the allocation of these sums and, according to the state budget, we are also trying to allocate them. I guess there's a point of balance to be found. On the other hand, it is also possible for the State to sell land that it owns, but which is not necessary for the performance of the State's tasks, and the proceeds of this sale are possible, not by linking one to one, but as a principle, to use it as a means of purchasing land from private owners with conservation restrictions if private owners wish to sell them. So let's look at these things in sets. I believe that the next few years will indeed bring relief to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U62	The next question is for Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U63	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. The story has come to the public about how a bunch of illegal Iranians came to us across the Narva River, people were arrested on the Estonian side and transferred to the detention centre during the proceedings. You have repeatedly told us in this Chamber and you have also assured the public that the eastern border of Estonia is guarded and controlled. Of course, that is not the case. My main question is what the Police and Border Guard Board is supposed to do. Do we really only watch and observe when people come over and then arrest them or do our border guards still have the task of preventing border crossings, or not letting them get to Estonian territory? In that case, we do not have to deal with these cases and send people back and, in the meantime, pay for their residence here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U64	The task is clear and understandable to everyone, and the Police and Border Guard Board clearly fulfils it. Indeed, if a person is discovered at the border, the border guards will of course intervene. The border guards first try to identify the person on the spot and when the person is identified, it depends very much on what he himself says. If a person says he or she wants international protection, there is one procedure, then the line goes one way. If a person does not want international protection, he or she is usually transported to the cordon, from there to the detention centre if necessary. If border representatives meet and, for example, the Russian representative acknowledges that a person came from them and did not want international protection, the person will be sent back to the Russian side. If a person applies for international protection and his/her identity has been identified, for example, he/she has travel documents, he/she will be referred to the Vao Centre and the procedure for international protection will begin. There's definitely no misunderstanding here. As I said, if there is a reason to send a person back to Russia, it will be done. This has been done repeatedly at the border crossing points. If the person's explanation of the purpose of coming to Estonia does not correspond to the said or visa, he or she will be immediately returned from the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U65	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U66	Thank you. What you described is exactly what we read in the paper. This is something that absolutely doesn't satisfy us. So everyone who appears at the Estonian border will be admitted to Estonia and will be dealt with. I asked that if a person tries to enter the territory of Estonia somewhere in nature, across the river or across the lake or through the bush without having the right to do so, whether he would be rejected, whether he would be prevented from crossing the border. You have just said that everyone who reaches the Estonian border guards will be accepted, dealt with. But this basically means that people do not go to the border crossing point and try to cross this 'green border', because it will in any case be able to enter Estonia. Is there also an order to prevent them from entering Estonia at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U67	I believe you also understand that the border regime is such that you must not enter the border zone. If the person is still on the Russian side, of course, the Estonian border guard does not have to let him into the Estonian zone. He can say, "Stop! Here is the Estonian border and cannot enter here. ' As for the cases you mentioned, including the same case of the Narva River, the persons had already crossed the border, they were already on the territory of the Republic of Estonia and they were detained by border guards. Cases of illegal border crossings are the majority of cases where a person has already crossed the border. The border is not some barbed wire fence, as we know, the border is still in nature, but it is clearly identifiable. But most migrants, as well as ordinary mushrooms in Estonian forests, do not know that the border line or temporary control line is 2.5 metres from the border post, for example, and if the distance between border posts is 100 metres or more, it is often difficult for a person to identify where the border runs. You don't have to tell me there's no stopping us from coming over or anything like that. Once a person has entered the border zone, he has already broken the border code, and that means he needs to intervene. Whether the Estonian state power intervenes or the Russian state power intervenes, it depends on which side of the border the person is discovered on. A person can't, in theory, be on one side with one leg and the other leg on the other side, so there's a debate about which side he's on. If a person has entered the territory of one country, the state will, of course, intervene.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U68	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I'll give you a little enlightenment. While the border guard was independent, the Russian side took the Estonian border guard as an equal partner. I don't remember my experience of ever refusing to take anyone back when they went to the border together. But after you were able to demolish the border guard and hit it with the police, the Estonian border guard will no longer be taken by the Russian side as an equal partner. They think we're on the border with the police. That's why all the accidents. Our border guards will not be recognised and border crossings will not be accepted. Take note of what you've done!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U70	I don't know, Mr. Chairman, if I have to answer or just take note. I'm still gonna answer that. Mr. Kaskpeit, I'll enlighten you too. Estonia's border guard is a very significant partner for Russian border guards, and our communication with Russian border guards is as constructive as current relations between the two countries allow. The people who worked there during your time are still working at the Estonian border guard and do so with a heart and soul. They guard the Estonian border and do Estonian border guard work according to their best knowledge and skills. If you have any old memories, you have every right to have them. But believe me, the Estonian Border Guard is working! He did so when you were there in office, does now and will certainly do so in the future, when I am no longer a minister and you are no longer a member of the Riigikogu. There's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U71	Thank you, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U72	Now that the hall has become much brighter, Krista Aru can ask a question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will ask briefly and specifically. With regard to pension funds, in particular the mandatory second pillar of the pension to which the State makes substantial contributions, has the State intervened in excess of the fees charged by the fund managers or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U74	From the outset, the State has intervened in these fees, setting maximum limits. Over the years, these ceilings have been brought down, these fees and regulations have been amended and, in most cases, are more favourable to pension fund clients, i.e. pension fund holders. I believe that this may be the subject of a debate in the future. The current situation is that conservative investments are very low. This is not just the case in Estonia, but in the whole world. Partly because money prices are very cheap and deposits in some parts of the world are even at negative interest rates, some at zero interest rates. Of course, it seems that much of the return is eaten up by fees. More effective than national compulsion to do so is competition in price formation. As competition between pension fund providers increases on the Estonian market, it is possible that fees will start to decrease. I also believe that, as clients of pension funds, we all have a reason to monitor what each individual fund's turnover is like, but also to monitor what fees are charged to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U75	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Thank you, Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna! Thank you, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U76	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the plenary session on Wednesday. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? There's no wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U77	Our work yesterday was interrupted at the moment when we were discussing the draft law on the annulment of the cohabitation act initiated by 15 members of the Riigikogu 185. As a representative of the initiators, Martin Helme continued to answer questions. [[Voices from the floor: What about presence control?]] Right! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing. I'm sorry, I just scared the hell out of you that nobody gave you anything. Then let us continue the debate on Bill 185. Questions for Martin Helme. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U78	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I would now take this debate to such a question. We have repeatedly stressed that this question could be put to the people in a referendum in the sense of the idea, so that we can know exactly how many people are in favour of the law on partnership and how many people are not in favour. All speculations and polls and opinion polls in the Postimees' or Delfi's commentaries would be avoided. There has always been a debate about this, there are a certain amount of left-wingers who say that we cannot put human rights to a referendum. There are two ways to make sure these people... [[Big buzz in the hall. The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U79	One moment, please, Jaak Madison! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I think Martin Helme knows what Jaak Madison is asking, but we should all listen to this. Please, Jaak Madison, continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U80	There are two options whether these people knowingly lie and dim or how to say it, stupid, because they have not read through the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which states what human rights are. Perhaps you can comment on this and disprove these false claims? This has nothing to do with human rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U81	Thank you. There is a clear world-view gap between us and the left on the subject of the referendum. In our party's programme, there is a referendum and a public initiative that is clearly within our electoral promises. We believe that Estonian citizens must have the opportunity to initiate draft laws. For example, if 25000 citizens sign a bill, it must go to a referendum. We also believe that Estonian citizens must have the right to cancel the drafts. Let's take this same law of partnership. Let's say, for example, 25,000 people, of course, it's a matter of agreement whether this limit is 20,000 or 25,000 or a little more or less, but let's say 25,000 people sign a petition that requires the annulment of one or another of the laws adopted by the Riigikogu. Once these signatures are in place, it goes to the annulment of the bill. This would clearly be in line with § 1 of the Estonian Constitution, which says that the highest authority is exercised by the people. And the people exercise power in elections and referendums. Unfortunately, there is no mechanism in Estonia that would allow the people to initiate a referendum. The issue of the People's Initiative is also, in my view, a crucial issue for improving our political culture and reducing the gap in our society. This gap is between the prevailing layer of cream, or dominant society, and the rest of the population, and I think that this gap is obvious and very large. This gap is clearly compounded by the law of cohabitation. As regards the claim that the Cohabitation Act could be put to a referendum, of course it could and should be put to a referendum. Since this has caused so much trouble in society, the best way to stop this fight is to let the people talk. It would also put a stop to all these battles in this Chamber, where people are twisting their hands and turning their buttons, lobbying in a terrible way and reeling, who may be in the bathroom at the moment when the vote takes place, and who certainly must have come back from their assignment. The voice of the people is the voice of God. If that decision were to be taken, it should be accepted. I say frankly that if there really is a referendum in Estonia that says yes to the Cohabitation Act, if it, along with its whole application, finds the citizen's approval in a referendum, then I will raise my hands and say that it is. Just as I raised my hands up in 2004, when the referendum was held, where Estonia's accession to the European Union was decided. To this day, I find that this was not a good idea or a good decision, but I accept this decision as a decision of the people. I do not accept that the law on cohabitation has been passed in the way that it has been adopted in this Chamber. It has not been a legitimate decision. Surely one solution would be to get out of the brink and restore peace by putting this issue to a referendum. We can do this, we can come up right here with the draft referendum, but somehow I have a suspicious feeling that it will not be voted in favour in this Chamber. Because we have too many parties who are afraid to give important questions directly to the people to decide. As regards whether the state can regulate same-sex relations or whether the same-sex relationship itself is a human right or not, yes, we have a whole school of left-wings whose great ambition is to classify certain types of sexual relations as human rights. This is, of course, arbitrary behaviour and wishful thinking. Perhaps it would be appropriate to dwell on human rights here even further. Human rights in their original nature were nothing more than the protection of the citizen from state authority. If you think about the original human rights, you can go back to 1215 when Magna Carta was accepted in England and the English vassals raised protests or essentially revolts against King John, who imagined that he was above the law, or above the established traditional social agreement, which at that time could be called common law. The king found that it did not apply to him that he could act against these rules or agreements. This led the nobles to rebel, resulting in long trading. This trade was also done by force, and so, in my opinion, a document of vital importance to the Western rule of law was born, which could also be called the birth document of the rule of law, which fixed some very important principles. The first was that no man, including the king, is above the law, or all are equal before the law. Of course, at that time there were privileged classes, but also this privileged class had to be governed by rules that must be observed. That is one very important point. Of course, a number of other principles emerged from Magna Carta, which have become the cornerstone of human rights philosophy. All these principles are based on the understanding that the one against whom a person needs protection is abusing state authority. Measures against abuse of power are, in fact, human rights. We actually know about that. You must be given a fair and honest and swift trial. By the way, I find that this principle is quite often and extensively violated in Estonia. I have also said this in this Chamber a few times before, that the trial itself is often a penalty in Estonia, not a sanction imposed by a final judgment, but a process that lasts for years and is very expensive and very nervous. One of the principles of Magna Carta was that the process itself must not be a punishment, but you must receive a swift and fair trial. Magna Carta also gave birth to the principle that you are judged by the jury, or it is not a matter of one person. Besides, of course, things like that, you can't be arrested for no reason, etc. After World War II, or the middle of the last century, the philosophy of human rights really got into the wings of the wind. What were the basic principles? Still, an individual is protected from power or abuse by a group. It's a real human right. The most important rights are freedom of expression, freedom of conscience, political freedoms, you can say things that you think are right, you can gather or organize to carry these things out. These are, of course, in addition to the fact that a person has the right to life and the right to freedom. When we look at what has developed or how human rights philosophy has perverted over the last decades, we see that it has essentially become the opposite of the original idea of human rights. In essence, we do not have to protect the individual, but we do have to create some kind of rights for privileged groups, and these rights depend precisely on the discretion of the state. When we talk about the partnership law, we are talking about the creation of special rights or special protection for a group that identifies itself on the basis of their sexual behaviour, and that special protection will be enforced by the state. After all, it is the real idea of this whole law that the state is going to write to all the rest of us, what we can think about or say about one group of society. This has nothing to do with human rights, it is the most common totalitarianism. Of course, the representatives of such a philosophy do not want to allow the people to decide on this issue. Of course, someone's sexual orientation or private sexual conduct does not exist, even if he does not behave in this way, but simply has such a tendency or attraction, a human right. It just isn't! This whole philosophy is a very slippery path. Let me give you this example. We were talking here that, in the 1990s or even earlier, this "homoideology" mainstream began, followed by the provision of national recognition and regulation to homosexuals. This was followed by an equalization of homosexuality with traditional marriage in countries where this stage had been completed and by adoption rights. From there we have moved on even further. Now we see the next depths of decadence in America, where they descend. It is called gender ideology or sexiology. In the 1990s, there was parallel activity in Western Europe and North America when homoculture was mainstreamed, in the United States, but mainly in Canada, an organisation such as the North American Man/Boy Love Association, or the North American Men/Boys Association, with the clear declared aim of decriminating sexual relations between adult men and underage boys. That is, of course, provided that everyone is voluntary, or children know what's good for them when the candy man comes. It was a fully official, public-speaking organisation that appealed to human rights in exactly the same way. So any disgusting thing can, of course, be promoted under the human rights label, but sane people understand that it has nothing to do with real human rights. These real human rights, however, put the philosophy and practice of this bill at risk. These real human rights are freedom of conscience, freedom of expression, freedom of political expression, and they have been attacked by further processing or putting this law into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U82	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U83	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! How do you look at things like that? Today, there is a growing rumor that school textbooks are being rewritten and that the concept of gender and the concepts of mother, father, and family disappear from the textbooks of family education and social education. What kind of thoughts does that make you? It's really cruel for me, isn't it? And how do you interpret it, or what do we have to do? Do we have to point the finger at someone or call someone back, or what do we have to do to make sure that this doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U84	Thank you. This trend, yes, not only characterises countries where homosexual relations have been legalised or regulated some time ago, but we also see concrete examples of it in Estonia. In my opinion, this is cruelty to children. It is extraordinarily cruel to children when we see issues in the fifth-grade social education workbook, where basically children are directed to say that all relationships are equal, whether they are between men and women or between men and men, for example. Basically, ideological brainwashing is already taking place in schools. This is already happening in the Estonian education system and I am seriously concerned that the Ministry of Education either silently encourages it or in any case does not prevent it. And the background to this development is how the Minister of Education, the Reform Party Jürgen Ligi, tries to centralise the education system. The result of this centralisation is clearly also the ideology of the education system. And the prevailing ideology in Estonia today is homoideology, i.e. to equate homosexual relations with traditional relations everywhere and to show them as normal or equivalent or as good. That's how you grow other than a generation with a mess in its head. It's brutal against children, and it's trampling under parents' rights. By the way, when you come back to the previous question for a moment: parents also have the right to have a moral and moral face of their children, whether we call it a human right or some other right to check what is being taught to their children. As a parent, every morning when I send my kids to school, I have a problem with what they're taught there. I think that parents need to be very careful about what their children are taught at school, and to intervene very actively and protest when neo-Marxist reeducation is carried out on these children and homoideology is docked under the social education label. This must be countered by means of a citizens' initiative. It is clear, however, that if the power of the state favors it, the road roller will move forward quietly. It's moving quietly, but it's moving. We need the power of the state to cultivate a completely different system of values. This is part of the dispute that is going on throughout the country. The ancient Greeks knew the importance of teaching. One ancient Greek philosopher, if I remember correctly, was Aristotle, said: 'There are two important questions in the world that we need to answer. One is what we teach our children, and the other is who teaches it. " Today, in Estonia and Western countries, we see that what is taught to our children is contrary to the worldview and values of many parents. And it is taught by people who have no real understanding of world affairs, who have become totally alien and antihuman attitudes at the Red University and are now teaching them enthusiastic children. It's a very frightening trend, and it needs to be responded to. It is true that the state cultivates different values. Unfortunately, our country is now cultivating values that in the long run are disastrous to society. Immediately after the Riigikogu elections, our group received generous communication training. One professional member of the government's communication team, I do not mention the name, said that the most important thing for society is whether there is a 'pillar' or an axis that is a common value for which people want to unite and for which they are willing to stand and, if necessary, die for the state. And if you break or break down this common value or this pillar, society will be vulnerable to all the crises that may hit society, whether it be the economic crisis, the internal security crisis, the external security crisis, the demographic crisis or some other crisis. We can see how the whole discussion around the Cohabitation Act and the promotion of homoideology that is behind this law are actively, systematically and deliberately demolishing the pillar that keeps our society upright, which is traditional family values, which is patriotism, which is a common understanding of a social value. It's all being demolished, sprayed, and it's already being done in the school system. I also think it's extremely cruel. I think it violates parents' right to control or care for what their children are taught. We have to stand up to it. I think that the most effective way to resist this is to replace the government in Estonia and make sure that the Ministry of Education is led by a person who understands what culture and cultural values are, which are traditions and patriotism, and which are value-based teaching. We need to understand when we are actually given neo-marxist ideology under the name of value-based teaching. I am the kind of person who believes that schools should be given as little information as possible about how they are taught and who teaches and teaches. Parents must be given the choice of the value system that they place their children in, what they teach and how. I do not doubt for a moment that there will be schools in Estonia where there will be an honest paduliber value system and where parents will take their child in the firm conviction that this is the right thing to do. But in the same way, I am convinced that the absolute majority of Estonian parents want their children to go to school where traditional values are developed and traditional gender roles and patriotism are discussed, where men are men and women are women and that only women can be mothers and only men can be fathers. This makes society strong and such a society also survives crises, unlike a society in which all common values have been sprayed and the central pillar on which we stand is broken or broken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U85	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U86	Good manager! Good waitress! I agree with you that we live at the beginning of the homowave or somewhere in the middle and that homosexuals are relatively few in society, but they are extremely loud. Once you read Kinsey's report, you know there's nothing you can do about nature. Someone gets excited by women, somebody gets excited by men, others get excited by children, third animals, fourth dead. Would you be willing to come up with a bill on homosexuals and other sexual minorities, for example, to regulate their activities? Maybe you wouldn't talk about a family there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U87	As I said many times yesterday, I do not think there is any reason to regulate the private life of such a truly small group in any way at national level. We do not have to do this, there is no need for it, and neither do they themselves. This is not the real reason why all this ideology is being promoted and this law is being pursued. The aim is to reorganize society, and it is accompanied by an undisputed desire to force society to impose completely different values than we have been honoured so far and which most people hold dear. As far as the Kinsey report is concerned, it has been quoted a lot, but as I referred to yesterday, it has later been clearly declared as absolutely non-constructive research. Kinsey was a homosexual activist who carried out his study, especially among female and male prostitutes, prisoners and other homosexual friends, and of course he had very strange results. It's also a very old, old report, already made in the 1940s. Later, in the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s, very much more serious, more waterproof studies have been carried out, with a number of important things coming out. For example, American psychologists have come to the conclusion that, indeed, some people have a clear attraction to the same-sex side, or as you mentioned, there are a number of all sorts of strange strokes, but no study has been able to prove that this is clearly a genetic, congenital trend. Some studies have shown that people who feel sexual attraction to the same sex have some small but clear differences in brain chemistry from so-called ordinary people. But it hasn't been possible to identify or convincingly prove that brain chemistry has been this way since birth. We know that small children have no sexual behavioral control in the brain at all. This chemistry may well have arisen at a later age and very many studies suggest that the influences of the surrounding life also play a part. Studies have been carried out on one egg twins. Since single egg twins are genetically identical, there should be a one hundred percent overlap, that if one is hetero, then there is another, too, or if one is gay, then there should be another. But no such overlap has been identified. It has been found that there is a small but not significant probability that if one of the twins is homosexually prone, then there is a slightly higher percentage of the probability that his twin brother or sister is like that. It has also been pointed out here that since twins grow in the same environment mostly with the same parents and in the same growth environment, it is not possible to say whether the influence is societal, or external, or educational. But clearly, it's not genetic. I would also point out that, if it were genetic, homosexuals are not known to have children, at least not in a homosexual relationship. Yesterday we talked about the percentage of children that many have. In general, we are talking about perhaps 2% of the population with a homosexual tendency and an even smaller percentage, who also behave homosexually or whose sexual life is that. So let's think logically about how many generations it takes for such a barren gene to die out. Yet it has been with us since the beginning of time. So the theory of genes has never been confirmed. Studies have also been carried out on the persistence of homosexual tendencies. I'm going to read some results to you. American psychiatrists have studied it over the years, and Dr. Lawrence Hatterer has confirmed the following: 'I have treated 'healthily' many homosexuals. Every detective can get acquainted with my work, because it's all recorded on tape for ten years. Many of these healed patients (I prefer to use the word 'changed ') have later married, have families, live happily ever after. Once a homosexual, forever a homosexual is a destructive myth. " Nicholas Cummings, former president of the American Psychiatric Association, has also officially confirmed that he has treated over 2,000 homosexuals who wanted to change their way of life during his psychiatric work and that he knows hundreds of those who have succeeded. So it's behavior. There's one more thing to understand. We all have one or different temptations, and we all have some "personal traits" that we are fighting. There are people who have a predisposition to alcohol abuse. There are people who are predisposed either to a growing environment or for other reasons to criminal conduct. But we don't think that the state should take a favourable view of it, or that the state should legalize it, help it, pat it on the shoulder and say, well, that's what you are, what you're doing, we're still supporting you. All humans have a wicked side, and all of us must fight this wicked side. That's what makes us human, that we're not slaves to reflexes or instincts, we're free-willed people who can control their behavior. Just because we have temptations, tendencies, or tendencies of some kind does not mean that we cannot control our conduct and that we must give in to all temptations. If I gave in to all the temptations, I'd be 200 pounds because I'd only eat chocolate. The claim that these people can't help it is not true. Of course, there must be a distinction here, too, that yes, we understand that there are people who have such a tendency. But that doesn't mean they all have to live in a homosexual relationship. They don't have to, they always have the chance to live a life of so-called abstinence. There is certainly no convincing argument in the Kinsey report, which states that there is some sort of force majeure or inevitability and that there is nothing to do with it. So I stress: homosexuality is not the same thing as skin color or height or eye colour. This is not the kind of thing that we can say that we can't help it. I can still talk about a great study of the theory that there are certain differences in brain chemistry between certain people and others. Now, if I remember correctly, in Canada, but I might be wrong, maybe it was in the United States, they were experimenting with goats that used to climb on other goats. Their brain chemistry was altered by hormonal agents. And the result was that the behaviour of the goats changed, they became more interested in the female goats. We know that people can become depressed and that it is difficult to cope with it on their own. It all depends on brain chemistry. Brain chemistry is not a permanent thing; it also depends on the external environment. Much depends on what you're being invented. Here we come back to the question of which value system or behaviour model society supports and amplifies and which behavioural and value system society deplores. This is a clear world-view conflict: there is a liberal worldview that says that everything in this world is equal. This is moral lativism: what is good for some is bad for others and we must not make any judgments here. And on the other side there is, I would say, common sense, a politically conservative world view, according to which not all behaviours are equal, not all practices can be equally accepted. Society needs clear standards that are allowed and not allowed. The upbringing must be based on a set of behavioral models and it must be said that this is the right thing to do. And by the way, this is also what children really need, and not only children, but also adult people. If people know what they want from them, they are much more likely to feel better in society than if they have to figure out every day what the truth is today. In Estonia, we often hear such a mindless saying that let the child decide for himself. I'm sorry! Leaving, for example, a five - year - old child's responsibility to decide something is simply cruel and unjust. A child does not have to be held responsible for decisions that are sometimes too much for adults. And to ensure that decisions do not go too far for adults, adults must also have a clear framework that is clearly known: it is allowed, it is forbidden, it is considered right, it is considered wrong. We must have clear frames, otherwise people will be stressed. We know that in this so-called moralist world, we wake up every morning with fear that new truths will apply today. For example, what was yesterday's socially acceptable discussion is already an hate speech today. In this sense, it is extremely instructive to read Orwell's book '1984', which outspokenly describes a totalitarian society where it was simply decided overnight that whoever was the enemy yesterday was a friend today, and whoever is a friend today is the enemy tomorrow. And people need to be able to switch from a blow. But people can't easily switch over, people want to have certain values in life, certain stability. All this ideology, which is enshrined in the Law on Cohabitation and imposed on society by those who drive and lead the law on cohabitation, destroys the framework of good and bad, right and wrong in our society as a whole. Professor Ülo Vooglaid has spoken very much on this subject and said that society cannot function unless there are myths in society, no heroes, no taboos. We're beginning to try to turn certain taboos into virtues and destroy virtues with it. Because when you equalize virtue and some thing that's been tabooed so far, you take the opportunity of people to understand what's good and what's bad. And from here we get back to saying that it doesn't take away anything from anyone when same-sex people can call their relationships marriage. After all, no heterosexual marriage is harmed or humiliated in any way. Yes, it does! He basically disrupts this exclusive institution, which is designed to be the cornerstone of society's survival, which has evolved over the centuries into a structure that helps people to be faithful to each other, which helps to raise children, which guarantees the most stable, secure and loving growth environment. All of this would be demolished by identifying it with something that is the opposite of all of this. So it is not true that all of this is inevitable and inevitable. Even if he is something for many people that they cannot oppose themselves, that does not mean that society must approve of it. Moreover, society should not promote this; society should not call it the equivalent of traditional marriage, which is the real guarantor of social survival and survival, security and prosperity. Marriage is the most important social institution ever. But there is now an attack on this institution. I agree that the marriage institution has been decomposing and degressing for decades, not only in Estonia but also in Western Europe. But, in truth, our next step must not be that we decide to crush this institution once and for all, Nietzscheically saying that what falls must be pushed. In this respect, we should put our head to work and think about the steps that are needed to strengthen family and traditional marriage, to popularise and to increase its social weight. This law that we want to repeal, after all, amplifies all these trends, makes it worse, which is bad enough. There's no way we should go along with this. We have to face it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U88	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very We have two parties who are trying to push their way through with a gay road roll, even over dead bodies, you might say. These are the Social Democrats and the Reform Party. They are just as strongly supportive of mass immigration and, at the time they are being brought forward, they have also renounced the opt-out of quotas and some kind of cap. We know what is happening in Islamic countries today. Hanno Pevkur also said that the negative consequences of mass immigration will sooner or later reach Estonia. They kill gay people, throw them off the roof, rape lesbians, stone them to death. What happens when mass immigration gets here with its consequences? What happens to those who today want to be granted the right to legal marriage and the right to registration?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U90	Thank you. It is a pity that the representatives of these two parties are not here. Maybe they'll get smarter. I hope they're still watching us on TV. What you pointed out to me is, in my view, a very vivid example of the internal conflict in the extremely liberal or neo-marxist worldview. Indeed, the Netherlands, for example, has been the promised land for the supporters of the most liberal ideas. There's legalized euthanasia, there's all the rights we're trying to give right now. It is a country where there have still been streets of red lights and homoquarters and, as if, such a general society of tolerance. But now the Netherlands is one of those countries where, as a result of mass immigration, a very large percentage of the population is Muslim, and Muslims have essentially rejected the whole gay life that existed there 10 or 15 years ago with great joy. And the exact same thing has happened in Sweden, by the way. Every day they beat and sometimes they kill people who don't hide that they're gay. This is the result of mass immigration and I have not been able to find out from socialists or reformers how they intend to reconcile these two things, i.e. multiculturalism and liberal immigration policies and liberal homoideology. From the experience of other Western countries, we can say that Islam trumps all the ideas on the left. Islam trumps over feminism, Islam trumps over gay rights, Islam trumps over any other left-wing favorite themes, because multi-turalism is more important. Making society more tolerant by importing the least tolerant segment of the world's population in wild quantities is more important than the political territory that was won over the past decades in terms of tolerance. We do not yet have it in Estonia, but indeed, as Mr Pevkur said, when Muslim immigration from the most reactionary regions in the world, as is the case in North Africa and the Middle East, becomes significant in Estonia, given how small the population of Estonia is, how few people there are in Estonia, given that there are, in essence, only one or two cities in Estonia where a certain homo community holds itself openly at all, and given that the Muslim community is likely to be concentrated precisely in these larger cities, it is quite clear that this fun quarter of Tatari Street, which was written to us last week by the Estonian Express, is a disappearing phenomenon. With this in mind, I have a very sincere appeal to the Estonian homosexuals: if you have any sense in your head and if you have any self-preservation instincts, then vote for the Conservative People's Party in the next elections. Conservative People's Party is opposed to mass immigration and it is the only guarantee that you can continue to live your fun life in Estonia without fear of becoming a victim of violence on the street. We may oppose the law of cohabitation and the national regulation of homosexuality, but we do not think that homosexuals should be thrown off the roof or be beaten or stabbed on the street. We may be opposed to radical feminism with all of his twisted understanding of human nature and relationships between people, but we do not think that women should be put in a bag where only like shooting can be seen out. These paduliberals, who are now so angry with our opponents, could think a little bit and realize that the free and tolerant Western society that we now have is the most threatening and destructive of the social democrats and reform parties that allow mass immigration to take place. So, frankly, we are the gay's best friends in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U91	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, You're so familiar with it now that you're probably the greatest expert on the subject of this law. I therefore ask that there are contracts with notaries under this law and that these people may have life in accordance with them. What happens if the decision has to be annulled? There are contracts, what about those people who have signed their contracts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U93	This question also came up in the Committee on Legal Affairs when I defended this draft. I replied by pointing out first of all that there are very few contracts. I checked that at the end of April 25 notarial partnership agreements had been concluded in Estonia and less than half of them were between same-sex couples. We are told here how people do not dare to enter into agreements because we have a lack of legislative clarity. I don't think that's true. I think there has never been any real need for these contracts; it has all been a smokescreen. What happens to contracts that have been concluded in the meantime if the law is repealed? Nothing special's gonna happen. These agreements will not become null and void as a result. After all, it is common legal practice that the legal activities that have been carried out during the period of application of the law do not become lawless as a result of a change of law. These agreements will remain in force. However, for these contracts there is a clause which must be clarified by notaries at the time of the conclusion of the contracts that, in the absence of implementing acts, there are one-off and different risks involved. At the time these contracts were concluded, people were informed that certain risk scenarios existed. But once again, in the case of 25 treaties, I do not see any social bubbling or a constitutional vacuum forming here. The real truth is, however, that, just as these agreements have now been concluded without implementing acts, they can be repealed without implementing acts. For this we have the law of debt and all other laws. They'll be valid for as long as they're valid. The real problem with partnership agreements is that there is no clear mechanism for ending them. But in view of parallel understandings or some fundamental philosophy of law, it is certainly possible to cancel or invalidate them. Just now there is no clear regulation. Anyway, they don't work together at the moment the law is lifted. There is certainly no need to fear this; these agreements will not become non-existent. It is important that the situation created by our faulty or dysfunctional cohabitation law does not last longer. We should do our utmost to ensure that such laws do not become more. We should abolish the Cohabitation Act so that no more contracts are concluded under this incomplete law, because the more they are concluded, the bigger this problem will become. Our aim here now is to reduce this legal vacuum or this dysfunctional legal situation. Indeed, the 25 agreements that have now been concluded in one quarter will remain such a crime, but nothing bad will happen to them, and there will be no real substantive problem for these people. All the more so, we can be quite sure that some of these contracts have been made purely for show purposes or to prove that there is a point. I do not think that very many of these agreements are substantive agreements on the regulation of relations between people. It is probably a symbolic act for a number of contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U94	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U95	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! In the meantime, you have been able to listen to accurate information about brain activity, inclinations, and possible medications. But that's what I don't really care about right now because I've read about it, I know it pretty well. But if you take this bill, what do you do with it? Some Social Democrats have come to me and asked how you take the right to represent the majority of the people. You only have seven seats in the Riigikogu. Then I have said, for God's sake, that there will be no vote in the elections on the basis of one question. That is only one issue, and on this issue we are done with the overwhelming majority of the people. Neither do the Social Democrats have any right to speak to their 14 percent on behalf of the majority of the people and to push through laws that conflict with the wishes of the majority. What is your opinion as a waitress and as the initiator of a bill, would it be a very good gesture from the social democrats to show that they are facing the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U96	The gesture would then be to participate in the annulment of this law, I understand. As far as my colleagues and I have been talking here in one context or another, it is like a question of totem for the social democrats. That's clear. In their case, it's just so serious that you can't get over it or around it. All other issues go back to this and there is no compromise. But, in principle, the same criticism can be made against us, for us, just as it is such a fundamental question that we do not consider any compromise or compromise possible. I dare predict or assure you that no matter how long it takes us, we will end up abolishing the partnership law anyway. This law in its runt form, as it has been adopted and left incomplete, ends up in a trash can anyway, it will take us a while. Now, speaking of who represents the opinion of the people and who does not, indeed, during the previous Riigikogu elections our election percentage was slightly above 8, but because of the use of the d'Hondt method, one of our ambassadors was taken away and given to the Reform Party. But it is what it is. However, at the time of the previous election of the Riigikogu it was clear that one of the reasons why the result of the Socialist elections was significantly worse than they thought they had, or if there was a previous election result, is that they christened their members, their voters, and the Estonian public in contempt of something they had never received a mandate for, for which they had never asked their voters for a permit or a mandate and for which there had never been no support in Estonian society. In fact, this support is small, very small. On the contrary, we, of course, asked for a mandate for a whole series of things, starting with a reduction in VAT and ending with the creation of two tank battalions. But among other things, one of our central promises was the annulment of the Cohabitation Act. And on this issue, we can indeed say with satisfaction or certainty that we are facing the people on this issue. That is not the only question where we face the people. We also have this in the immigration issue, which has been much discussed here, just as we are a party that defends the views and values of the absolute majority of Estonian people in this Chamber. And there are other issues, whether or not the law on administrative reform that will soon be discussed, is certainly such. This is also being pushed through, although public opinion is against it. So when it comes to speaking on behalf of the people, of course, we must realise that there is no absolutely uniform and clear view of the people. On different issues, people are divided differently. On one issue, a little more is supported by one party, on the other a little more by the other party. But on certain very important issues, I believe that the political elite should not ignore the opinion of a very large number of people, especially if there is no need for it. The exact same can be said of some kind of euro aid packages. No political power has ever asked for permission to save other countries or the euro area with Estonian taxpayers' money in any election. Now, if you come into this hall and push it through with a roller, it's illegal first. It's not legal behavior. There is no mandate for this. Secondly, it is clearly undemocratic, i.e. it is guided by other guidelines than those obtained from its constituents. As far as the Reform Party is concerned, the Reform Party, in my opinion, has adopted, with this draft, about the kind of attitude that they have learned their lesson in the elections. That's the second time they don't want to get beat up for it. But for the sake of saving their face, they don't want to turn around and maybe disappear from this bill. This will allow this bill not to live and not to die, or be adopted without implementing legislation. That is, in their opinion, a satisfactory solution. We do not think it is statesmanly and we do not think it is correct and it is not fair to the voters of the Reform Party either. The voters of the Reform Party do not support the implementation of the Cohabitation Act. So for the Reform Party, it is not a totem or an obsession, but for them it is a political technological issue where they have chosen a different path. So I don't see them making any direct spin. If they had a little sense in their heads, they'd let it go through at first reading and stop him before the second reading, just as the law of the Free Party couple has happened. They know what they're doing. I can't tell them. But for us, it is important that this process moves forward. If it is voted out of the procedure, we will probably put it back into the procedure, with the simple knowledge that one day the political status of the stars will come, the political consensus where we are needed or we must be taken into account, and then we will abolish this law anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U97	Thank you. In answering this global question, it must be said and understood that the whole liberal, but in my opinion the purely decadent world view that is being promoted here is clearly monocultural. It is very perverse that this very monocultural ideology is promoted by people who, at the same time, are great champions and fans of multiculturalism, or the left. After all, this whole homoideology is only true in the white world, North America and Europe. In America, of course, there is a very sharp confrontation within the country, there are conservative states where it has never been supported, and there are liberal states where it has indeed found the support of the people, which has also been expressed in a referendum. Here before, there was the question of a referendum. There have been referendums in some states in America that have approved it. At the same time, referendums have taken place in other states which have repealed the laws of homo-cohesion or civil partnership. It is very important to point out that in the absolute majority of countries where it is legalised, this has taken place without the approval of the people. Last summer, the U.S. Federal Supreme Court passed a verdict that people are entitled to a same-sex partnership. In spite of the fact that, in very many states, either the State Congress or the Senate have unambiguously stipulated that marriage law is only a matter between one man and one woman, and despite the fact that the United States Congress Assembly had passed a law such as the Defence of Marriage Act, in the end nine Supreme Judges of the United States decided that they were smarter and that they had more power than hundreds of millions of American citizens and 5: 4 votes, or ultimately five people were rolled over the democratic powers of the entire nation. This is a typical example of how homoideology is applied in Western countries. This is done by the will of the people, not by the will of the people, or even by the will of the people. This, by the way, has also happened in many parts of Europe. We know how, in both Italy and France and Spain, millions of people have been on the streets to defend traditional marriages, but as soon as the left-wing parties are in power, they have legalised same-sex relations by regulating them nationally. Surely it must be taken into account that this has been done in disregard of the wishes of the majority of the people, i.e. undemocratically. The aims of the homosexual movement have always been compared, for example, to the fight against slavery in America in the 19th century, or to giving women the right to vote in the early 20th century. There is a very important, very fundamental distinction. Neither the cessation of slavery nor the voting rights of women were done in courts or parliaments against the will of the people. Slavery was stopped in the United States as a result of a legislative, democratic process when those people who opposed slavery argued so convincingly in the public debate that they won. First, they won this argument and then won the election and abolished the laws that allowed slavery. The same applies to giving women the right to vote. This was not against the will of the people, but was clearly part of a democratic process. In many countries there was also a referendum on this issue, in which only the men who decided whether or not women would have the right to vote took part. These men were open to arguments, they became convinced of this political discussion, which at times was very acute, and as a result of the whole process they reached such a political decision. None of this has happened anywhere in the violation of homosexual rights in the Code. I'll come back to the way it is in the rest of the world. Once again, it's purely a private fun of the white world. Nowhere else in the world is dealing with such things. Yesterday I was talking about Africa. Okay, maybe I'm not a cartoon singer, I don't think all cultures are the same. I think that Christian, European culture is better and closer to my heart than any other culture. But I do not think that we should export our decadence to other parts of the world, such as going back to the previous question, many Western countries are now practicing. The United States' foreign policy priority No 1 was combating homosexual rights in other parts of the world during Hillary Clinton, not combating terrorism, not promoting the global economy or ensuring security in its allies or anything. The United States' foreign policy priority in the Obama era has been, firstly, combating homo rights, secondly, combating climate warming, which is another absurdity because the climate is not warming. But that's another argument. So it's clearly western. Let's put a couple of important facts on this background, either they exist in parallel or one of them causes another, it's hard to understand. I wonder which is the cause or the consequences of these separate tendencies, but at the same time as the moral decline accompanied by the spread of homoideology in Western countries, the demographic crisis in the Western world is getting worse. A sharp decrease in the birth rate has been associated with the destruction or breakdown or decline of a marriage institution. Almost all so-called white countries are aging fast, the natural growth is negative. Our task, as we approach the matter with common sense, should not be to amplify or aggravate these problems, or to make it worse by giving chapel matrimony to an institution and a normal heterosexual family, a core family. Our task should be to think about how to restore social institutions that are directly linked to population regeneration in the normal way so that this free, prosperous and open society, which we are all happy to consume, continues. It is now clear that it cannot go on. Whether it ends in a hundred years or sooner or later, I don't know, but it can't go on. The moral collapse that has taken place in the Western world cannot end with anything other than economic, demographic and security collapse. We are already seeing these signs clearly in the context of mass migration in Europe. So this is all one big bunch of problems. The only country in the world where, like the Western world, birth rates have decreased very rapidly is China, which is clearly a totalitarian country. China's one-child policy, which began, if I remember correctly, during Mao Zedong in 1971 or 1972, has now been abolished, because China is equally struggling with its demographic situation. Population growth has clearly slowed and they are faced with the fact that the population will soon start to shrink. Demographically, it can be predicted that somewhere in the 2030s, China's population will reach its ceiling and then the population will start to decline and grow old. That means China will grow old before it becomes rich. This is unlike Europe, which first became rich and then has grown old. But in China, no one thinks of anything like creating a cohabitation law, not to mention other countries like this. It's unthinkable. There is, of course, another important aspect here. We may ask again whether this is a cause or a consequence, or whether these are two separate phenomena. But demographic collapse or collapse and moral collapse in the Western world have taken place in parallel with the fact that the so-called white world is the only part of a world where religion has lost its role in social life. In any other part of the world, whether in Africa or Asia or South America, religion has not disappeared from social life in the same way as in Europe. People are arguing about whether one of them makes the other or the other one makes the first, or whether they are things that are unconnected. But we can say that in countries where people do not have faith and where people no longer have a moral foundation, there is a triumph of nonsense, perversion and decadence, and there is an ageing and decline of the population. If we want to continue as a nation, we should focus on figuring out how to reverse these trends, how to bring about a moral rebirth in Estonia, how to achieve the strengthening of the family and how to create the conditions for the rebirth of the population. We must not try to make things worse with things such as the law of partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U98	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U99	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! The joint fight between the Centre Party and the EKRE is behind this draft. We know very well that 90% of the Russian community supports our joint initiative and two thirds of the Estonian community. Does it seem to you that the current government, under the leadership of the Reform Party, deliberately divides society or that it is unintentional to split up?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U100	Thank you. It is difficult to see something random in this activity or conduct that has resulted in the passing of the Cohabitation Act. There's no way I can think that what's going on around the cohabitation law is random. It's a very purposeful, very conscious, very calculated activity. Of course, I cannot answer for them how much they have calculated all social aspects. It seems to me that the current government does not care how it seems to residents of other nationalities living in Estonia or how it reminds them. In a completely cold stomach, they spit in the face of their own people, Estonians, so there is no question of spitting on the Russians' face in the same way. That's what we've been complaining all along that this bill has never really been needed. Yet, there has been an enormous amount of energy and time spent on it, debate has been held, and society has been divided. This bill has very serious consequences, it has divided society, and it has divided different social groups. It is completely incomprehensible why all this has been necessary. Me and the other members of our party have been contacted and asked what you are messing with this subject, it has long bored everyone. Yeah, of course it's been a long time. It's bored us too. We do not need to deal with such a question; we would rather deal with other issues rather than the economy, demography, defence, regional development. But as I have tried to explain again and again today: society will not stand together unless it has a foundation of certain values, unless it has agreed common values, unless it has a'moral pillar' or a backbone. All this cohabitation law and the ideology and political rhetoric that underpins it will demolish society. We cannot accept this dismantling, we must oppose this dismantling, we must try to correct the consequences of the demolition work that has been carried out so far. It's not easy, it's made so big. But this correction begins with the deletion of this law from the list of laws, which is the cause of so-called damage. We will start by going back to a situation that was prior to the adoption of the Cohabitation Act. That's where we can start. It is not yet compensated for damage or improved society, but it is the first step. As long as this law is in force, this fight will continue, these gaps will persist in society, and this 'acceptance' is not possible. So it is my call to everyone that, if you are sick of this issue, we will abolish this law and move on with Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U101	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U102	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I ask if you are aware that we are going against the positions of the United States of America, especially the White House, by repealing the Cohabitation Act. As we know, before the adoption of this law, the Ambassador of the United States met with the Estonian Council of Churches and reportedly announced how the Estonian parliament and the Estonian state should behave there. And just today, the archbishop who met us confirmed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U103	Thank you. The thing is, neither I nor you can choose the President of the United States. We cannot participate in American political discussions; we cannot decide which laws will be passed by the United States Congress. I can't, that's all. And I'm really glad I can't. America is America and Estonia is Estonia. In the same way, neither a diplomat from any state nor a government leader from any state can tell the Estonian people or parliament that you must do so. A person like that should be kicked right in the ear and thrown out the door. We don't have to do anything we don't want to do. It is a pure question of sovereignty; it is also a question of dignity. Of course we know that homoideology bearers don't have dignity, but we do. We have dignity and we believe that the dignity of the Estonian people must also be protected. If there is a diplomat or politician or a member of the government of another country, or a Member who comes to Estonia and says that you have to do so, then you must stop talking about it in a second. You can't have that kind of talk. We don't have to do anything. We in this Chamber, members of the Estonian Riigikogu, must do what we have promised our voters. That's what we have to do! What we have promised our constituents, we must carry out, at least try to implement, we realise that there is no way to implement our programme fully when we are in opposition. But that's what we have to do. The Estonian people do not have to do anything at all that they do not want to do; they decide for themselves how they organise their lives. Of course, I also live in the real world, and I understand that Estonia, as a small country, which has largely contributed to both economic success and security for its allies, must at least listen to what the allies would like us to do with real policy in mind. That's what I get. My complaint to the current leaders of Estonia, both the President, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister and everyone else, is that, as far as I am concerned, no attempt has been made to explain our views, our interests to the allies. Whenever you sit in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and listen to the State Department talk about when we go to one big meeting, another big meeting, meeting, sitting, what are Estonia's views? It is always Estonia's position to do as others do. Always! The sole task of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to track down what others want of us and then sell it to the Estonian public and to the Estonian parliament. I used to work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it was 1995/2000. Then we were not as globalised as we are today. We had regular work meetings where this attitude was very much to be seen at the time, but it was not yet completely dominant. And my question every time was that wait-wait, what's our thing, what others want us to do. It is up to us in this house to figure out what is good for Estonia and try to sell it to others, i.e. to explain to our so-called allies and friends that this is in Estonia's interest. It is not always possible to achieve this, but we should at least try. It ties in with the same subject as our history. I am thinking, for example, of the bronze soldier. After all, there is also this company in Estonia who says that our Western friends do not understand us. Damn it, if you don't understand, it's up to us to explain it to them. It is up to us to explain our complex, multi-layered and very tragic history so that they can understand us. To tell you that one or the other Western politician or diplomat really wanted us to act so nice-good that he wanted us to, but wish is the kingdom of heaven. It is up to us to explain to them that we are not doing this or that we are not getting it or that there is no social acceptance or that there is no national need for it. This is the hallmark of an independent state when we act like this. Yes, of course, all reasonable states promote their interests with their allies, go out and try to pinch them or negotiate some kind of action or behavior that is beneficial to them, or which connects them with their understanding of world affairs. It's perfectly normal, that's how life works in the world. But it becomes embarrassing and embarrassing when our own politicians come and tell the people of Estonia that they and others want us to do so. It's multi-layered mean. Firstly, it essentially tries to put responsibility on someone else in realising their own goals. The same law on cohabitation is being put to the Estonian public by saying that otherwise the Americans will not support us, otherwise there will be no money from Europe, otherwise the Italian planes will not come here. This is all bullshit! It is said that it is not really necessary for the domestic political debate to argue its objectives so that responsibility can be shifted to someone else. The same politicians who tell us how we are still under pressure and why we have to do this are trying to get behind the fact that someone else wants us to do this. That's how they really want to make their lives easier. That's a mean move. The other thing is that they are not up to their responsibilities if they do not resist such behaviour. However, this behaviour is unacceptable, it is unacceptable in international communication that someone intervenes in the country's decisions in this way. Of course, Obama still loves to do it. We know that he probably went to the UK two weeks ago to explain how the British must vote in the Brexit referendum. We know Obama's success in selling our great goals. When he went to Copenhagen to sell some kind of climate package, it ended with a disaster. If he was going to me, I don't remember where the lobby was going for the Olympic Games to be held in America, it was a disaster. So we have a little pattern in front of us that predicts that if Obama is fighting for something or saying something, the opposite is true. So as a big fan of Brexit, I've grown hope because Obama went to England to tell the English how to do it. Because England has very strong traditions of sovereignty and democratic independent decision-making. In fact, the whole of Brexit is about whether they have the right to decide their own affairs or not. That's what Brexit's arguing about. And just like in Brexit's case, no one can tell us that you have to do that. And if that's what somebody's gonna do, it's gonna have to laugh. In the same way, you cannot come to Estonia and tell us, be it church institutions or politicians, that you have to do this. This conversation must be stopped immediately, and it must be very acutely stopped to say: listen, people, know your place!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U104	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U105	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. Here's what I'm asking. We know how homosexuality was treated in the Soviet Union, now there are other times and other customs. You also talked about the Muslim attitude. But you're competent at these things. How, in general, does this homosexuality grow so explosively in Europe or throughout the world? Is it possible to put a stop to this and to develop society normally?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U106	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U107	Thank you, Honorable Chairman! Good Martin Helme! Suppose I have a very good friend named Peeter Puuvõrke who is only ten years older than me. Would it have been possible for Peeter Puuskander and I to enter into a partnership agreement with notarius last year, with all our legitimate desires and desires and everything else, without the law of partnership yet to enter into force? I humbly ask for as thorough an answer as possible! I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U108	Thank you. I've been trying to be as thorough as possible. Yes, this contract could have been called a partnership agreement, but not within the meaning of the partnership law. It was certainly possible last year, and it is also possible to conclude all kinds of civil law agreements governing relations with the notary. It was possible then, it's possible now. It was possible to identify all kinds of matters, both in the material sense and in matters concerning third parties, including matters of succession. It was possible! This has been repeatedly confirmed by legal experts and notaries themselves. So, indeed, there has been no need for the law of partnership in this form. It is worth noting that apart from a normal contract, apart from a contract between two people, it would have been possible to conclude partnership agreements. The social contract exists in Estonian civil law and it would have been possible to include it in addition to Peeter Puukandi or what he was a third or fourth. It is also worth noting that it is neither a matter of state authority nor a matter of notary whether or not there are intimate relations between the parties to the agreement. It's a private matter for people. At this point, I really feel sorry for those people whose cornerstone or central part of their identity is their sexual conduct. I just don't get it. We all live our private lives, we all have close relationships. I personally have four children, but I don't go and talk about it. I think this is clearly a private matter. I'm sure it's affecting my identity, but it's not central to my identity. I feel sorry for the people whose identity is based on who, how much, when and how they have sex. I think it's a sign that these people have something messed up in their heads. Actually, we should be helping these people. I went to South Estonia a few years ago to meet the people. If I remember correctly, it was a small country in Põlva County. I attended a relatively small school, and a teacher approached me there. He came to me and asked me what he had to do. He was in class, I don't remember, about a 15-year-old boy from a troubled home. The boy had a transition period, and he had tried in different ways to live out and protest against everything, and his last discovery was that he had to become a transvestite. In a small country, of course, such a thing doesn't make life easier for anyone. He had become very aggressive in advertising his views, it was his way of living out. The teacher said, "What am I supposed to say to this boy? How can I help him? " My advice was that he try to help by explaining to the boy that his very private sexual conduct does not have to be what he shows most to others. It's a private matter that others shouldn't be interested in, and the absolute majority doesn't. We really don't want to know at all. So let's try to find some kind of output that's more practical and socially less provocative. Trying to find another application. All right, he's discovered he's got this tendency or attraction. If so, it is. In a small country, it probably complicates his life, but it's not our business to make his life more complicated, but to try to help him find another way to relieve his psychological tension. However, when we come back to contractual relations, firstly, such agreements were possible a year ago or four months ago. Secondly, they are possible now and they are possible after the annulment of the Cohabitation Act. But what is important: no kind of agreements, including partnership agreements, will solve any anxiety in those people who are screwed up because they have desires that they cannot cope with and that cause them stress. One thing we have heard here many times from those who are in favour of the Cohabitation Act and no one is arguing about is that there is a disproportionate number of people with mental disorders and people suffering from stress, anxiety and depression among homosexuals compared to the rest of the population. If I look a little bit, I'm gonna find some kind of account I've checked out. They claim that their depression and anxiety come from society's disparaging attitude toward them and from being able to live normally out of the closet. That's why they're stressed all the time and have to drink alcohol or drugs, so that's their solution. But unfortunately, research does not support these claims. There are a number of countries or regions where there is extreme liberalism, where people are not discriminated in this sense, and there is no discrimination at all. An example is San Francisco and Key West in America or the North. However, there are no signs that the mental problems of same-sex couples have been reduced. On the contrary, it is a clear trend that since regions with a highly liberal attitude to homosexuals attract people of this kind, the proportion of people with depression, addiction and other mental disorders in these regions has increased. It must be understood that we are being tried to give the impression that public stigmatization is the reason why these people have mental disorders or other difficulties. The cause of all this is said to be that society has a bad attitude toward them. But in those countries where the surrounding environment is very favourable, these problems are just as big or even bigger. So that's not true. Maybe you should ask, maybe their sexual behavior is because they have other mental problems. In other words, perhaps we should help these people by trying to find relief from the problems in their heads, then perhaps they could also find a solution to other issues. But that's not the kind of thing we have in social discussion. The most aggressive champions of homoideology could now accuse me of hate speech, because if we dare to come up with some hints of homosexuality being a certain mental disorder or a certain health disorder, it's a terrible humiliation and hostile talk. But it's not. Objectively and pragmatically and empirically, these people have serious mental disorders and should be helped. In fact, only those people who admit that they have a problem can be helped. This also applies to alcoholics. If they refuse to accept the problem and accept that there is some sort of deviation, they cannot be helped. We'd rather do these people a disservice like we do a disservice to an alcoholic than tell him that aha, that's who you are, but we accept you as well. Here's the next bottle. Here you go, feel good! We're not gonna do that. We're still trying to help the alcoholic in the world he crashed, and not by giving him another bottle and saying we're gonna take you the way you are. We would still somehow help to change his pattern and find the reasons he has in his soul or in his head that he's stuck in traffic. But we don't do that often, and it's like being mean to these people. I think it's the only way to help these people. That would be real compassion and helping your neighbor. But we're not gonna do that. Speaking of health and health problems, people are trying to tell us that homosexual practice is no different from normal heterosexual sex. This is bullshit. This is very clear from all kinds of research. I'm gonna read it right now. I'm gonna find this page. I got it right here. What damage, then, does such a relationship cause? It's been studied in America. In America, there is a state institution called Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. This government agency in the United States has recognised that the only social group in which HIV infection is still on the rise is a group of homosexuals and bisexuals. In terms of the extent to which homosexuality is harmful to health, the conclusion of this same disease control centre is that although only 2% of male homosexuals are in society, we have talked about these percentages here before, and Peeter Ernits asked about the Kinsey report, which was about 10%, but the CDC says that there are 2% of them, according to a study carried out in 2009, 61% of cases of HIV infection fell to this figure of 2%. So it is quite obvious that, at least in the United States, HIV and AIDS spread in a very, very small group of society that is linked by sexual behavior. Among male homosexuals, HIV infection was 76 times greater than in the rest of the population, and this is one of the consequences of this behaviour. Studies have also been carried out in other countries which have explained that homosexual men have a much more common papilloma virus than the rest of the population, which is mainly a cause of cervical cancer in women and anal cancer in men. They also have significantly more frequent hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, as well as tripper, syphilis and various gastrointestinal disorders, especially in men with anal cancer. Women have higher rates of bacterial vaginosis, hepatitis C and various types of cancer in the general population. So homosexual behavior is not the same as normal sexual behavior. This is a repeat of the major health risks that homopropaganda, of course, does not tell us anything about. For example, Dr. Kevin Fenton, director of the UK Public Health Agency, an STD expert, warned at the British HIV Association conference that there is an increasing risk of HIV epidemics with catastrophic consequences for homosexual men worldwide. According to Dr. Fenton, the risk of HIV infection in men is about 23 times greater in homosexual relationships worldwide than in other populations. There are, of course, clear reasons for this. I'm going a little far from the question, but I was asked to be thorough. These clear reasons have been identified by the studies. Primarily, there is a cause for promiscuousism, or fornicating in the language of the land. A study was carried out in the Netherlands which found that men who lived in stable partnerships had, on average, eight casual sexual partners over the course of the year - they were "cohabited" - gay men who pledged their allegiance to each other, but those who did not live in stable partnerships had an average of 22 random partners over a year. In this same study, it has also been found that the duration of a stable partnership is a stable partnership, if you have eight small sideways over a year, on average two years. So there's so much going on in the village that there's still something on the village. The result of all of this is that the studies concerned have also been carried out, that the life expectancy of homosexual men is considerably shorter than that of the rest of the population. The reason is not only that they are dying of AIDS or some other disease, such as cancer, but also what I mentioned a little earlier, that they also have serious mental problems. Many of these people experience anxiety and abuse drugs and alcohol, and this, of course, has a negative health effect. In order to be more fully answered, I will read something to you. Last week's Estonian Express had a very enlightening article about Tallinn's fun quarter on Tatari Street. There are two very interesting nuances that I think deserve to be highlighted. First of all, these "tolerants" are very intolerant among themselves. For example, X-bar female visitors are not allowed. Sorry, they're just shooting the X-bar. This place is the most liberal. Quoted in the article: 'X-bar female visitors do not respect other Tatari 'epicenter' institutions because they are simply not allowed in. 'For example, about the gay sauna, I was told that women can't be allowed there because women are about to become pregnant,' they describe the attitude. 'In addition, lesbians don't have the kind of attitude that their whole life is a fucking party and a reed. These guys do, and they're the first ones to complain about what you're dating and demanding your rights. They have a p*hhui because for them, it's all just a sex spit. 'Well, I certainly do not disagree with the comment of the 'parties'. As I have said many times, over and over from this remote control, this whole law does not revolve around anyone being able to receive equal treatment or anyone being able to regulate their relations. This whole law revolves around it in order to redefine values and general views in society, and to allow people with different values to shut their mouths when they are intimidated by the repression of state power. That is the whole purpose and purpose of this law. And that, of course, is the whole criminalization of hate speech. If I hear stories here about why it is necessary to criminalise hate speech in Estonia or what are the issues on which the disclosure of opinions should be restricted, then frankly, I would sometimes like to turn to Pikhof and other people and say, 'What are you bluffing about? We understand what we're talking about. ' But I hope the answer was thorough.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U109	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U110	Thank you. Good Martin! You've probably touched on this subject too, but I haven't gotten a real answer in years. Where did the law come from all of a sudden? Fire, fell on the table, and had to accept unconditionally and quickly and quickly. I'm not thinking specifically about the initiators right now, but still, what scale was it? Is Europe or the United States behind this, or do you see specific individuals back there? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U111	Thank you. I am again quoting this fine article, which was in last week's Estonian Express. I read here a small section in which the participants, visitors to Estonian gay clubs or I do not know with whom exactly interviews were conducted, have said: 'All these institutions are made mainly of the enthusiasm of the owners and their acquaintances. There are its permanent sponsors, well-known entrepreneurs and politicians who help the gay community but themselves do not want to disclose their sexuality. ' There are so few of us in this Chamber, I would ask that the politicians who are behind this matter raise their hands. I think we are talking about some Members. As for where this bill came from so suddenly, it is probably because we live in a world where certain major trends are supranational. We have been talking here about what is happening in other parts of the world and whether it is unique to Europe or North America. All of this is clearly and vigorously coordinated on the basis of a very long-term plan, and I think that, too, very professionally or, let us say, a cleverly carried out project, whose distant goals can only be speculated on. As a result of all this, I can see that the Western societies that we have so far are simply going to cease to function and fall apart if this ideology is being promoted and pushed through. In my opinion, this whole process ends with a disaster, and that is why I am so boldly and so confidently fighting against these things. But what do we know specifically about Estonia? I have heard the story of how, before bringing the draft Cohabitation Act to the public, ten of the largest Estonian PR companies were hired to promote this matter. Ten of the biggest! I don't know how many there are in Estonia, but I think those most important ones were paid. And for two reasons. Firstly, so that there is no one left to advise on counterpropaganda. Maybe they wouldn't have a conflict of interest if they worked for the two sides. It's just that the whole market was bought up. And secondly, of course, if you hire the ten most professional PR companies or propaganda, then it's clear. Estonia is small, people are few, everyone knows everyone, PR people and journalists go through a lot, sometimes they switch sides, so some journalists go to a PR company and some PR people come to the press. That's how the whole information field was bought up. It is only possible to do this with a lot of money, it is not possible to launch such a serious operation if you do not have a very thick wallet. Maybe some names, Peter Rebane or some other name, have slipped through the public, but basically we don't know what money they were or where they came from to this day. In this very discussion, we have been given clear defamatory accusations that the opponents of the Cohabitation Act will receive money from Moscow. There's no evidence of this, it's pure slander. We do not know, however, that we do not have any data on where those who are in favour of the Cohabitation Act got the money they need, whether they got it from the White House or who knows it from the Kremlin. If the goal of dividing society is to divide society weakens the Estonian state and society and makes it more difficult to resist foreign aggression, it makes sense to think that one of the sponsors of such division can be our aggressive neighbouring country. This is, of course, speculation; we do not have any names, numbers or faces. But it is clear that huge sums have been spent on popularising this whole process, and it is also clear that we have very committed lobbyists in the legislative body and in political parties. But we don't know who the real pullers are yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U112	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. I want to ask you about a subject that has not been touched today. Were Estonian researchers involved in the drafting of the Cohabitation Act? You talked very well about the PR companies. I also say with a few sentences that when I asked how scientists from the University of Tartu were involved in the preparation of the draft administrative reform, I received the reply that the University of Tartu has no competence to speak about administrative reform. What about the bill? Can you tell if there are scientists involved or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U114	Thank you. As far as I know, no scientists have been approached. However, several Estonian scientists have taken the floor very clearly against the Cohabitation Act. Tõnu Lehtsaar, for example, is one of the people who has repeatedly talked about the risks and problems involved and about the consequences for society and people of enforcing the law on partnership. Another very authoritative scientist, I think, who has taken the floor very clearly against the Cohabitation Act, is Ülo Vooglaid. As far as I know, sexologist Imre Rammul has also spoken on this subject. And a number of psychologists, psychiatrists, and other doctors have positioned themselves against the law of cohabitation. Just in case, I don't make any more of these names out here, because I don't have that list in front of me right now. But this picture is, in my opinion, completely identical. People who know something about it have clearly criticised the law of cohabitation. And what's the reaction? The reaction has been two years old. As always in such cases, the first reaction is to ignore at all, not to talk, not to comment, not to pick up the phone. And the second reaction, which is also very typical of left-wing radicals, is to start systematically slandering and causing reputational damage to people who do not sing along. The clear goal is to force critics to remain silent. And it's very effective! We know the hand's twisted here. I have no examples of Estonia, but there are examples of the United States of America. There are professors who do not sing a politically correct song, who have been subjected to repression. Their research work has not been published, their research projects have not been funded and they have been tried to be paired in the company of polite, progressive scientists. Time and again, I return to the fact that it is precisely the left that we are complaining about the fact that political discussion in Estonia has become so acute and so ugly that it is no longer possible to discuss matters rationally with one another. In fact, they themselves have made this political discussion this way. Often they are fanatical journalists acting through their agents or pawns or pressure groups that are not directly involved in the party. So clues don't lead to the back rooms of the parties. This stigmatisation, stigmatisation, and overwhelming of people who disagree is a tactic of their own, and it is used routinely and without hesitation. I can give an example of what kind of trapping has been held or in what way attempts have been made, for example, to ruin Varro Voogluidu, who has never fallen to this level, to turn to someone or to someone superior or unfavorable using dirty words. He has always explained his views in a polite and well-argued manner. But the answer is just gutting and squirting the poison. In this context, it is no wonder that the proponents of the Cohabitation Act have had no interest in resorting to researchers. If scientists do their work honestly, rather than be political activists under the name of scientists, they will provide us with stacks of material that will prove that homosexual behaviour is harmful to the people themselves, is harmful to society and should not find national recognition or regulation. The country should favour traditional cohabitation and traditional marriage because it is the best growth environment for children, the safest, as a rule also the most prosperous, most stable community. We have stacks of examples of research and statistics that show that a child who has grown up with a same-sex couple, is either a biological child of one mate or has other combinations, can be more likely to suffer mental disorders than a traditional home-grown child. The success of these children's studies is often worse than that of children who have grown in a normal family, and their chances of becoming addicted to drugs are many times greater than those of children who have grown in a normal family. Their chances for later entry into the network of non-functional or harmful relationships are many times greater than those of children who have grown up in a traditional, stable family. It's an anti-human thing homoideologists do, it's a human hateful thing they do. They're hurting people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! Very thorough examples and good statistics! I'm sure you've taken these things from official publications somewhere. When you look at this empty hall, you remember the proverb that what Juku doesn't learn is that Juhan doesn't know. Maybe you'll call the publications where you got the statistics? Maybe we can put people on the table, and if they press the wrong button this time, maybe they'll learn a little bit and push the right button next time. What do you think of this learning method?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U116	Thank you. I'd love to. Not all of them, but a lot of these examples are from such a great book as 'How to recognize and disprove the lies of the gay movement'. It is issued by the Foundation for the Protection of Family and Tradition. They printed and shared this book diligently a few years ago, and there is certainly more to be obtained. Indeed, there are a lot of statistics here and there are 56 references at the end from which these statistics are taken. We all have the opportunity to examine more closely what one study or another said. Do you want me to read all those references? Okay, there was a nod. All right, reference number one, Daywalk, Rain Radio, 21.12.2013. Available at vikerraadio.err.ee/sounds?-main_id=293061. Reference No 2: Andra Olm, Non-marriage partnership and its legal regulation, Ministry of Justice, 2009. Available on the website of the Ministry of Justice. The following three references: refer to the same sources. Reference No 6: Allar Jõks, Place of stay for the regularisation of same-sex family relationships, Decision No 6-1/060166/06/00782. From 2 February 2006, this was the time when Allar Jõks was the Chancellor of Justice. Next reference: Indrek Teder, 'Notice on the question of the regulation of family relations between same-sex persons', No 6-8/110661/1102390, 23.05.2011. The following reference: "Concept of the draft law on cooperation', Ministry of Justice, 2012. Available on the website of the Ministry of Justice. The following reference: "Cooperation Act concept covering letter', Ministry of Justice, 27.08.2012. Available on the website of the Ministry of Justice. Ref. No 12: A more detailed overview of the chronology of the regularisation of the homo-partnership and "homo marriage" in the Western countries can be found in Wikipedia at en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recognition_of_same-sex_unions_in_Europe. Maybe Wikipedia's reference. Reference No 13: David Fergusson, L.Horwood & A.Beautrais, 'Is sexual orientation related to mental health problems and suicide in young people? ', 56 Archives of General Psychiatry (1999), p. 876 to 888. Second part of the same reference: Theo Sandfort and Others, 'Same-sex Sexual Behavior and Psychoatric Disorders: Findings from the Netherlands Mental Health Survey and Inclusion Study (Nemesis), 58 Archives of General Psychoatry (2001), p. 85-91. Ref. No 14: 'The next step is a group marriage, recognizes the Dutch 'homomarriage father', portal De Civitate. Available portal Lens in archive. Next reference: Tracey L.Hansen, 'Permissive Laws, Permissive Behaviour', MercatorNet.com, 21.10.2008. The Estonian language is available with the title 'How laws, so also behavior' at the life culture.wordpress.com/2009/06/07/how-laws-nonda-deda-deda-deda. Ref. No 16: A detailed criticism of Alfred Kinsey's research can be found in the following works: Judith A.Reisman and Edward W.Eichel, 'Kinsey, Sex and Fraud: The Indoctrination of a People' (Huntington House: Lafayette, 1990); Judith A.Reisman, 'Kinsey: Crimes & Conseils: The Red Queen and the Grand Scheme' (Institute for Media Education: Arlington, 1998). Reference No 17: Edward O.Laumann and Others, 'The Social Organization of Sexuality: Sexual Practices in the United States' (University of Chicago Press: Chicago, 1994); Robert T.Michael, John H.Gagnon, Edward O.Laumann and Gina Kolata, 'Sex in America: A Definitive Survey' (Little, Brown and Co. : Boston, 1994). Simon Le Vay, 'A Difference in Hypohalamic Structure between Heterosexual and Homosexual Men' in Science magazine (August 1991). Same as Simon Le Vay, 'The Sexual Brain' (The MIT Press: Cambridge, Mass., 1993). Next reference, No 20: J.Michael Bailey and Richard C.Pillard, A Genetic Study of Male Sexual Orientation, 48 Archives of General Psychiatry (December 1991), p. 1089 Dean Byrd & Stony Olsen, 'Homosexuality: Innate and Immabile? ', 14 Regent University Law Review (2002), p. 516 to 517. Dr Lawrence J.Haterer, 'Changing Homosexuality in the Male: Treatment for Men Troubled by Homosexuality' (McGraw-Hill: New York, 1970). Reference No 23:'Noted U.S.Psychologists Condemn Gay Activist Influence on APA', LifeSiteNews.com, 20.12.2005. Available... I'm not going to read it, it's a very long reference. Reference No 24: John R.Diggs Jr., MD, 'The Health Risks of Gay Sex' (2002). Thaddeus Baklinski, 'Britain's Public Health Chief Warns of Catastrophic Global Gay HIV Epidemic', LifeSiteNews.com, 25.11.2013. Reference No 26: 'New Multi-Year Data Show Annual HIV Infections in US Relativelyable', Center for Disease Control, 03.08.2011. Available at www.cdc.gov. Reference No 27: Daniel O.Neill, HIV Remains a Gay Disease, Washington Blade, 23.09.2010. Available at www. Washingtontonblade.com Reference No 28: "Restrictions of bloodloving', Estonian Blood Centre www.verekeskus.ee. Reference No 29: Maria Xiridou, 'The Contribution of Steady and Casual Partners to the Incitation of HIV Infection Aong Homosexual Men in Amsterdam'. It is available at www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. Next reference: Lars Eighner, 'Why I Write Gay Erotica? '. Available at larseighner.com Reference No 31: Robert T.Michael and others, 'Sex in America: A Defined Survey' (Little, Brown and Co. : Boston, 1994), p. 209. Robert S.Hogg and Others, 'Modeling the Impact of HIV Disease on Mortality in Gay and Bisexual Men', 26 International Journal of Epidemiology (3/1997), p. 657/661. This too can be found on the web. Reference No 33: '10 Anti-Gay Myths Debunked', Southern Poverty Law Center. Available at www.splcenter.org Reference No 34: David Fergusson, L.Horwood & A.Beautrais, 'Is Sexual Orientation Related to Mental Health Problems and Suicide in Young People? ', 56 Archives of General Psychiatry (1999), p. 876 to 888. The next reference, No. 36: "Homo-activists filed a complaint with the police and demand a campaign 'Protect the family together! "Initiating proceedings against organisers'. This, too, is from the archive of the De Civitate portal, which is now under the Lens. This is the part where we talked about persecution and silence against the argumentators. Ref. No 37: 'Judy and Dennis Shepard: Love your children too', Postimees, 12.09.2013. Postman's web site. Next reference: Stephen Jimenez, 'The Book of Matt: Hidden Truths About the Murder of Matthew Shepard' (Streetforth: Hanover, New Hampshire, 2013). Reference No 39: Maya Shwaydernov, 'A Same-Sex Domestic Violence Epidemic Is Silent'. In addition, Susan C.Turell, 'Descriptive Analysis of Same-Sex Relationship Violence for a Diverse Sample', 15 Journal of Family Violence (2000). Also available online. More relevant research. Peter Sprigg & Timothy Dailey, 'Is There a Link between Homosexuality and Child Sexual Abuse? ', in 'Getting It Straight: What the Research Shows About Homosexuality? ' (Family Research Council: Washington, DC, 2004), p. 121.142. Next reference: Kurt Freund & Robin J.Watson, 'The Proportion of Homosexual Pedophiles Among Sex Offnders Against Children: An Exploratory Study', 18 Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy (1/1992), p. 34. Kurt Freund, Pedophilia and Heterosexuality vs Homosexuality, 10 Journal of Sex & Marital Therapy (1984), p. 197. Kurt Freund, Robin Watson and Douglas Rienzo, 'Heterosexuality, Homosexuality, and Erotic Age Preferences', 26 The Journal of Sex Research (1/1989), p. 107. Edward O.Laumann, John H.Gagnon, Robert T.Michael and Stuart Michaels, 'The Social Organization of Sexuality: Sexual Practices in the United States' (University of Chicago Press: Chicago, 1994), p. 293. Paula Martinac, Do We Condone Pedophilia, Planet-Out.com, 27.02.2002. Dariusz Oko, 'With the Pope against homoheresia', portal De Civitate, 15.06.2013. Kristin Anderson Moore and others, 'Marriage from a Child's Perspective: How Does Family Structure Effect Children and What Can We Do About It? ', Child Research Brief (Child Trends: Washington, DC, 2012). Mark Regnerus, 'How different are the adult children of parents who have same-sex relationships? Findings from the New Family Structures Study', 41 Social Science Research (July 2012). Also available online at www.sciencedirect.com. "University of Texas at Austin Completes Inquiry into Allegations of Scientific Misconduct', 29.08.2012. Also available online at www.utexas.edu and from there goes a number of numbers. Charles Strohm and others, 'Couple Relations among Lesbians, Gay Men, and Heterosexuals in California: A Social Demographic Perspective'. Presentation at the Annual Conference of the American Sociology Association held in Montreal on 10 August 2006. Available online at www.allacademic.com Maria Xiridou and others, 'The Contribution of Steady and Casual Partners to the Influence of HIV Infection among Homosexual Men in Amsterdam', since 2003. Ryan Lee, 'Gay Couples Likely to Try Non-monogamy, Study Shows', Washington Blade, (22.08.2003, p. 18. Sondra E. Solomon and Others, 'Money, Housework, Sex, and Conflict: Same-Sex Couples in Civil Unions, Those Not in Civil Unions, and Heterosexual Married Siblings', 52 Sex Roles (2005), p. 569. Lawrence Kurdek, 'Are Gay and Lesbian Cohabitting Couples Really Different from Heterosexual Married Couples? ', 66 Journal of Marriage and Family (2004), p. 893. Bryan N.Cochran and Ana Mari Cuce, 'Characteristics of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Individuals Entering Substance Abuse Treatment', 30 Journal of substance Abuse Treatment (2006), p. 135
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, excuse me for a moment. I understand Mark Soosaar has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U118	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U119	Thank you, Mr President. You could say that the wave of legalising homosexuality has rolled all over Europe. Western Europe is much more decadent and degenerate than Eastern Europe, and there this wave began to show its flowers and bitter fruits earlier. This has all arrived later in Eastern Europe. Can we say that these right turns in Eastern Europe, particularly in Catholic countries such as Poland and Hungary, are involved? Has the public's clear dissatisfaction with the homoideology being imposed, or is it more economic and other issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U120	I would like to start a little further away from the introductory part of the question. This process is not finished in the West. The highest levels of power have not yet been achieved. In fact, it's a precipice where you can fall, bottomless, and at one point you can't seem to see anything. What happens after homosexual marriages and homosexual adoptions are possible when gender neutrality is enforced as an ideology? This is now the next battlefield in the United States. In the United States, a year or two years of total absurdity has been brought to a social battle on the subject that, yes, people have been born either male or female, but let some people be circumcised or mutilated by hormones. What you are biologically doesn't matter. Whether you're a man or a woman or something in between or some fifth option depends on how you feel about yourself. We know the stories of a man saying that he was born into a female body with a homosexual tendency, or he still wants men. There are these combinations, and they achieve a science fiction level where I'm missing a fantasy. But America has gone even further. The practical battle cannon is that some men say: so what if I have the biological characteristics of a man, I feel like a woman, and I have to have the right to go to the women's bathroom. That's what they're fighting for in America right now! The question is whether men who feel like women can go to the women's bathroom or not, and whether men who feel underage can go to boys' showers or toilets or not. That's where it's been reached. I can't imagine whether this is the end point of all this development or whether it's possible to go somewhere further. We don't know what the next step is. Maybe we'll just make a deal and get the problem off the agenda. We've all been bored with this. This is not going to end! There's gonna be another, even more perverted idea that we're gonna get smeared into our heads. The solution isn't that stop, it won't go on from here on out. The solution is to resolutely reject all the twisted thinking that drives this law. As far as Eastern Europe is concerned, this is certainly an important factor in their political revolution. Certainly, all homopropaganda and homoideology, which very forcefully and very aggressively are being tried to make people dear, is one of the thrust forces. But it's a broader political philosophy that we're fighting against. And this broader political philosophy contains its so-called religious articles. This whole fight is basically very dogmatic. It contains radical feminism, which is clearly a hateful and masculine ideology, I would even say it is ethnic. Feminist hates nations. We have also experienced the hysterical reaction of the champions of this ideology in Estonia to the courage to bring up the topic of the presidential candidate's nationality. Feminism is a fanatical ideology of multiculturalism and does not care about its consequences, which is actually unacceptable to all people who believe that nationality is an essential part of identity and a central bearing beam in the functioning of each country. And, of course, the economic aspect is also important. It is the same ideology that sells us globalisation. And now we see what the real face of globalisation is. The result of globalisation is neocolonialism or neofedalism, I cannot say exactly. The improvement of the middle class has become almost impossible, and climbing up the social ladder has become increasingly difficult. If a hundred or 50 years ago it was that a good education guaranteed you almost certainly that your generation lived better than your parents' generation, then now education is of little use to you. Yeah, well, you need an education, because otherwise you're in even worse shape, but that certainly doesn't guarantee you the possibility of climbing a social ladder. The multinational corporations are draining societies, and in fact it has nothing to do with the market economy, healthy competition in terms of entrepreneurship, or healthy competition between countries. This is simply the brutal exploitation that we see here in Estonia. The Estonian people work for years, with their teeth crossed, simply to keep up the models of the Swedish and German welfare society. This is the Estonian economic model. We are working to maintain their welfare society. Let's get deeper into how our economic model works. For 20 years, we have had a negative external trade balance. The wealth flows out of Estonia all the time, primarily through banks, but also by coming under the investment sign, buying the market and scraping it out of the market, and then taking the profits out of here without paying a cent of the tax. It is neo-colonialism and the dignified nations protest against it, just as it has been done in Poland and Hungary and, to some extent, in Lithuania. There is certainly a need to clarify these matters in Estonia as well. I very much believe in the common sense of the Estonian people and the rationality of the Estonian people. They do not allow themselves to be crippled by some stupid accusation of racism or hatred or intolerance, they do not allow themselves to be enslaved by some twisted ideology, they do not allow their national incarnation to be broken by the ideology of perverted multiculturalism, but they oppose, punish those political forces who have initiated a conspiracy against their own people, and they support those political forces who defend the interests of their nation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U121	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Good Martin Helme! I'll pick up where you almost got to. The point is that in Estonia there is always a lack of tradition, especially in the area of sexuality, which is always condemned and punished. During the Swedish era, their heads were beheaded for it. During the Russian Tsarist regime, the matter was slightly relaxed and, for example, in the 18th century, only victims were punished for sodomy, not those responsible. But I'm gonna come to a question you almost got to. I was asked by one person who I knew by name not by name whether such a retreat from harsh regulations and traditions was suddenly not paving the way for even greater freedoms, such as multi-wifeing and the invasion of a new, quite different culture into our territory. Maybe it'll prepare the way for those who think they'll be better masters here. So it's still this global dimension. I was able to answer him very briefly, hopefully you will speak more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U123	Thank you. I'm trying. As a conservative, the less the country puts its nose in people's lives, the better. In fact, society must be governed by moral standards. Unwritten laws are the ones that matter. Yes, indeed, during the Swedish rule in the 17th century, there was a post-reform period in Estonia, there was a counter reformation and Protestant morality rose to glory. In order to strengthen this morale, the University of Tartu was founded to deal with the grubbing-up of Catholicism from former Polish territories and to introduce a Nordic rustic working culture, which is actually characteristic of Estonians to this day. Or at least we love to think that way. The punishments were harsh, of course. It's about burning witches. The thing about burning witches is that the punishments were carried out by secular power. It was just that the penalties were severe in all areas. You could lose your head for stealing a horse or get hanged, people were dragged on a bike, and they did all these things. When we recall the end of the Swedish era when a gentleman named von Patkul betrayed the Swedish state. He was pulled on a bike, all his bones and bones were broken, and then he was cut to pieces. That was the criminal punishment culture 300 years ago. It must have disciplined people to be faithful to their husbands. But more than this kind of punishment, after all, the manor girls were able to have children, and all these other things came about, the first thing that disciplined people was the clarity of social attitudes. There were things that were allowed, things that were forbidden, things that weren't done just because they didn't. And that's when things that they just don't do because they don't do that are getting smaller and smaller, when we go further and further and further, it's getting harder and harder to explain to anyone that it's not nice to do that. If you're allowed one thing, then... That is a very correct question. Never before will two men be allowed to legitimize their intimate lives, because that is not the way to do it. The only form of community-supported and accepted partnership has been marriage. This marriage has been publicly sworn. He's monogamous, at least ideally he's monogamous, he's long or at least lasting. And there is a reason for all this: marriage has grown out of the belief that society must continue. But society continues through the best environment for children and children to grow is if they are your own children and these children are obtained with your own wife. The most Estonian fairy tales and folklore stories tell about the orphans and how difficult their lives were. So the cultural tradition and tradition of the Estonian people also tell us how bad it is if you do not grow up with your own parents if you are either an orphan or somehow abandoned. We have a beautiful expression that, as the wisdom of the old people says. And that is the wisdom of the ancient nation, after all, for centuries the wisdom has been accumulated, accumulated, chewed, and sifted. From generation to generation, the knowledge of what solutions work and what solutions do not. Of course, there have been some anomalies at any time and, of course, there have been some peculiarities at any time, but what is right and what is wrong is always certain. It is always known that the only exclusive form of family is man, woman and their children. If we give it up and say that we're modern people, the heart wants what the heart wants, let two men be in the same exclusive community, then there's no argument at all why there couldn't be three people in this community. Why can't there be minors in this community, why can't there be close relatives or non-humans in this community? We know that a woman in Israel traditionally married a dolphin. Of course, it didn't have any national or social recognition, but it did carry out a ceremony to marry a dolphin. And I think in England a man was married to his car. It's like funny stories, but it's really far from funny. As long as it's funny to us as long as we're shitting our shoulders and saying that everyone's going crazy in their own way, it's okay. But when two parties in Parliament say that it is right and good, we will make a law on it, let it be, it is far from a joke. I just can't agree with that. If a person goes crazy this way and starts marrying a dolphin, we'll shrivele our shoulders and think that there are all kinds of things in the world, and find out about the calendar when the next full moon will be. If two major parties say that we are doing this, I think it is dangerous for society. Indeed, the same multi-culturalists who so strongly stand up for homosexuals and other minorities do not, as if, understand at all what the next logical consequences of these steps will be. We'll take England, which has changed unfamiliarly as a result of mass migration. Last week the mayor of London became the Pakistani Muslim, who is a radical Muslim. And it became a very simple reason: because more than half of London's population is no longer English, not even white people, or Europeans, are anymore. More than half of the people who have traveled from other parts of the world have chosen their own. In England, there are districts and regions where, in parallel with the English judicial system, Islamic courts have been put in place to exercise justice under Sharia, both in marriages and in divorces and in the distribution of property. We know the story of an English state judging a Muslim man who had seven women for seven years, and all seven women received child support. All seven women received child support because impeccablely tolerant cartoonistics said, but how do we tell her that you can't keep seven women, or which woman should we give that support? Who are we to make choices here? We come back to the fact that when the structure of taboos and myths disappears in society, we really don't know how to answer such questions anymore, then we are completely in trouble. We say that we really don't know he has seven women, they like it, and somehow we agree. A normal, healthy, confident society with respect to its cultural tradition would say: forget it, we cannot. No one can, go back to the country where it's customary. But as we know, Islam is not said that way in Europe. So in answer to this person, you have to say that really, if you delete this limit, you can no longer say that there will be another boundary somewhere else. Unfortunately, we do not have the people here who are in favour of this bill. There's no way they can handle their questions or comments. But if we asked them how they would answer that question, the answer is, come on, be reasonable! I am reasonable. I will rationally think through what the next step is, which is the next development and where everything comes to, which are the desired consequences, which are unwanted consequences. I am reasonable, and I say this is a disaster.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U124	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Martin! Here's the question. In fact, the implementation of the Cohabitation Act in real life could affect perhaps 3% of the population, if you add just as interested, then perhaps 5%. May they do what they want with each other. How someone has sex with, that's their question, isn't it? Whether there are children or not, it should not be of any interest to most of our society. For what reasons, though, has a situation in which people have been driven to their feet, some kind of gap has arisen, opinions are published, processions and meetings have been made, and talks are held in this hall for hours? What's the reason? Why has this question become so important?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U126	I totally agree that it is no one's business how grown-up people live their private lives. This really should not shake or shake us. I think maybe you'll be a little more than that percentage. There was a bill coming through here yesterday. This could be of interest to 11⁄2% of society, and only 1% are those who use it. So this number of people is so marginal, there's nothing to talk about. Why has there been such a fight in society? The answer is very simple. With the absolute majority of the people's values, this bill and this plan and this understanding do not go together. If we look back at the time when we had a debate on homo rights in Estonia at all, then Estonian society was quite open, acceptable and tolerant and ready to listen to the arguments of one party or the other concerning the need to regulate the relations between these people. Now, however, the homosexuals have completely clearly turned over the wiener quickly and forcefully. Basically, their argument usually comes down to the fact that you have to tolerate what we think. You have to accept what we think is right. Essentially, the majority of society in general has been driven by a demand to adopt a different system of values than has been in place so far. That's the reason for the fight. All of us are being tried to impose positions that we cannot agree with because of our inner convictions. And if we disagree with them, there will be an avalanche of threats: we will criminalise your speeches, we will criminalise your statements, we will ban you. And, of course, there will also be a social aziotage, or "clapper yacht', for those who speak against the cohabitation law. In our case, it can be said that the whole party has been followed by a hooter hunt. Without any shame and without the slightest rationality and, in fact, without arguments, simply demonise, disparage, insult, and try to ruin people who disagree. Here we come to the point that, if we accept this, we have agreed to a totalitarian social order. But I do not agree with the introduction of totalitarian social order. I simply do not agree that there is some kind of national truth and right or official truth and right or some kind of official value system. I don't agree! And I do not agree particularly because it has been imported and it has been forced by a very small minority in Estonia. It's done with mean shots and lies. I do not agree that the country is governed by lies. The Soviet Union was ruled by lies, and the Soviet Union was a disgusting country to live in. Every day it was disgusting to be in that system. I don't want Estonia to become the same country where it's disgusting to live because any button you turn on a radio or television, there comes a disgusting lie to you every day, and it's made clear to you that you're stupid because you have an opinion or because you're an evil, evil, mean, intolerant, hateful person, because you're on the side of normal. I don't agree with that. Your party does not agree with this, our party does not agree with it, and it must be opposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U127	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! That's the question. We have a group that is in favour of bringing in refugees. We know that refugees are mostly Muslims. The same company is in dire pursuit of this law of cohabitation. I imagine you won't be able to speak like this in a year or a half, because it'll be criminalized by us. Is there anything to do with these two things? What if this law is passed and a large crowd of strangers arrives?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U129	We have very good examples or examples of a model, a bad word, let's say, warning examples, which will happen if we follow these same patterns and these same models, or we build a new Nordic country, as has happened in Western Europe. It's called dystopia. These are converging phenomena and the result is a permanent social violent conflict. Of course, the first to suffer in this conflict are the same sexual minorities, the people among those who are "visible." They will, of course, return to the closet once the Muslims rule the streets, because they simply cannot do otherwise. And all the rights they have on paper become totally irrelevant and meaningless. As far as the criminalisation of hate speech is concerned, I believe that it is also one of the'red lines' in the society that must be mobilized against in any case. No matter what beautiful stories we do not try to end freedom of expression in Estonia, it is a violation of basic and most important, central human rights, justifying it with some fictitious human rights. The right of homosexuals to register same-sex cohabitation is, in my opinion, a fictional human right, but my right to exercise freedom of expression and conscience is a fundamental, central human right. If that is not the case, if there is no freedom of expression, then there is no freedom at all, because you can no longer argue, defend any positions, the social debate ends and witch hunts come in place. In every society in which the social debate ends, what is allowed, what is truth, always power decides. Criticism of power is no longer possible. We will no longer be able to ask Pevkur sharp questions or tell the garment that this is not the case. This is going to end, and there's no way we can agree to it. But what happens if we care about mass immigration in Estonia? We see clearly signs that our government is completely capitulant. There are stories in front of us that we are still discussing, we have not promised anything, but in fact Tallinn is full of immigrants. Where they come from, who they are, it's basically hidden from us. What awaits us is, of course, violence. Estonian society is being driven towards violence and this violence can manifest itself in very different ways. One of the ways everyone understands is the type of violence we saw in Brussels in March, which is terrorist attacks. In November, there were terrorist attacks in Paris. The other kind of violence is reflected in the way foreign culture establishes itself. Yesterday was seen in Munich, it must have been yesterday, that enthusiastically 'Allahu akbar! " The screaming person simply stabbed ordinary train drivers, calling them unbelievers. The third version of violence is the victim of our folk dancers or folk singers in Sweden. White people went to the Muslim district, they weren't welcome there, and they just started beating up. This is the kind of violence we see everywhere in the West. They try to hide it in every possible way, cover it up, justify it, reduce it, put the blame on the natives. But we're all gonna see through this. Once again, I would like to stress that if mass migration in our case is a'mass' maybe even a misleading word, if thousands of people are already changing the image of Estonian society, if this whole process continues, then the same people, who are supposedly also being fought for by the promoters of the Cohabitation Act, will be the first to suffer. I repeat what I said before: every gay guy, if he has any sense in his head, it is worth voting for us in the next election because we stand for the society in which they are good. So what if we don't support the partnership law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U130	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U131	There has, of course, been a lot of speculation on this subject and there have also been many theories. I wouldn't call them conspiracy theories. In my opinion, however, this process must be looked at in the long term and it must be foreseen what the consequences will be. In the case of social democrats in particular, it is important not to listen to what their objectives are, but to look at the consequences of their actions. These are two completely different things. The goals are always beautiful, the consequences are often horrible. I think it is worth remembering what has already passed through here several times, that when we talk about the promoters of homoideology, the same people are also promoting a number of ideas that are equally destructive and have a destructive effect on the health of society or on the survival of society. We've already talked about mass migration or immigration, about destroying or attacking a family institution. In my opinion, the central effort now is to demolish the traditional European social order. And all the things that are being done here now serve this purpose. It is very difficult to assess what motivates these people. We have a lot of talk in Estonia over the last few weeks about useful idiots, about people doing things without realising what their actions are or who really benefit. I do not doubt for a moment that there are a large number of people among the enthusiasts and leaders of the gay movement, who can also be called useful idiots. These people don't understand what they're doing and why. Some of them are completely inexperienced. If I listen to the slightest unbearable talk of tolerance ideology that has been put on fire by the eyes of a high school student, I am terribly sorry about these young people. They are like some kind of michurinians or what they are called lack of experience in life and a much wider sense of the world to help them understand the undesirable consequences of this theory in the long term or on a wider scale. Of course, it must also be said that homoideology cannot be as successful as it would be only homosexuals themselves. They're so marginal in society that their message doesn't get anywhere. Homoideology is progressing primarily because there is a very strong society of people who are not gay but who promote it for one reason or another. What is their motivation? I understand what the motivation for questioning homosexual orientation is. I can totally understand that. There is, by the way, a separate gay organisation or movement in America, which the supporters of which say, please don't fight us any marriage rights, we don't want it. So there's also a conservative gay organization in America. They see no need or reason to break the traditional institution of marriage or create an institution of gay marriage alongside it. They say please don't fight for us. Of course, as we all understand, they're not the good gay ones, they don't get very much air time. There are also the majority of people in the Estonian homo community who have absolutely no regard for this whole cohabitation law. That is the question of who are the people who are not gay themselves, but who are in terrible pain by promoting this law. Why are they doing this? It is possible that some of them are simply paid lobbyists. That would be a logical and simple explanation. But in that case, the question arises as to who is then the payer and what is his motivation. It's possible there's some kind of international force at stake pulling strings. We understand that the process is not limited to Estonia; it is also in all other countries. I don't dare say there's a conspiracy behind this, it's just speculation. But in view of the consequences, we can assess that these are people who are clearly aware that they are dismantling the present society. And they still do. And I think it's the scariest. What they want to replace or what their motive is, why they want to dismantle the present society is beyond my understanding. We've heard stories about the new world order here. I am very disturbed by the global trend in regulating the lives of countries through international agreements, conventions and international organisations. It is clearly anti-democratic in this sense that as soon as we join some kind of agreement or organisation, it is as if the Estonian electraat is no longer in a position to make choices on any matter, because we have already been prescribed: you have agreed to this or another matter in advance, and now it is necessary to do so. And indeed, also in the context of the Cohabitation Act, we have heard a great deal about the argument that Estonia has taken on international commitments and now it is just a matter of formalising. First of all, it is, of course, wrong, but homopropaganda is largely made up of lies. And secondly, I do not accept this argument either way. The highest authority in Estonia is the people; no international agreement can be higher than the will of the people. Yes, legally, in terms of formality, it may be necessary to abandon some conventions simply if it turns out that there is a conflict of interest. But at least there is no conflict on this issue. We can always say no. It's got to get through to everyone. We can always say that we do not like it and that we do not. Yes, of course, there are consequences. Let us look, for example, at the attitude that is being cultivated towards Poland, or at the attitude that has been cultivated against Hungary for years, because the Hungarian and Polish governments are out of the way from the interests of their people and are very strong in defending these interests. There is no doubt that, even if there were to be a government in Estonia that did not agree to be a good boy in all matters, and somewhere else to be dragging down decisions and reading from the eyes what Germany or the European Commission wanted, but instead of pursuing an independent policy, a policy of the interests of the Estonian people, Estonia will also face a sign of a small disgusting Eastern European Nazi state overnight. It doesn't shake me at all. I think we don't have to worry about what others think of us. Especially we in this Chamber need to think about what our constituents think of us, what the Estonian people think of us, whether the Estonian people like the country in which they live or not. Of course, it is not possible to achieve a country in which all people like everything at the same time, that is what we understand. Ten years or a little more ago, Estonia was asked very often: was this the kind of Estonia we wanted? And when we are talking about the Cohabitation Act, the answer is very simple: no one wanted this kind of Estonia. Some aggressive minority has done this and put it on us all and said more: you must like it, you must love us! If you don't agree, we'll put a cherry on your throat and forbid you to express your views. We simply cannot agree with this thinking. This is not the kind of Estonia that we wanted, neither our voters, nor your voters, nor the voters of the Social Democratic Party, have wanted this kind of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Martin! It is clear that 1% or less than 1% of the population is covered by the Cohabitation Act. Ninety-nine percent isn't exactly touching. But democracy is the majority power over the minority. Of course, history has also shown that some minority, although they may call themselves Bolsheviks, has created major changes. But there must have been some kind of power, some kind of money, some other reason. The mind refuses to believe that such a trivial problem for society can lead to such large ideological attacks. What might be the force behind the fact that the gay movement brings about such great changes in society?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U133	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U134	I have a question, Mr President, about the chairing of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Should it be in Estonian or may it be in another language?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U135	The session of the Riigikogu must take place in Estonian. In this case, there are references in English; the general text of the book is in Estonian. I don't think we're going to translate references here. So the honorable waitress can continue in Estonian. For some reason, the waitress used a lot of references in her answer, but there's no way we can deny her that if it's her choice. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U136	Thank you. I have already given an exhaustive answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U137	Thank you. It's a beautiful philosophical question. We always lose something, we always win something. It is never the case that we only win or lose. Borodinos are also judged to be a victory, though lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I am not speaking on behalf of the party, although I am here as a representative of the party. It is not for the simple reason that for the Reform Party this has never been either an ideological or a fundamental world-view issue. We have not been united on this issue before, not now and will not be in the future. That's point one. So I'm responsible for what I said. Number two: Martin's final appearance lost his message or we forgot where he started, and that was crucial. I repeat what Martin said: 'We do not have the law of partnership. " We do not have the law of partnership! It's just a name. The substance of this law is one-sex homosexual marriage and we must treat it as such. I mean, we need to see what's behind this. And now I'm going back in time. I want to talk about the composition of the Riigikogu that was here before we came here. I was in the previous composition, too. Let us recall what the message of the previous Riigikogu was! First of all, I recall that the atmosphere surrounding the work of the Riigikogu was generally hysterical. There was hate speech and whatever. The President said something and pressure was exerted, the members of the cabinet went to gay clubs, whatever it takes to show solidarity. In short, it was generally a very brutal pressure. What have we now achieved as a result of this? By 'we', I mean those who were against the law of cohabitation and who were a minority. What have we achieved? Let's interpret it! We have achieved that the Riigikogu passed the Cohabitation Act, or the Gay Marriage Act, which is not applicable. Why is he not applicable? Because we were able to take it so far that the procedural rules were separated from substantive law, and we achieved that yes, substantively, this law exists, but procedurally it does not apply. It won't be much in 25 years. What do we call the current situation? Someone here has said that the situation is schizophrenic, second, third, fourth, and so on has said something else. I say this: it is a compromise in the highest sense of the word. Homosexual proponents of marriages received their substantive law, which formally applies. It's probably a moral victory. Those who have opposed have achieved that this law is not applicable. And if this Riigikogu remains the way it is now, i.e. it has shifted to the right and probably the next one of us will shift even more to the right, then this application will never come. Martin said another right thing: 'That doesn't stop. ' I'm afraid he's right. So, what are we supposed to do in this situation? In this situation, we keep the old situation. Do you want to clear the way for a new one? No, because the whole of Estonia is satisfied at the moment. Some got it, some got it. Happiness is in the house and we will be dealing with administrative reform, which is a much more important issue! We're about to have a budget coming up. We need to get the economy going. Is this really an important subject? And the last thing I wanted to say. Hey, give me a little more time, will you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U139	Thank you. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U140	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U141	Thank you for that question too. Unfortunately, I am not competent to respond to this, because we did not discuss this issue in the Commission on 11 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U142	Thank you. My question, my good colleague, is this: what are the coalition's plans with implementing provisions? Will they be coming soon, or will you not yet have votes together and the vague situation will last for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U143	Thank you. From my point of view, it is not a problem at all that the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act are stuck. It is very important to note that we can be satisfied with this. In the current political constellation and the current social reference system, it is a pleasure to note that this is all behind the stump. We can be grateful for this in a number of ways. Yesterday, I quite critically pointed out to the free parties that they were clearly opposed to the Cohabitation Act before the elections, but now they have exchanged sides in the Riigikogu in critical votes and changed their position. It is completely incomprehensible to me how a position on such a fundamental issue can change in less than a year. This suggests that their certain promises before the elections were suddenly not sincere. When we are talking about implementing legislation, one of the reasons why they has not gone further is that votes are not together. Unlike the repeal of the Cohabitation Act, which we could do in this Chamber by a simple majority, the implementation of the Cohabitation Act requires 51 votes. So the threshold is higher, and there really is no sound coming together for this, even if one opposition party partially goes to the coalition. I think that we can only be satisfied that one very bad law with one very bad application is stuck like this. And it is, of course, quite clear that he is stuck in the face of social pressure and the fact that this social position is protected by a number of parliamentarians and political parties in this Chamber. We will not just let this thing shake out quietly, but we will still turn the light on all the delegates and political parties who would turn their heels on this issue. After all, these people must come back to the voters at some point. The next election is next fall, not three years from now. In this sense, I am very pleased that we have a social spirit that frightens politicians to do the right thing. I think that in a really democratic country, politicians are always so afraid of the people, not the other way around. And I am pleased that we have a number of politicians in the Riigikogu who are afraid of being spineless in this matter. That's great. It would be even nicer if all people actually had a backbone, but it's enough if their backbone gives them the opinion of the people. The fact that we came here with the draft annulment of the hall is, after all, the solution to this problem, where the implementation of the law on partnership cannot go forward or backward. If implementation cannot be approved, we will abolish this law and all the concern will disappear. And let's hope it stays that way. I would like to stress once again that one day we will abolish the law of partnership in any way, even if it has some wonderful way of pushing through the implementing provisions for some time. It won't stay that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U144	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U145	Thank you, good boy! I mean, one more thing I wanted to say. There are rules that are called Westminster rules of administrative responsibility. Who doesn't remember, watch the series 'Yes, Mr. Minister' where they play with them all the time. This means that, being in this composition of the Riigikogu today, we are also jointly responsible for the work of the previous Riigikogu. Just like the people responsible for our decisions today who come after us. And in the name of this solidarity of the Riigikogu, I'm sorry, Martin, but my heart is dripping blood on this point, I can't just come and pull it off. It was not a compromise with snot and barbed wire; it was still a compromise with blood and teeth. I think it's worth it to keep it. And nothing bad is gonna happen, so pay attention! The law of cohabitation is in force. So what? Does that really bother you? To tell you the truth, right now, I was getting really upset because I was talking to myself, but basically let him be. If it means peace in the house, it is as if the Vatican man said, "Congratulations to you, my children, and do your work calmly. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U146	Thank you. Mark Soosaar, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I presented the Commission's material, I forgot one thing. I'd like to add it to this. The point is that we also asked Martin in the Commission how many more laws there are that the EKRE wants to repeal. And I remember the number you said, Martin, was a couple of hundred, but it's a trivial number because there had to be 200,000 pages of law in America. Some hundred laws are supposed to be broken in the kitchen. Maybe so. But I go beyond where Igor finished: indeed, continuity is also something. We may not like many laws, and some laws are such that they are very difficult to comply with. But there's a law on the table right now that doesn't have to be enforced. It doesn't oblige anyone to get together. It's the free choice of people who need this law. We also hold on to those who really are less in our society, but who also have the right to live in the 21st century as they live in other countries of Europe and the rest of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U148	Thank you. I feel kind of sad that the references have already stopped. But I will now return to the substantive debate and ask a question that has arisen in conversations between myself. It has been said that if there are a lot of different opinions and there is a strong support group, then they could be given an opportunity, for example, by allowing for extra-territoriality. It's been tried in history. At one time, even a Jewish autonomous region was formed, it was thought that they wanted to travel that way, not the other side. And sometimes it's been said in some places that we make separate taverns for smokers and non-smokers. I can assure you that I am not in favour of some sort of cutting myself up, but in order to get convincing arguments against it, I ask this question: can we not make a region in Estonia, for example, say that the island, because the island people would immediately be upset to try to experiment on such a thing, to apply it? What is your reasoned opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U149	Thank you. I'll try to justify it thoroughly. We also have some islands where there are no residents at all, such as the Pakri islands. I know that your party partner Märt Sults has tried to make the islands on Tallinn's raid into a casino island. While a sin island is being built, a few small pieces can be added to this plan. However, I fear that this would be contrary to the Estonian Constitution, which talks about the integrity and indivisibility of the territory. That is one reason why I do not support the planned border agreement. But there are also practical problems here, of course. If we're talking about a very small population, how do they autonomously manage themselves there? We understand there's a very lively economic life on Tatari Street because of four clubs. But it's still entertainment. These people go to work somewhere, make money, create added value, and then come to spend it. If they all lived there on the ground, what would they do there and how would they add value? I'm afraid Pakri Island has poor soil and natural conditions, agriculture and fishing may not work out there, all the more so that these people may not be interested in hard physical work. And, of course, there is also a defence aspect. We know there's been a real fight in America, and this fight has changed over the decades, turned itself upside down. In the 1970s, during and after the Vietnam War, the homos fought to prevent them from serving in the army. They considered it their human right not to enlist them because of their sexual orientation. At the time, there was compulsory military service in America, where a very small percentage of the population was recruited, but if a person with such sexual orientation got there, he was pissed off. They struggled to obtain the right to exemption from military service for this reason. It was a very big fight. In the 1990s, Bill Clinton established the principle that homosexuals can also serve in the military. Homos began to demand the right to serve in the army. The same thing has happened in European countries: they have demanded the right to join the army. In Denmark, it was decided that there would be any peace on earth to bring people of this kind together in a unit. The military capabilities of such a unit are not expected, but at least they will not prevent other units from carrying out their military duties, exercises through the latter, or create any situation or tension that might otherwise arise. At the same time, I spoke to a senior military officer who said that in the Dutch military, I could be wrong about this kind of thing in the country. Homosexuals are scattered into all units, and the result has been a total moral decline in the troops, because certain things these people are not willing to do. They cannot be forced, as they are immediately stamped for discrimination. They cannot be sent away either, because it is also discrimination. There's some group of soldiers who don't do anything, promise themselves everything, and basically just stare at their co-workers. If we now created an extraterritorial parcel of land in Estonia, it is very difficult to imagine how they can cope with the defence aspect, not to mention from an economic point of view. The economy can't just revolve around nightclubs. Clearly, there is also a constitutional obstacle. If we are especially kind, we are talking about some tens of thousands of people, of whom not everyone is willing to go into such voluntary exile. We are talking here about perhaps one small or medium-sized municipality in Estonia. But I'm not in favour of segregating people by these traits. I think that we have all the opportunities in society for all people to be full and integrated members of society, some of which have just one small private identity. If they didn't talk about it all the time, we wouldn't pay attention to it, and then there probably wouldn't be a problem. It would be pretty cruel to put them somewhere on Pakri Island. As we know very well, nothing came of this Jewish autonomous region.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U150	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U151	Thank you. Dear colleague, thank you for such a substantive report on this matter. I mean, in the old European countries, this philosophy of life is a function that forces us to discuss the cohabitation law in this Chamber. But I myself think that if, in 1990 or 1991, any politician had said that in 25 years' time we would be discussing this issue in this Chamber, this law, many would have wondered if this person was quite well in his head. But in the newspapers and on television, these discussions have been and are going on. What do you think's gonna happen next?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U152	This is one of the reasons why I am so convinced that I am against the enforcement of the cohabitation law and that I am in favour of repealing the cohabitation law. However, I am pleased that I think that this whole topic in Estonia is one of the more thoroughly debated topics at all. I do not know what other social issues have been discussed as thoroughly as the issue of national regulation of homosexual relations or the issue of their'social position' have been. I think that Estonian society has put this issue through properly, all the arguments have been put forward and the social stance has basically settled the positions of society. The question now is whether we, as politicians, accept this and whether certain parties agree that they have essentially lost out in this dispute and will stop putting a constant pressure on society, stop attacking the majority of society or not. I'd be really glad if we stopped. I would be delighted if this law could be repealed and that would be the end of it, and we could all do something else. We will think back to 1990 or 1991 or 1992 when the Constitution of Estonia was put into effect in the referendum. This constitution contains § 27, which says that the family is protected by the state. If, in 1991 or 1992, in the Constitutional Assembly, someone had said, consider that by "family," we mean not just one woman and one man, but this is a changing term! That in 20 years or 25 years, we can turn this term upside down and fill it with whatever it takes. I don't know, maybe with tar and feathers he wouldn't have been driven out of the room, but in any case, people would have looked at him like a person fell off the moon. This is now a useful reference point when we think about where the public debate has progressed, where legislation has reached in a few decades. Let's move this axis forward for 20 to 25 years! What, then, is 20 or 25 years from now, where will this thing develop? We can say this quite clearly because we have examples from other countries where this process started 15 or 20 years ago. We know where it develops, we know where it goes, and it is not acceptable to us where it leads. I dare say with confidence that it is not acceptable for the absolute majority of people in Estonia to take it out. We do not want this social development. The question is not whether this development is taking place more slowly or faster. If you're on a dead end, you need to change course, not decide that we're slowing down. If you move to the edge of the abyss, there's no point in talking about letting people get a little used to the idea that we're on the move towards the edge of the abyss, that we slow down a little bit, and we'll argue through the same arguments once and then we'll move on. Then we have to change course. For the sake of improving the health of Estonian society, this law must be abolished. It is in the interests of Estonian society to strengthen society, adopt laws that strengthen the institution of marriage, strengthen the principle that children grow up with their own father and mother. These are things that should be dealt with and that we should propose. And at the same time, we see that these are things that the government doesn't do. Instead, he is dealing with the pseudo-problem of imposing a very socially damaging solution. If we do not break this law here and say that this is not about the pace we are moving with, but about the direction we are going, then things can only get worse. And we don't want things to get any worse. Our goal is for things to get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U153	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, These three hours have undoubtedly been extremely meaningful. But I still don't quite understand what the idea of the cohabitation law has been. All these problems, which it seems to be trying to solve, can actually be solved by the laws already in force. No law can regulate who lives with whom and how he walks, but all kinds of property has been shared in the past. It's always been possible to go to a notary and make a contract with exactly the content you like. What is the problem that will be solved by this law, or is it entirely a pseudo-issue? If this is a pseudo theme, why is it not as eager to deal with serious problems as homeless children, child poverty or anything like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U155	Thank you. On this point, I appeal to all my fellow Members, who will certainly be very attentive to the TV screens that are taking place in the sitting, and who will be watching and accompanying. Dear advocates of the Cohabitation Act, come at least on behalf of the Group and give an answer to Erki Savisaar's question! So we can get some sort of clarity from the advocates of the law that they want. I can only speculate about this here, because I have been against the law since the beginning, and I really always scratch my head the same way, wondering why it is needed. When I wonder about two questions, I scratch the back of my head: firstly, why is it needed, and secondly, why is it so badly needed? What evil worm has bitten these people, which spirit plagues them, that they so terribly push and push through? Indeed, having talked to some social democrats, it is not easy for us to have these conversations, but I have talked to some social democrats, so I have understood that at least some of them are so close to the heart that they see nothing else around. But that's normal for the left. How can we say, now that we have been looking at the development of the left-wing ideology, the neo-marxist thinking world since the 1960s, we see that it has always revolved around sex. But the law of cohabitation doesn't revolve around sex. The Cohabitation Act does not revolve around regulating people-to-people relations; it aims to impose a certain ideology on the part of a society that does not agree with this ideology. And it's done with extremely hollow arguments. But let's remind ourselves of the Frankfurt School in the 1960s, whose main representatives, Marcus and all of them, were gay. They stated that proletariat was unable to implement Marxist ideology and believed that it was the intellectual task now to enforce this ideology. Intellectuals, or wise people, must take over schools, government agencies, journalism, cultural institutions, and thereby begin to influence the social debate, hijack the narrative of the social debate and impose certain values. Hat off! They have done so very forcefully, very successfully. March through the institutions is over for neo-Marxists and I think it has been quite successful in Estonia as well. Whether we look at the editorial work of cultural newspapers or at the teaching chairs of red universities or at the media institutions, it can be seen that the infiltration of a small, aggressive and ideologically very motivated minority through social institutions is, by the way, very much affected by the church. There was a question before about why they were doing this. It's hard for me to understand. I see that the result of such action is the breakdown of society and the deterioration of life. I see that smarter people understand this perfectly, but I still don't really know why they're doing this. I have an appeal to the Group of the Socialists and Reform Party: come to the Chamber to finish your first reading and take the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U156	Thank you. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The church has also expressed its views on this law. Could you introduce the position of the church and why? After all, it is also possible in the church to form a kind of honeycomb family by choosing their children's Christian parents. The law of cohabitation is not so liberal, it is much more limited and there is only a connection between two people. The church has taken a very clear position, what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U158	Thank you. I am now defending the institution of Christianity, and there is also the beautiful word 'vader' in Estonian. I have my own godchildren, and my children have their own godparents. The main objective of Christianity is to have a social safety net in case something happens to your muscle parents. After all, we also know about ancient stories about how a good godmother helped Cinderella, who had become an orphan, or someone else in trouble. The Christian parents offer an additional safety net, and it all comes from an era when there was no so-called national social safety net. You still have some people you can count on, maybe a mentor or a helper or a counselor, if there are any problems. It may be difficult for a child to go to his or her own parent; teenagers do. We certainly cannot regard this as even close to the same relationship that the law of partnership has in mind. By the way, our current draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act also includes an adoption option. As far as the views of Estonian churches are concerned, the cooperation body of Estonian churches is the Estonian Council of Churches, which includes all Estonian Christian confessions. The Estonian Council of Churches has long adopted a very clear, very unambiguous position which completely denies the cohabitation law and the national regulation of homosexual relations. From a church point of view, it is very simple: it is sin, and the wages sin pays are death. It's a human behavior that harms a person's soul. The church also has a solution for these people. One thing is the temptation to sin, which people must fight, which is part of our Christian teaching. Another thing is the yielding to the temptation that people must fight against and in which the congregation helps them. The congregation has various ways of providing this help, ranging from confession to all sorts of other things. And the third thing that is particularly important is to justify sinful conduct in church or Bible terms among the Christian community. We know that there is also a gay Christian community of two or three people in Estonia. I would put it this way that the Heretics and the Apostates should not have any say in Christian teaching. If you're a heretic, stop calling yourself a Christian. The distribution of false doctrine was in the old days very severely punishable. This is a clear twisting of Bible teaching when someone comes to explain that Christian teaching is acceptable or even favorable to homosexual relations. It is a clear distribution of false doctrine, it has nothing to do with the traditional teaching of the church or with the written word.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U159	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U160	Thank you. I will look at the explanatory statement that the implementing provisions are, as we know, entangled. And it's like they don't want to move on. I'm asking you if you don't want to or if you just don't have the strength to go on right now because there's no more voices, the voices don't come together. Perhaps the positions have changed, the elections are approaching. What do you think the problem is?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U161	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, That's what I asked the waitress. In 1991 and 2016, 25 years, it is essentially one generation. But I remember when the law was passed, the younger people on the balcony accepted it with applause. I don't think the older generation supports it. Don't you think we've lost something in 25 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U162	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, my sincere thanks to my colleague Mark Soosaar, who acknowledged that the cohabitation law is a burden on the coalition and the Riigikogu. He didn't add that to the people of Estonia. Let's say the rare honesty of coalition politicians. So that's the credit for it. Appreciation for my colleague Martin, who made such a varied and varied presentation, having studied all kinds of studies. You didn't miss much, Martin, that you had also talked about the weakness of the Catholic institution, the celibacy requirement has also led to the weakening of the church institution and the pedophiliac scandals, and why the church has not actually fulfilled the role that we have been waiting for in society. But this bill is a good example of how much energy and effort must be spent when one coalition, one government can make so many mistakes. The correction of one mistake takes very much of Parliament's time off air and other. If, for example, we want to lighten the lives of single parents, there are more than 35,000 of them, then there is no way we can find that time, there is no way we can find that energy. Half an hour, and the subject is down. When we are talking about regional policy, which concerns 500000 people, and which calls for measures to be taken to increase people's well-being, we will not find effective weapons to improve the situation, be it pensioners or whatever. The positive side is that we have learned a very good lesson from civil society. Only 11⁄2 per cent of the population has been able to superbly push one point into our political agenda, and it is a millimeter short that this law will be implemented. Which is because the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, comes here with a remote control and calls it a freaky law, an illogical act that causes more problems and intolerance in society. If we went back to 2014. At that time, society was much more tolerant and, in fact, the minorities who were pushing this law through were much more tolerated and taken into account in society. But as a result of this aggressive and unprofessional pressure, two, three, four, five, six and seven speakers have rather increased intolerance and pushed the division of society. But I want to tell Mark Soosaar that I still believe that you still have so much power in your hands that if you see that there is one burden on Parliament and on the people, you can come and help us break the law. Because the Centre Party and the EKRE need additional votes today to get this bill to second reading and finally adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U163	Thank you. Igor Gräzin, Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U164	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U165	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I'm not asking about the law, I'm asking about political culture. After all, this problem has actually been caused by the coalition's failure to comply with the electoral promises they made during the elections. That's the main reason we're in this situation right now. There are promises of things that cannot be implemented. I admit that some promises may be a priority for some parties, but if they fail to implement it, they have actually deceived the electorate. What's gonna keep the coalition together if they can't keep their election promises? What is the force that holds them together? This is not the only problematic issue, there is also the issue of taxes and more. What keeps them together, is it just a desire to be in power?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U166	Thank you. Two very important aspects of political culture must be highlighted here. One thing is that no party in Estonia made its central election promise about the enforcement or implementation of the Cohabitation Act. Yes, they promised that they would support it and support its implementation. The reformers talked about it in half a voice and as little as possible. Our party and some others clearly took a pro-revocational and anti-implementation position. I would like to stress again that the Free Party also promised to abolish or prevent the implementation of the law. IRL did not say much about this, but there was a clear opposition to the draft in IRL and it was easier for IRL to live in the sense that they were in opposition at the time. Unlike the Reform Party, they did not need to defend it or change their previous position. The result of all this is that nothing was written in the coalition agreement about this law or its implementation. Going back a little bit, I would remind you that the adoption of the Cohabitation Act has never been advertised during any election campaign. When we think about the previous elections in the Riigikogu in 2011, no one breathed half a word that they were planning to accept something like this, including the Soviets. So this law is imposed on society, no mandate has been asked for in elections. In the previous Riigikogu election campaign, everyone who was able to do so did not attend to this issue at all. It wasn't discussed. As for the promises made by the government coalition, it is rather sad that in Estonia's political culture we see promises before the elections, on which we can rationally say that point 1, they are not met, or point 2, which I think is even more foolish: no one is serious about them. If one party or another allows for some very beautiful thing, we know that after the elections, there will be no intention of fulfilling it, but that is a good promise. I believe that the arrival of two new parties in Parliament has given impetus to reducing this behaviour. We should keep our promises and also, by example, tell the parties who previously thought that no matter what I promise, we could proceed as before that we cannot now. It has been all this terrible complaining and screaming from the ranks of the Social Democrats, that normal politics can no longer be pursued, EKRE has got it all fucked up. That was our election promise. Our election promise was to clear the corridors of Toompea and shake the current routine policy. Yesterday, a colleague was working for us in the hallway after the debate on this bill that you do not know how to make friends at all. Our answer is that we didn't come to Toompea to make friends. We've come, point 1, to represent our constituents, to carry out our programme. And point 2: We're not looking for friends, we're looking for voices. This is the main activity that is being dealt with here. In politics there are interests above all and then there are sympathies and antipathys. What matters is what we can agree on. Whether anyone likes it is second-rate. The government coalition's package of promises before the elections was one that could not be met in practice. And half the promises were those that were never meant to be fulfilled. And a number of electoral promises made by the parties currently in the coalition were mutually exclusive or counterproductive. In summary, we have the kind of government coalition he is. If we're trying to figure out what's holding them together, it's clear that this government is being held with basically snot and wire. Of course, they are kept together by their own warm chairs. A whole bunch of people would fall from the minister's salary to the salary of a public body, and a whole lot of people would fall off the salary of a public body, I don't know, unemployed creative worker, maybe. And, of course, we have a whole bunch of prominent people for whom maintaining the government is a question of the expiry of criminal deadlines. We all know how much the expression 'legally everything is correct' is used in Estonia. On Monday, we had an inquiry into the deaths of well-known individuals, why they are not being investigated. Legally, everything is correct, but if the prosecutor's office or the police were to actually investigate a matter rather than decide that there is nothing to investigate here, then maybe in a lot of things it would still turn out that there wasn't everything legally correct that the relevant sections existed. Power is sweet, of course, but power loves to corrupt. In Estonia, one party has been in power for 17 years in a row. Indeed, people cannot imagine living in such a way that someone else exercises executive power. Nor can you imagine what it means to sit on the opposition bench and ask questions until 9:00 p.m. But we'll remember how we go to work at night.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U167	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U168	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of gay couples, they want to ignore the logic of the survival of society and demand that they have the right to raise children. It's like some kind of social benefit to help them feel more perfect. Luckily, it's not in the law of cohabitation. At the same time, however, it remains silent that children also have the right to have a mother and father and to grow up in a normal family where their gender identity, values and perceptions are not tilted by any fiction about gender neutrality or their gender. Do you think that we and the state as a whole have a duty to protect children and their right to live in a normal family and to provide for it in the Child Protection Act? Without children there is no future for the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U169	Thank you. I think this is a central issue. By the way, the implementing acts have, at least according to the draft, adoption rights inside. So if the Estonian Cohabitation Act is also subject to implementing legislation, it is one of the most radical versions of civil partnerships in Europe. There is no such thing in the law in very many countries. We know how hideous the ideological perversions with which all the gender-neutral ideology itself is established can be. There are countries where the words'mother' and 'father' can no longer be used but must be said 'parent A' and 'parent B' or 'parent A' and 'parent B'. We know that in Sweden boys are not allowed to be boys and compulsory day-care centres organise days where children change gender roles, so boys have to dress and play with dolls and girls, well, I don't know what they're doing that day, because Swedish boys, of course, won't be playing war for long. It's such a gruesome harassment of children's rights or a perversion of children that it's just a fist. Such societies cannot last. If society does not protect its weakest, or children, then this society does not deserve to continue. But I believe that Estonian society deserves to be continued. And that means that we have a moral obligation to protect the weakest, our children, we have a moral obligation to shape the whole world for children and to ensure their healthy upbringing. We cannot allow certain crazed doctrines or people with truly perverted worldviews to impose their hideous ideology in kindergartens and schools. It is our responsibility as people who understand what is right and what is wrong, what is good and what is bad. We can still put forward our arguments here for four hours, those people who do it still don't understand. They'll never understand. We can read them the results of a lot of research here and hope they look at them, and they don't understand. They're so obsessed with common sense and what's good and what's right that they won't understand. Our task is to protect normality, all the more so because on the normal side, the majority of Estonian people are absolute. It's as simple as that. Now, this is a separate subject. I've been arguing with a couple of homo-activists who I've also asked if they think they're growing up on trees or being taken like potato tubers. Homos can't have kids. I've been told about surrogates and how to have children so I can shut my eyes and think about something else and make my own biological child. And then I can take this baby home. What's it about? It actually tells us that there is a primal need for every human being to have another generation, to have heirs, to leave the world to his own flesh and blood, so that he can do something in life. I honestly say that I do not think there is any point in doing anything in this life unless you are able to leave your legacy to your children. Everything else is meaningless, empty work and mind chewing. And it is quite obvious that those who have sexual attraction to the same sex also have the same need. At least a lot of them. And that's why they're unhappy people, I totally understand that. It is not up to us to make the children unhappy to ease their sense of disaster; it is up to us to say, we will see to it that the children are first good, and then that we try to alleviate your concern. Surrogateism is a form of human trafficking, so not all countries in the world criminalise it. I spoke to a medical doctor who came up with surrogate math some time ago. He said who these parents are when, for example, there are a couple of men who want to have a child through a surrogate. They have their sperm taken, they're sent to a lab somewhere frozen, they're transplanted to a woman. It may not be just one woman, it may be done for several. Frequently, conception is not followed, then repeated tests are performed. There's doctors, there's nurses, there's four or five people directly involved in this whole process, plus a whole bunch of intermediaries. Which one of these people is the mother or father who pushed the syringe in somewhere, or the one who gave one of his cells to use, or the one who carried the baby? It is also often the case that the egg is fertilized inside one person and that fertilized egg is raised into another person who carries it to the end of pregnancy. It's a crazy world we're building. After all, we may have the medical ability to accomplish such things. Just recently, I read the news that we also have the medical ability to resurrect people from the dead, perhaps to recreate electrical impulses in the brain and turn the kidneys on. But do we have to do all the things that medicine allows? The child still needs a mother and father. The right thing to do is to have a child's mother and father as their biological parents. To say that we can make people of the same sex, with some medical miracle tricks, have a common offspring - it's still a long way from reality. It's a twilight zone where we live when we talk about such a thing with a serious face. We should not allow this to happen under any circumstances. We have a whole bunch of people, regular straight couples who live together stablely, but for health reasons, they can't have children. The fertility process is actually very expensive and complex. We focus our energy and our resources on these people having children, not on people with a very strange world view being satisfied with their very selfish claims. All other people must behave in a standard manner: they must have a stable relationship, they must be with their spouse or partners, they must bear their children themselves, they must give birth, they must raise them, they must take care of them. These are the things we all do. Then there's gonna be some guys who say I'm gonna pay somebody $40,000 in Vietnam, and they're gonna bring me a beautiful little baby like a puppy dog. It's so twisted. And if people don't realize it's retarded, there's nothing to do. In my opinion, it is very difficult to correct these people, just to say that please don't listen to them. Their story is so bad, don't listen to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U170	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U171	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Martin! Here's the question. Most men are known to be in detention facilities in Estonia. If they are married, a woman has the right to visit her husband and is given some time to be together. What do you think would increase the desire for inmates to marry if such a bill were approved? And how should the right of married people to spend time together be expressed? Would it be a violation of human rights if they were not allowed that time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U172	Thank you. This is, in my view, a very illustrative question, which also shows how many unintended or unforeseen consequences of the Cohabitation Act and the sidelines that start up, which make society more complex and incomprehensible and create a number of functioning structures. Yes, if I remember correctly, there are about 3,500 prisoners in Estonia and only a few hundred of them are women. The so-called gender-neutral partnership agreement, of course, also takes into account the fact that the partners are intimate with each other. I can't imagine that prison would ban these people from demanding private time and private space. At the same time, we all know that this private activity is practiced in prison without a partnership agreement. Life is prosaic and brutal even without the help of the legislator. I repeat, this is one of those areas that shows that when we start to turn the whole world upside down, all kinds of things start to fall and go rogue. We don't have to do this. Just don't have to do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U173	Thank you, dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Mark Soosaare, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, as co-rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U174	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft submitted by the EKRE was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 11 April and, unfortunately, I have to say that there was not such a deep, so fantastic and so witty debate. It was quite dry and boring and unsurprising. But to sum up all this, I would say that I also heard today's Martin Helme performance, I certainly want to congratulate his biological father and his biological mother on such a gifted child, because on 11 April Martin, who answered the questions, did not yet know whether or not the cohabitation law was in force, but today he de facto confirmed that it was in force. There was no doubt about why he wanted to cancel it. The proposal that remained on the agenda was as follows: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 3 May. Unfortunately, this was not the case, because the man who stood before you and had to report it, for health reasons, could not do so then and asked for the draft debate to be postponed for a week. The Commission also decided to propose that the draft be rejected. There were 6 votes in favour, 4 against and 0 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U175	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U176	Thank you, manager. The rapporteur from the Commission. Did the Commission also discuss how to get out of this ridiculous situation? It can't last that long. It is as if the law has been passed, there are no implementing acts. When will the Commission come up with a concrete solution to put an end to this in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U177	That's a good question. This is a burden on both the opposition and the coalition, or let us say, as a whole, on the Riigikogu, where, unfortunately, we do not work very well. But how to put an end to this subject was not discussed at the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U178	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U179	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U180	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U181	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended and we are going to the final vote. Imre Sooäär, is there a procedural question? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U182	Thank you. I have a procedural question. The world is changing around us sometimes faster than we know. A very large part of the statistics that Mrs Helme has read here are no longer true at this time. Half an hour ago, the Italian Parliament voted in favour of the draft law on the same-sex civil partnership with a vote of 369: 139. Would it be possible to carry this verbatim so that people are informed and can make a decision based on their conscience?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U183	Thank you, my good colleague. This, of course, was not a procedural question. But let's go to the final vote on the bill. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission 185 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 36 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U184	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party Group requests ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U185	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 185 at first reading. We are going to vote on this proposal. But first, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U186	It is a matter of morality, ethics and a red line that cannot pass without the fundamentals of society, the real European values and the destruction of culture. In addition to everything, the Cohabitation Act is a legal failure. To waste time, we could really deal with the necessary and important things, such as the problem of how to increase the birth rate. Or is the Cohabitation Act a major issue because the coalition lacks the vision and skills required for Estonia to carry out important things? It has been argued that if same-sex people cannot register their cohabitation, this means discrimination against them. This was rejected by Chancellor Jõks as early as 2006. Neither the Estonian Constitution nor the international or European legal provisions that form part of the legal order give rise to the right of homosexual couples to require regulation of the same-sex partnership. Under current laws, they can also regulate their relations with the notary. There is no need for any cohabitation law or law of a couple that threatens and undermines the concept of real family and marriage. The arguments of the Free Party about the law of the couple that they have presented as a middle road or as a balancer are naive. That is not what the homos themselves want, not even the voters of the Free Party, who are allowed to defend traditional family values. Should the supporters of the Gay Marriage Act succeed in pushing through implementing legislation, more than a million people in Estonia need a vomit bag, whose moral beliefs you detest and insult. But you can be sure it's all coming upon you. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that common sense will win and you will vote in favour of repealing the law on partnership. I especially want the strength of those honest people who find the courage to stand up to the homodictate of their party. Finally, we are indeed of the opinion that the Gay Act, the Cohabitation Act, does not apply because the implementing acts have not been adopted. This is clearly stated in the Article of the Cohabitation Act. This position is also supported by the Minister of Justice. However, we came up with this draft annulment precisely because we have a number of parliamentarians and some political parties who think it is still valid despite everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U187	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! Recalling the last debate on the annulment of the Cohabitation Act, I brought a gift to Marianne Mikko, a vomit bag from Turkish Airlines. He was puked by arguments for supporting a traditional family. I took a match cup for Mihkel Raud because he threatened to set someone on fire. But I'll only give it to him on condition that he puts the law of cohabitation on fire, as it says here. I'll hand these things over later. The world is based on polarity, and humanity exists only because of the existence of different genders. The arguments about the possibility of gender neutrality are absurd. The idea of a gender - neutral society is based on a lie, as if there were no gender differences and it was as if a person could choose his own sex. That's not true. Sex is not something that a person chooses but an undeniable biological fact, regardless of whether someone likes it or not. The attempts to disengage gender roles have a negative impact on people's psyche, family institution and society at large. In the face of the demographic crisis in Estonia, this is extreme and irresponsible. The sex is determined by parental chromosomes and cannot be altered by the feeling of being in the wrong body, by any surgeon, no matter how well he fits or cuts off the penis or breasts. It's ridiculous to encourage gay and lesbian couples to imagine that their life together is no different from their traditional marriage. Even the richest and most successful couples of their own kind can never cope with what a man and a woman in a normal relationship can't have children. Even the richest same-sex couples can never offer their children what the poorest, but normal husbands and families can: be a real mother and father. There's nothing to replace them. The number of people who want and have registered a partnership for today is almost nonexistent, but even so, the majority of the population is trying to savagely cross over, divide society and label the other mindset into into into intolerant and extremists. However, the attitudes of a normal society and generally accepted moral standards are not extreme. Homoapologies are extremists. In the case of gay couples, they want to ignore the logic of the evolution of the survival of society and demand their right to children as a social benefit, which would make their life together more perfect. At the same time, there is a silence that children also have rights. They have the right to have a mother and father and to grow up in a normal family where their gender identity, values, and perceptions are not tilted by any fiction about gender neutrality, their gender or any other perversion. It is our duty to protect children and children's rights. What has happened in other countries shows that the adoption of the Cohabitation Act is merely a prelude to legitimizing homomarriage and granting such couples the right to adopt children. But what happens next? Where's the border? In the Netherlands, perverts want to legitimize pedophilia. The Youth Association of the Swedish Liberals, the Reform Party's Brotherhood Party, has declared that incest, sex between close relatives, and necrophilia, sex with corpses, must be legalised. There are some perverts who want to legitimize zoophilia, or sex with animals. Will they soon also be minorities who must not be discriminated against because of sexual orientation, who must be allowed to do what they want to do in the name of equality and human rights? Maybe some people think they should even be allowed to marry an object of their abnormal desire. After all, we must be tolerant and uncritically embrace everything that you call European values, but which does not really have anything in common with values. Everyone here who represents the left-liberal homoagenda is opening Pandora's box. There are no special rights to free sex from the control of mind and morality. This is not about tolerance, equality or human rights. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U188	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U189	Thank you. Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U190	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the draft Act 193 amending the National Death Support Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The rapporteur is Marika Tuus-Laul, member of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, let's calm down! This item has nothing to do with the previous item. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, if anyone really needs to speak, it can be done outside the big hall, in the lobby, but in this hall, we're listening to the waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U191	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the draft of the Estonian Centre Party Group No 193, the draft law amending the National Death Support Act. Its content is correct, in short, to restore the payment of the funeral allowance as it was before 1 July 2009 when the allowance was paid in the event of the death of all Estonian residents. Thus, it is a one-off grant, namely a grant based on a fact, such as a birth grant. As a reminder, a national funeral allowance was introduced in Estonia in 2000, after our accession to the Council of Europe's Social Security Code, but in fact, the funeral allowance was paid earlier and for many years under the regulation. In the Republic of Estonia a regulation on the award and payment of the Funeral Allowance was adopted on 22 June 1993. I would remind you that the young and poor Estonian state found this money 23 years ago to help families who had been hit by this difficult event, or the loss of a loved one. I also recall that in 1993, the annual budget of the country, if taken in euros, was just EUR 262 million, or EEK 4.1 billion, compared to today when we are talking about EUR 9 billion. But you see, they found the money. However, in July 2009, the payment of funeral allowance for a natural person with an additional budget was frozen because of the economic crisis and only the local authorities were paid the money that could bury unaccepted people or unknowns. At that time, the amount of the funeral allowance was EUR 191. This remained so until 1 January 2015, when, a few months before the elections, funeral allowance was also paid to those who were beneficiaries of income support and whose family had suffered this sad event. We think it's a good thing that this was done, and that Minister Helmen Hunter was honored and praised. But, of course, it is very little, because if we look at the bill, we can see that only about 560 beneficiaries of income support received the funeral allowance. That's right. We now want to restore the funeral allowance as it was before. This support existed for very, very many years, essentially for the first half of the whole period of independence until 2009. Why are we doing this, and why do we want it? In order to rule out the question of why we do not support the poorest and want to pay for all deaths, I would remind you that organising a funeral is very expensive. This is costly not only for beneficiaries of income support and people with difficulties in coping, but also for those with the most common income. Imagine that. One example is the inevitable costs: digging the grave is from 200 euros, the average price of the coffin is 110.325 euros. I have a list of services here, of course, but I'm not going to read everything to you. But, in the middle, more or less a decent funeral costs €600 to €800. If you want to make a wake, there's gonna be more money. And, of course, people have no place to take that money, especially if this event happens suddenly and unexpectedly. So people are in real trouble. They've taken fast loans, and they've collected all kinds of donations. By the way, we know, for example, that there are people who are not even able to buy out the urn, because they don't just have money, and they're looking for every possible reason to give up buying out the urn. That is why we believe that funeral allowance should be paid in the event of all deaths. And just as in the plan that we have proposed, it is still being done in a very large number of countries. I've had my research done here. Most people try to pay 'universal', but there are also countries, such as Lithuania, which first pay universal support and, in addition, additional support for the target group in difficulty. It is estimated that our draft will bring an additional cost to the state budget of EUR 3.68 million, but I would like to stress, however, that the problem is very, very serious. And if you've been seeing people, you know that there's always a lot of questions about the pension index and then about the funeral allowance. After I handed over this bill in this Chamber, I received a call from several people who were all hoping that this law would be passed. In the Commission, we have votes 5 to 5, so that people would still be happy to have this support. And I thank Helmen very much for voting in favour. Of course, it's a shame the IRL and the Reform Party didn't. The law would enter into force on 1 January 2017, and my proposal is that we do this together and restore this support. Such support is indeed an elementary need for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U192	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! This subject is not as sexy as the previous one, the subject of gay marriages, but death affects everyone, regardless of whether it is a homosexual or a heterosexual. My interest as a former grave digger is this: have you taken into account how much the Estonian state has saved in these years by withdrawing the funeral allowance? Can it buy a new ferry or more now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U194	Thank you for your question. As far as the ferry's concerned, we need to figure it out. But here is an example: 15467 people died in Estonia in 2014 and 15400 people died in 2015. For example, only 467 people received the funeral allowance last year. When the 15400 were together and we divorce it, we can see that nearly 15,000 people lost that support. But the order of magnitude isn't as big as 3.68 million. I would still very much like to stress that when we sang the Republic of Estonia together, the state paid funeral allowance to everyone for years, and it was not such a small amount, but we did it. But now, suddenly, when we're richer, and very much richer, unfortunately, we find that we can't do this anymore. By the way, as far as grave digging is concerned, the prices of grave digging begin at EUR 200. And I can also read the prices of other services to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U195	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U196	Thank you. Dear colleague, can you tell us what the situation of funeral grants in the various European countries is? Can you take a look or tell me how they're doing? We're in the same union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U197	First of all, I gave the example of Lithuania, because Lithuania is a special country that pays both universal and separate poverty support when a person asks for an extra payment. But yes, it can be said that most people still try to pay funeral allowance. I can start reading from country to country here. In Austria, for example, the maximum rate is EUR 436 and 4 cents. We take Bulgaria: husband, children, parents are entitled to a one-off benefit in the event of the death of a family member, and this is the sum of EUR In Estonia, as we know, it is only paid to the less insured, i.e. recipients of income support. Spain covers some costs. In the Netherlands, the allowance is paid for one month's full salary in the event of the death of the employee and for pensioners. In Croatia, EUR 438 is paid. In Greece, the person who incurred the funeral expenses is paid EUR 759 and 52 cents. Cyprus also has one-off compensation: EUR 507 and 81. In Luxembourg it is EUR 1007 and 72 cents. Latvia also pays, but they have it linked to the 'insured package', there are different packages. Poland pays a one-off compensation of as much as EUR 955, France EUR 3400, Portugal EUR 213, Romania EUR 269. We can continue: Slovakia EUR 79 and Slovenia EUR 270. Finland pays mostly to people who have died because of an accident at work. We know that there are also big salaries and big pensions. Denmark costs EUR 1394, the Czech Republic EUR 184, the United Kingdom EUR 2823, Norway EUR 2500, etc. These are the figures, such aid is paid. We are, indeed, a poor country, but, as I said, we have also paid it when we were very, very poorer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U198	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U199	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I totally agree with you. As the former district manager of Lasnamäe, even from my experience, people really turned to the question of when the funeral allowance would be restored. Perhaps you can help us remember in the past that under what conditions this support was withdrawn and what the government said at the time about when it could come back. What were the arguments put forward by the government's representative committee, which is why the people of Estonia do not need this type of support? Indeed, it is very difficult for an old person to organise a funeral that can cost more than EUR 2 000. What were these arguments in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U200	As far as our recent meeting of the Commission is concerned, frankly, there was just one question about the wording of the draft. Mostly, I asked questions repeatedly from a representative of the ministry, and when a representative of the ministry could not answer, I answered in his place. That was the case in the Commission. So we didn't get any answers from the Ministry there. And when the vote went on, like I said, five Members were against, but I didn't understand why they were opposed when nothing was asked. But in its time it was that it was 2009 and one of the first cuts that had been made was the cutbacks of the municipalities and the funeral allowance was also taken away. They say we're going through a tough time with a pampering name. In fact, there was an economic crisis. Yes, I understand that it may have been difficult at that moment, but I do not think that, even in a time of crisis, such a thing can be taken away. But then they said it was temporary. At the moment, the Ministry is telling us that it wasn't meant to be a temporary solution, it was meant to be taken away. This shows that, in fact, when I look at the huge length of the list of all the grants that were withdrawn in 2009 with several additional budgets, many of them have not been restored. So it was just found that now it's good to take them off and tighten them off to how many times they're worth, and they haven't been put back.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U201	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U202	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Dear waitress, I've had the luck of not burying anyone in the past. But as far as I can tell, funerals are a pretty expensive activity or a huge economic thwart, which, of course, usually hits people even at a time when they are emotionally in a very difficult situation. Do you have to bring us, or can you talk over, what are these normal, average amounts for a single funeral that people have to take into account when such a thing happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U203	Thank you. For the most part, all costs are inevitable. And I can tell you, for example, about the coffin, which we had already mentioned, that the cheapest casket costs about EUR 325 for a more or less dignified funeral. Digging the grave is from 200 euros. If you go into detail, the cleaning, dressing and makeup of the deceased is around 150 euros, the funeral car 45 euros are different, depending on which one you are taking, the day of the cold chamber is 10 euros. There's gonna be a chapel rent. If you choose incineration, the incineration price will be 500 euros. So it's not a cheap option at all. People think cremation is cheap, but not at all. But what was impertinent in the past was that, when the funeral allowance was taken away, VAT on funeral supplies and services was raised during this very time of crisis. Before, the value added tax (VAT) on funeral supplies and services was 5%, but then it was raised from blow to 18% and, as you know, after 20%. That's how it is until today. In fact, many different tax levels are still being applied in Europe, but unfortunately we have remained the same. Let's say two shots were in one shot. And it will be extremely difficult for people to cope with these prices if we add that Estonians are still in the habit of making a little wake table, remembering the deceased and talking about him. You know how expensive these days are to have this little gathering. So the funeral is extremely expensive, and it is also expensive for families where at least two members receive an average salary. It's still way over their heads.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U204	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U205	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, You mentioned that the representatives of the ministry could not answer questions in the Commission. One might assume that if the Commission comes to discuss a specific subject, it should still be kept informed. Perhaps in a few words you will recall those questions to which the representatives of the ministry did not have answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U206	Thank you. I guess I understand the Ministry's officials. They're just going to come forward and I understand their difficulties. They're trying to explain things somehow, but it's actually a political decision. I do think that, in the case of such drafts, the Minister should still be present and state these reasons. But what the representative of the ministry really repeated on several occasions was that everything is a matter of political choice. It was that simple. And actually, here is the question of political choices, but sometimes I also wonder if there are people who vote in the same way in one group and then, a few years later, when another group is overslaught, suddenly in a completely different way. I don't understand that. And I also do not understand when people talk on the ground and when they meet pensioners, how necessary it is, but in the Commission they vote the other way around. Yes, it doesn't make any sense whether there is a question of worldview or some other, pragmatic reason. I don't know what these reasons are. In any case, I think that non-payment of funeral allowance is already a matter of national culture. After all, we must understand that we must have compassion. Yeah, these dead guys aren't gonna sound any more, but it's an elementary matter of courtesy, ethics and culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U207	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll read the potential costs in this explanatory memorandum. It is good to compare these expected costs with those of our reserve funds today. According to your proposal, the additional cost would be 3.68 million euros in next year's budget, with which we would actually help the majority of Estonian society, because the average funeral will also cost approximately one Estonian median salary, 600.800 euros, according to the explanatory memorandum. This support was abolished during the economic downturn in 2009. At the same time, our economy has grown so well and successfully that we have been able to make a decision in one day to allocate 2.8 million from the reserve to Turkey and 2.5 million have gone to the Ministry of the Interior to build up the refugee structure. Perhaps in one week, 5.3 million were allocated without any problem. Perhaps you could point out what may be the reasons why the Estonian government has not wanted to help most of Estonia's society?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U209	Thank you. Unfortunately, as has been mentioned here, these are political decisions. But we did, in our opinion, very well that we brought this bill here during the hall when the government is still considering the budget for next year. As we know, the budget really gets bigger every year, and here the government is faced with choices in terms of whether they care about people or not. We cannot compare these sums with anything. I think the funeral is something that needs help in any case. But as far as money is concerned, think for yourself now if the funeral hits a family with a minimum wage of EUR 430 or even an average salary (i.e. EUR 1105). The average salary doesn't really show anything, because only certain people have a high wage, the poor have a low wage. So really, we have to look here at the median payment, which is now EUR 733 and on its surface the government should, in any case, find this money. I think he's got time to find it now. I very much hope that this draft law will not be rejected, because the Commission still had 5: 5.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U210	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U211	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We see very clearly how old age is becoming a luxury in Estonia. People cannot actually afford a dignified old age, especially when they are left alone, especially when they do not have children or when children have left abroad. My question concerns the same luxury with regard to funerals. Very many people would like to bury their loved ones in a much more dignified and beautiful way, but they just don't have any money. Would you give the reasons why the politicians and the political parties who oppose this bill are standing up?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U212	Thank you for your question. You see, that's the way we just had the last law in this room, and we didn't even know the reasons why they were against it. They take it really cold, they just don't have anything in the hall, they don't want to know, they don't explain, they don't explain, they don't ask. I mean, let's do it, it's just this roller and there's nothing to say. Of course, when we look at where poverty is greatest, we see that ex 65+ is among people living alone and also single mothers. Indeed, it is still very difficult for them. And let's remind ourselves that older people once had all kinds of retirement savings, but then they were younger. However, people have not had such great savings to cope with funerals. It's not easy at all, we can't get that much out of our pension. So older people should necessarily be helped. And if an older person may have tried to pick up a little spare, think about it when death comes to the family very unexpectedly. I have an example here. On January 24, there was an article in the evening paper that is very sad to read. The family writes that prayers for help usually begin with the words "help save," but their story is sadder. A child was born to a family who died at 9 months of age. The parents couldn't work anymore, they were together at the hospital night and day. And no support came from anywhere. Consider how difficult it is to cope with such situations. Everyone wants to send the deceased away in a way that doesn't leave anything to scratch the soul. We know that the Estonian is somehow trying to do everything, and then he will go and borrow in the final trouble. Young people take fast loans or whatever can happen here. So it's just really sad if we don't do it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U213	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U214	Thank you. Comparisons are often very colorful and almost always help to understand the situation in which we really are. That's why you did the right thing when you also mentioned the amounts of public subsidies paid in other countries. But I would like to clarify whether there really is a one-off funeral allowance of nearly EUR 4,000 in France or whether you were wrong with a few thousand.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U215	The one-off payment was EUR 3400 in 2015. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U216	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U217	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Dear waitress, I'd still like to ask you again. As I understand it, the votes in the Commission split in half. Who are the parties and those MPs who have promised their voters to support this proposal, but when there is a decision-making place, they disappear? In my opinion, it was also said at length in our previous conversation that, if there are still electoral promises, then to come forward with the fact that there is no money, it is not like it is very serious. We have the right amount of money in our country for all kinds of other things, but when we talk about political choices, they must still be in line with political promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U218	Thank you. One of the reasons, which is always said, is that we still cannot give such pervasive support here. But it's not quite obvious: you have to write a statement, and you still get the support of those in whose family this thing happens. If you look at the Commission, yes, maybe the voices were divided by the worldview. Once again, I am very pleased that Helmen Kütt voted in favour of this bill. And I'm sure he thinks it's necessary. The second thing, of course, is how we vote in this Chamber, what decisions have been taken in the group. But it is clear that the IRL voted against in the Commission. It's all the weirder that when I've been with a lot of these people at election meetings and heard these stories, these people have nodded and said yes, this thing has to be done. But if there is a presence on this committee, you will not be able to raise your hand for the time being and then you will be counted as a vote against it. That's weird. And I don't think the Reform Party will even consider it. I was also looking at this member of the Reform Party Commission, from whom I would have very much expected, however, to vote in favour of this draft, or at least not to vote in favour, but he voted against, saying that there was even a large number of these subsidies. But when we used to work together in a group, he was very much in favour of subsidies. So these are the kind of pictures that open up to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U219	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, how do you see how much support we should have? You've counted a lot of countries here, where and how they pay. How much could we have a national funeral allowance if we decided this way? That's one thing. The second thing: so far, the system has been such that many municipalities have paid this support themselves. Can the municipality still decide to pay it back? Is it possible to receive both benefits in some municipalities, or how?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U221	Thank you. Yes, we can see that support would be as high as it is now for people who are struggling, or EUR 250. It's not that much money, but it helps, as they say, and helps a lot of people. As far as municipalities are concerned, this overview is very difficult to do. We should probably have 218 municipalities and how about somebody. We know that Jõgevamaa helps, the city of Tallinn helps and many other places help. I'm sure most places help. We are talking about state funeral support now, because we know very well that municipalities have no money, but are trying to help in some way. As far as the responsibilities of local governments are concerned, as you know, we still have this law ahead of us today. Nowhere has it been written down that municipalities should pay the funeral allowance. They're just doing it, but that commitment isn't written down anywhere. So there are certainly places that do not support or help, and there are places where there really is no money to help. We know we have very small holdings. So one thing is what the municipality pays in the old days is that the municipality could always pay in the public funeral allowance, but we are still talking about the obligation of the state to its people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U222	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U223	Good manager! Good waitress! This law was passed in 2000 and at the same time Estonia joined the Council of Europe's Social Security Code. My question is whether the adoption of the National Death Allowance Act in autumn 2000 was the result of the adoption of the Council of Europe's Social Security Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U224	Yes, I think they were based on each other at the time, although I say once again that this support was paid earlier in the Republic of Estonia. In the years preceding that, i.e. 1993/2000, the small aid was paid. But I can tell you, we didn't have much of that support before. I also remember from the time I was in the Committee on Social Affairs that the European Commission specifically drew Estonia's attention to the fact that funeral support is too low. Yes, we received universal funeral support, but this support was too small and was also discussed very thoroughly in the Commission. Mai Treia was the chairman of the commission at the time, and I remember that after this order of magnitude was raised. So, yes, there is certainly a connection here, but the question is also that once we have adopted the relevant European documents, we have a duty to Europe to comply with them. It can't be that we're just somehow playing, that we only pay one person. I remember that when this support was withdrawn, it was said that our municipalities were paid to see the funeral of the unfamiliar dead, we had the support. This is how you can always play in the papers that there is support in Estonia now all the more so that there is support for people who are struggling to cope, but in fact no one gets help. We've had a lot of laws in this form. However, as far as the Social Charter is concerned, to some extent it is also linked to funeral allowance. After all, it is the problems of older people that we have not ratified, such as coping issues, etc. This is a painful point and I would certainly like it to be ratified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U225	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U226	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I may have missed something earlier when you mentioned those countries where subsidies are paid. I do not want so much that we compare ourselves with the so-called 'old European welfare countries'. What about our "fate mates"? Do you have any information on whether and how much benefits are paid there (e.g. in Russia, Ukraine, etc.)?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U227	Thank you. Now let me see if this table says. I've been specifically allowed to do this in our legal and analytical department. There's no way Russia's coming out here. But we were talking about Latvia. Our "fatemate" Latvia pays this support according to the insurance package. These insurance packages are of several sizes. It's very complicated, as Mailis Reps explained to me. But in Lithuania, it is this system that we should take as an example. Indeed, there is universal support in the event of the death of all people, plus a great deal more. So I would certainly like to give Lithuania an example. Of course, it is also worth mentioning Slovenia with EUR 270 and Romania with EUR 269. We can compare ourselves with these countries here. Of course, we do not want to think, or do we want to think, but we cannot think so that we can compare ourselves with France or other major countries, such as Germany. But a little support would certainly be needed, because, you see, we still have extremely high poverty in Estonia. We know how poor people are. When it comes to relative poverty, one in five people live in relative poverty in Estonia, and one in six children live in relative poverty according to 2011 data. We took the numbers out here. Then all these studies were thoroughly carried out, and now not all are being carried out. 4,1700 children lived in relative poverty and 1 in 11 children in deep poverty. After all, child poverty is an indicator of family poverty. Maybe you're wondering why I pointed out child poverty, but that's what family figures are for. So we have poverty, but we are not talking about people's livelihood and well-being. These are the categories that will be reviewed and all they say is that public finances are in order. It's thought that people will live well. But public finances, first of all, are not okay, and if it's okay, it's at the expense of the people. After all, that is the fundamental question that we have a great deal of poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U228	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U229	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Once, as a local government manager, I saw every day, really almost every day, that people had a need for funeral support, and not only the underprivileged people to whom it was paid by the state. In fact, we have a large part of society that is underinsured and needs help. Unfortunately, the government and the coalition of power have their eyes closed to the distress and need of these people. Can we then simply say that the government and the political parties in power, contrary to what they say, do not care about the concerns, problems and needs of the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U230	Thank you. That the need for funeral support is great, you know, as a former head of government. After all, we have received a letter from the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Municipalities asking for the rehabilitation of the funeral allowance, as it is necessary. But I think that if one party is in power for 20 years, he won't think too much about what he's gonna do with it if he doesn't support people and cuts every budget. It wasn't just 2009 and 2010 that was the year of the cut. After all, we still have the cut years, and with all budgets, we see the cuts being made from here and there. Let us look at all these costs and how the tax system has been changed, how taxes have been cut and indirect taxes have been raised at all times. The figures are no longer exactly remembered, but you remember all these increases in excise duties on fuel and the enormous increase in electric excise duty, how it is four and a half times the minimum requirement of the European Union. How many times do we have fuel excise? Definitely over ten times or more, even 18, I think. That's it! And they only think about how to take something away from someone, but not how to bring wealth to Estonia, how to contribute to production, how to help find new markets, after all, nobody does. I sometimes look at these young ministers, maybe there is a lot to ask of them: they do not have this view of the world, such contacts or anything like that. There's a will, but there's no power, they don't know how. So the Estonian state does not, in principle, want to think about how we can grow the Estonian state, how we can get richer. We want to get to the Nordic countries and the richest countries quickly, but we are basically the first in the five poorest countries in the back.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U231	Thank you. The question is justified, but the Commission did not have much contact with it, because the government representative was an official who said that the choices would remain in the hands of politicians. At this meeting, politicians only confirmed their choices by voting, the result of which was not to support this bill. The result of the vote was that there is no need to give this support to everyone at national level. The opinion of politicians and non-supporters of this bill is probably summarised in a letter from the government or in a proposal that states that public funeral allowance should be paid as social support to those who are underinsured economically and suffer from deprivation. Therefore, as of 1 January 2015, the national funeral allowance has also been paid to funeral organisers who have been awarded income support during the month in which the funeral allowance was applied for or during the 12 months preceding the funeral allowance. This approach ensures that only those who are known to need it can receive public support, and therefore it cannot be considered justified to pay universal support to everyone. It is also noted that the Ministry of Finance has expressed the view that the narrowing of the number of recipients of funeral grants compared to the system in force before 1 July 2009 was not intended as a temporary solution to ensure the balance of the state budget during the economic downturn and that there are no changes to these principles. This probably means that the funeral allowance will remain needs-based.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U232	Thank you. When a group or a group of opposition ambassadors presents a new draft, they ask where to take the money. Was there no mention in the Commission of where money could be found to help people? I mean, VAT has not been 20% in all these years; it used to be 5 to 8%.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U233	Good waitress, there are still questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U234	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's like the reaper went over the hall. But I hope that's not the case. We started today with the lifting of the homo law, and now we have come to death, and we are about to go to administrative reform or, to put it in rural language, to rape the country people. I am thinking of forced administrative reform. Yes, Estonia is ageing and this is a very serious problem. During a recent visit to Pärnumaa, Tõstamaa we visited both the nursing home and the rescuers. And there in the relatively far-off province, the place fee for the nursing home was higher than the monthly salary for fully viable rescuers. This means that if they had to go to a nursing home, they would not have enough money. If we now go one step further and come to death, then indeed, very many have the problem of not having enough money for funerals. Besides, it's an unexpected step, plus an emotional moment. I've been through this myself lately, and I've seen it side by side. This is a very serious problem. The fact that we are sitting here right now and we are about to press the button is really a matter of political choice. As I understand it, the votes in the Commission split in half. I looked at the materials of 2000 and an interesting observation came out: in January, the Estonian Council of Europe adopted the Social Security Code. Reading this code that we have adopted, it finds, for example, the moment that the funeral allowance comes under it. And there's a commentary on it, that's twenty times the man-skiller's pay per day. In the same year, active action started to establish a national funeral allowance. I looked at the protocols. On 8 August 2000, there was a government meeting, and as a fourth point, the draft national funeral allowance was presented by none other than our good colleague Eiki Nestor. I regret that a good colleague, Nestor, is not chairing the sitting today. Otherwise, it would be possible to ask him how he felt on 8 August 2000, when he presented the draft law on state funeral grants at the government meeting. And there he said that by adopting the law, the legal hole that exists at the level of the law will be eliminated. Indeed, as was decided on 8 August 2000, when Eiki Nestor presented the draft law on state funeral allowance, it was also adopted on 8 November 2000 in this very Chamber. True, nine years later, support to balance the state budget was eliminated, resulting in people who were underprivileged being buried in collective graves in many parts of the world. That was the price of the balance of this state budget. Now, if you look at how much the country has saved from losing public funeral support over the past nine years, I made a small piece of work and got $3.68 million. Let's say 3.5 million a year, which means a ferry, which, in the autumn, I hope, in time, will appear on the line. So the government has saved the price of one ferry during this time. Is that good or bad? We have universal child benefits and maternity allowance, but at the same time... Just give me a few more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U235	Yeah, please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U236	Good waitress, it's really happened that there are no more questions. Thank you. I now ask Raivo Põldaru, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U237	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the National Death Allowance Act on 193 Tuesday, 3 May. Kaili Hendla, adviser to the Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was invited to the meeting of the Commission on this matter. As you have already heard, Marika Tuus-Laul, the representative of the initiators of the bill, introduced. And I think that thanks to what he said, you got a very good overview of the draft and, in particular, with answers to the questions. After the presentation of the draft, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was given the floor, who presented the views of the Government of the Republic on the draft Act amending the State Death Support Act. The Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft initiated, mainly on the grounds that the state should not pay funeral allowance to everyone, i.e. universally, but only on a need-based basis. Well, you see, there's probably a lot of questioners' answers that the government's reasons for not supporting the bill. The organisation of social benefits, inevitable social assistance and other assistance is also the responsibility of the local government unit under the Social Welfare Act. The local government, as the administrative body closest to the person, is best able to assess the person's needs and to help those who do not have enough resources to arrange a dignified funeral for a deceased loved one. Many local authorities pay funeral allowance in the form of separate social benefits, while in some municipalities people can apply for one-off grants to organise funerals. The representative of the Ministry also added that as regards technical changes to the European Union citizen's law, the government does not support the complete deletion of the relevant provisions from the National Death Allowance Act, but should be replaced by a different wording. The initiator's representative then expressed the opinion that this could still be State support, as the capacity of the municipalities is different and they are not always able to pay the subsidy. On this point, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that this was a political choice, and the government is currently of the opinion that the state should only pay support to those who are underinsured economically and suffer from deprivation. For them this amount, which was mentioned above, is 250 euros this year, which the Riigikogu will approve when adopting the budget law. The Commission also expressed the view that both birth grants and funeral grants should be universal grants. It was also asked that several European countries have national universal funeral grants. The originator's representative replied to that then, I think you have received an answer to it today, even during questions, where and what amounts are available. The chairman of the committee put to the vote the first reading of the draft proposal. The result of the vote was as follows: in favour of 5 and against 5 members of the Commission, the proposal was therefore not supported. At the meeting, it was also proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 10 May (as of yesterday) and that the draft be rejected (with a vote of 5: 5, as you have already heard from Mrs Tuus-Laul today), and the speaker was appointed to be the rapporteur before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U238	Thank you. And we're gonna keep going. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U239	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! We would certainly listen with interest to what was discussed in the Commission on these political choices when we talk about the amount of money that can show respect for our people and support people in such a very tragic case, which is the death of a loved one. It would cost a ridiculous amount if we compared how much money has actually been spent there and there and in the third place. There will soon be a decision on our table, which will guarantee EUR 22 million for the Banking Union, by the way. Did the coalition ambassadors explain the reasons behind their political decision? Why do they not support such a noble initiative, and why do they oppose helping the people to such a small extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U240	This was not directly mentioned in the Commission. However, indirectly, the answer, as well as the reason for the rejection, is precisely that the drafters had not identified the budget line from which these expenditures could be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U241	Good waitress, thank you! There's no more questions to ask. I'm opening negotiations. Please beg the representative of the Estonian Central Party Group of the speech chair of the Riigikogu Peeter Ernitsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U242	... in the other half of life, or rather, at the end of life, they are no longer topical and can be saved at the expense of death. Yes, dying anyway, and no one will be buried anywhere, even in a common grave. And it's easy to say that municipalities do. Indeed, it is their duty, but we have heard today how much national funeral allowance is paid in other countries of the European Union. I am not going to talk about Norway or France, where these amounts exceed the limits of fantasy for Estonians, but in Greece they pay EUR 759 and 52 cents. And we mean it, we discuss it and we press the button here as a guarantor for Greece's new debts, if it pays EUR 759 and 52 cents for every Greek's death. I think we should! And if the Commission had 5 votes: 5, then this means that Parliament is divided into half, and Helmen Kütt is in favour of this support and also Eiki Nestor, who presented this bill in 2000. That is, yes, the question of political choice and I hope that you will still make the right political choice today and press the button by approving the restoration of national funeral support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U243	Thank you. I now ask for the Riigikogu's chair of speech by Jaak Madison, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U244	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think the scythe has gone over yet. The scythe comes from here at five o'clock in the morning, but there are still a lot of people in the Chamber. The proposal of the Centre Party Group is absolutely necessary. We actually felt déjà-vu in the Conservative Group, because we read this bill as part of our own programme. This has been a very close subject to us. We also played a very important role in the electoral programme, because it is a topic on which there has been a great deal of feedback from society and pressure has come from below to restore this support. If we go to the causes of the loss of the funeral allowance in 2009, then at that point it was clearly justified as a temporary measure to really get out of the economic crisis as quickly as possible and with less damage. Today we are talking about expecting growth of almost 2% next year. We are saying that there is no economic crisis. We are saying that the euro area is in a stronger position than ever before. Grexit is canceled and Greece remains in the euro area. We will jointly pay EUR 86 billion to Greece from one pot, we will rescue them. Therefore, there is no crisis and there should also be no basis for restoring funeral support. Now, seven years later, all the assumptions have been made. And if it is a question of political choice, then the question arises as to why it was not lost before 2009, before the economic crisis came. The government department, the leading party, has been the same, after all, the Reform Party. The question is, how much longer, but he is now. It cannot therefore be a matter of political choice. The second question is whether other political parties are putting pressure on the Reform Party, the weak and the weak, and they are dictating that, for God's sake, we must not restore this support. When I heard here the author's explanation that even the representative of the Social Democratic Party in the Commission, Mrs Kütt, supports this initiative, I assume that the Social Democrats are on the side of the Centre Party and even with us on this issue. In this case, however, the question arises as to whether a small party with only 14 or 15 seats in this Chamber is really dictating the government's work on this issue, or whether the coalition partner in the seemingly minority will tell the Reform Party that funeral support must not be restored. That should be clear between us. The government's in there and it's broken up, it doesn't get along very well. Maybe tonight will connect them a little better, at least for one night. It could be explained who are the brakers and the greatest opposers of this good and noble initiative. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiators have well pointed out the calculations that this would be expected to cost EUR 3.68 million next year. If we recall how much taxpayers' money spends a year on our political parties, i.e. EUR 5.4 million, I would say that this amount is a pinch. And if we're gonna get upset that we don't have any money, Jürgen Ligi would ask where we're gonna take the money, then I'd say, in answer, we're gonna take it from the parties. Our proposal was to stop funding political parties from the state budget at all, but, well, we would also compromise and go along with the Free Party proposal. The Free Party has somehow disappeared from this place, but they'll hear. We would then unanimously support their proposal and halve the funding of political parties, or EUR 2.7 million. The remaining EUR 2.7 million would have been found on the ground, and we could make the people, society, feel that we really care. We care about our society, of which 21%, or 280000, live in relative poverty. If a person earns a minimum wage today, according to the law, he does not live in relative poverty. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U245	Yeah, please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U246	Thank you. 280000 people live in relative poverty. A large majority of people earn a median wage of EUR 600 (more precisely EUR 630). And if the average funeral costs 600 to 800 euros, then it's like if your mother dies, you have to take a SMS loan or ask your neighbor if there's a neighbor who can lend it to you. However, if a neighbor earns a median wage or even less, there is nowhere to take money. I think that in this case it would be EUR 250 with a very high proportion, because half of the aid is better than nothing. Without this, we would make society feel that even on the last journey, which is already tragic for its loved ones, this tragedy will increase even more, because you really have to go and borrow EUR 600-800 to bury your loved one. In that case, I don't think everything is okay in our society. I think that it is not okay in society if, at the same time, we have no problem paying EUR 183 million to the European Stability Mechanism to save Greece for a few years until it still drowns. We will not be okay if we pay 2.8 million to the Turks who put this money in their pockets and accept immigrants in return. I don't think it's okay if we hold on to the current funding of political parties with ten nails, because otherwise we wouldn't be able to keep our political partymen on the party payroll. This shows the degree of social cohesion, our democratic failure or only the ripening period. Restoring funeral support would only be a small step forward towards a stronger and caring society. I very much like the social democrat expression 'careful Estonia'. And I think that if the Socialist Group also supports this very good initiative, then we are moving towards a caring Estonia on this issue. On some points, we have the opposite view, but on this point we are certainly one hundred percent on one side with you, and this shows that cooperation between two different wings is also possible. For caring Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U247	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Mark Soosaare!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have noticed that Estonians are very excited and maybe even sexually excited when they can talk about money and recalculate it into money, whatever happens in this world. I don't know how to do that, and I'm afraid I'm not getting any excited about it either. I listen to this talk and I wonder if a person's life really is worth a few hundred euros to celebrate his departure, whether it covers these costs, etc. At the same time, in such a small country, in such a small country, and in the case of such a small nation, every life is important. We value the beginning of life, but we should thank everyone who has lived here at national level, too, but we cannot always thank financially. Maybe it's worth thinking about a story Lauri Lees told me. After they were deported to Siberia in 1949 and their grandfather died there after two weeks of starvation, Mother went to the village but failed to find the coffin. So he bought a closet for 500 rubles and buried his father in the closet. I guess everyone has a choice. If he can, he will take the hoe and the tables of the Christmas tree and, following the example of Jürka at Hell Bottom, plan the box for the deceased member of his family, or he will order a very expensive oak coffin. But the coffin could actually be on the side of the country and decorated with national symbols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U249	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 193 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of this vote, but before that, Martin Helme, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U250	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. The Conservative People's Party would like a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U251	Thank you! Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U252	Good fellows! The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. We're on the second item. We are on the way to the vote, which is proposed by the lead committee, with the following content: to reject the draft 193 at first reading. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission of laissez-passer 193 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 51 members of the Riigikogu, 34 against and no abstentions, the proposal found support. Thus, the draft 193 has been rejected at first reading and will fall out of the procedure. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U253	We will move on to the third item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. But first, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U254	Thank you. Ten minutes before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U255	Okay, intermission ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U256	Good fellows! The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. We are on the third item and on the final vote. Since the third item, or final vote on the draft 191, requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership, we will do a verification of presence before the final vote. Checking for presence. Aborting presence check. A procedural question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U257	Thank you. I have the question of how long should a signal be signaled before the vote. Some of the chairmen are gonna signal two minutes before the vote, you're gonna give them one minute. Is there a general rule or what happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U258	Thank you. Before the vote at least one minute or two is better, but at least one minute. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] We're gonna do a presence check. 73 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 28. I will put draft 191 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 68 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents or impartial parties have been adopted as 191 laws of the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. The third item is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U259	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Riigikogu's decision to grant a loan to the European Single Resolution Board, submitted by the Government of the Republic. I ask Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U260	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. No amendments to the draft were received by 5.15 p.m. on 27 April. We have made some linguistic clarifications to this draft with the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Commission unanimously decided to support the draft and proposes a second reading...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U261	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen! Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U262	I did not go where I indicated that the Commission unanimously decided to support the completion of the second reading. I'm asking you to do the same! This law requires 51 members of the Riigikogu to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U263	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Good waitress, please don't leave the Riigikogu's speech chair! Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U264	Thank you, Speaker of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U265	Greetings!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U266	Good waitress! This introduction of yours is now short, and it has been a long time since the first reading. We have many items on the agenda, the workload is still enormous, and all materials take their time. As this is a very weighty and important decision that the Riigikogu must make, perhaps it would be useful for all of us if you explain to us again a little more specifically what is the content of this draft and what was discussed at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U267	Understood, Mr. Madison, of course! This is a draft decision of the Riigikogu on lending to the European Single Resolution Board. The maximum loan amount is EUR 22 million. And that doesn't mean we're writing this loan out of the state budget right now. This obligation arises in the event of a banking crisis in Europe and is needed in a period when commercial banks that are currently making payments to the Board have not been able to make all their contributions. It's just for this interim period. I will reassure you, Mr Madison, that no disbursement from the budget of the Estonian state will be made immediately. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U268	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U269	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good colleague! Last week, I was at a meeting of the Board of the Guarantee Fund, where the size of the contributions from the same resolution fund was discussed. And there came up with this kind of awkward story that the Ministry of Finance had looked at the formula a little wrong, and actually we should have that amount (they didn't know exactly yet), either 30 or 31 million. However, it was discovered so late that there are currently 22 million in the bill. Would it not make sense for us to withdraw this bill now so that this amount can be corrected as the formula finally shows us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U270	Thank you. It's hard for me to comment on the stories about the meetings you've been to. There has been no official letter from the Ministry of Finance to me, nor to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, saying that this amount has been either miscalculated or miscalculated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U271	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to open negotiations? It is. I'm opening negotiations. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U272	I'd like to take some extra time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U273	Yeah, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U274	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I have, yeah, a bit of a feeling that there's been a little bit of talk today. With regard to this resolution fund, it should be explained a little bit more about what we are dealing with. According to me and our party, once again this is about putting a small mine under the Estonian taxpayer. Let's start with the sum and put it next to the sums that we were talking about in the previous draft law on funeral allowance. The Estonian taxpayer will be given a possible obligation to pay 22 million euros. And while the question of whether to grant a funeral allowance of three or four million euros a year is being discussed, all the opponents of this bill are immediately faced with the question of where the money will be taken from, or the money will not grow on trees. So if it is impossible for us to find nearly ten times less money for the people of Estonia, but the same amount is found for banks without difficulty, then I think that the priorities in Estonian society, or at least in government, are clearly out of place. Sorry, you can't blame society here! Another great story, of course, is what this resolution fund is all about. Of course, we cannot fail to say here that this is another directive economy. And I want to remember here, with a bad word, the former Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, who was thrilled that he succeeded in joining the European Banking Union. This has brought us a huge burden of directives, obligations and legislative changes, which we will probably be yapping here for a long time in the coming years. And this burden is, of course, divided between the public sector and the banking sector. We are not very comforted that banks will be obliged to pay some kind of fund, because unless you are the European Central Bank, the banks themselves will not generate money, it will not be printed, but the money that the banks will move or put into some kind of fund will ultimately be customer money. At a time when European banking, the European Central Bank and other banks in the world are dealing with a very strange experiment called 'negative interest rates', depositors are not going to earn anything anyway by keeping their money in banks. And we know that Estonian banks earn most of their money on fees. Since the average Estonian person does not have large amounts of money that move over bank accounts, interest is not received anyway, but for every move you have to pay money and this is the main source of income for most Estonian commercial banks. That raises a big question on its own. While traditionally banking has earned money and interest on profitable projects, while investment banking has done direct investment and making money on it, today it is no longer the main source of income for banks, but the money is simply taken out of the client's pocket. So when we're told that don't worry about that money coming out of the taxpayer's pocket, we still worry, because that money comes out of the normal person's pocket. The banks won't get that money anywhere else. However, the nature of the resolution fund is indeed, as the rapporteur here told us at first reading and has now explained again, the'multiple safety net', that if this system starts at one point, it is as if two or three phases should have been completed before the taxpayer is attacked. First, of course, shareholders or owners should pay, then the fund should pay itself. And if there is no money coming from the fund itself, or if there is not as much money in this fund as is needed, those countries that have been so enthusiastic that they have given the fund a guarantee, as the current draft foresees, should pay the tax payers. The fund itself is EUR 55 billion, and it should be able to save all European banking if we are to be hit by the banking crisis. A little clarification should be added here that the amount collected from Estonia is reserved for Estonian banks only, and this amount is not very large, of course. As I have already referred to in my question, it has turned out that this formula, given to us, is a small prank or a prutsk, i.e. it was not so easy to calculate the amount. The formula initially concluded that the total amount to be collected was 22 million, of which 6 million have already been collected from banks this year. But when the formula came to a closer look, it turned out that the amount of money had been missed by about 10 million. This is now a somewhat embarrassing story, because we know that if we have the Minister of Finance in Sester's remote control here, he will always assure us and we will all believe him that there are very good experts in the Ministry of Finance, people who are perfectly proficient in the mechanics of both Estonian and European finance. But ignoring a result of almost 50% on the basis of one formula does not give us the confidence that all the numbers offered to us by the Ministry of Finance and all the forecasts we hear from them are quite correct. There is a proposal to support this bill, but we certainly cannot support it, because it is to put down a mine for the Estonian taxpayer and to prioritise it wrong. We have a number of more important things than banks that we could support with Estonian tax money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U275	Thank you. Any more calls? All opinions are welcome at second reading. It is. Henn Põllamaas, on the spot or on the remote? You're on both lists right now, but you can only choose one. Got it. I would like you to join the Riigikogu's Chair of Speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U276	Ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council. Since the question arose here earlier that it has been so long since the previous reading that, in the meantime, it has been forgotten what exactly this decision of the Riigikogu contains and what is written in the explanatory memorandum, I am happy to remind you of all this. This is the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled 'Getting a loan to the Single European Resolution Board' 197. On the basis of § 61 (1) (2) and (5) of the State Budget Act, the Riigikogu decides the following. Point 1: 'To grant a loan of up to EUR 22000000 to the Single Resolution Board, which manages the European Single Resolution Fund (SRF), we have heard here that this amount is perhaps quite different. H.P.) with a maturity of 31 December 2023 to cover the possible resolution costs of Estonian financial institutions during the collection period of the Single Resolution Fund. ' A bit of a surprise, of course, to cover such costs, because we know how our operating foreign banks take hundreds of millions of euros out of here every year as a profit. So does the state have to support them? It's very suspicious. Point 2: 'Remuneration of the loan of 0,1% of the outstanding annual loan balance plus interest on the drawn-up loan. " On the loan that was drawn up, not on the total. Point 3: 'This Decision shall enter into force upon signature. ' Under the bill: 'Eiki Nestor, President of the Riigikogu. ' Okay, we're getting to the bill's explanatory statement. explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on granting a loan to the European Single Resolution Board. Point 1: 'Meeting in the Steering Committee between first and second readings. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 14 March. The first reading of the draft was also held on 13 April. (So there was a month between the first reading and the second reading. H.P.) The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading, including on 2 May. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline of 27 April at 5.15 p.m. The Committee on Finance made an amendment to the draft by adding a provision for the entry into force of the decision at the time of its signature. The text of the draft has been translated into linguistic and technical specifications. ' Item 2: 'Procedural decisions and proposals of the Management Committee. The Committee on Finance... (There are a lot of spelling errors here. 'The Finance Commission has proposed' instead of 'the Finance Commission'. Mr H. P.)... proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda for second reading, including 11 May. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and to put it to a final vote. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the decision. ' And according to the explanatory memorandum, the chairman of the Monetary Commission, Remo Holsmer, will present the bill, which he did. I would add... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U277	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U278	Thank you. This is a very important draft and, as we have heard from the previous speakers here, there are quite a number of worrying issues in this regard. First of all, this amount, do we have to pay 22 million...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U279	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's really a lot of noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen or read or think about it! So once again, please respect the waitress! Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U280	... and needs to be repeated so that we can still make a decision on the basis of all available sources. In paragraph 1 of the explanatory memorandum, 'The procedure between the first reading and the second reading' refers to what the procedure looked like: 'The Government of the Republic initiated the draft, including on 14 March. (On the day, which also has a different historical meaning. J. M.) The first reading of the draft was also held on 13 April. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at second reading, including on 2 May. The deadline for amendments, 27 April at 5.15 p.m. (Even 27 April has become a historic day in recent years, i.e. another bad omen. Mr J. M.), no amendments were tabled to the draft. The Committee on Finance made an amendment to the draft by adding a provision for the entry into force of the decision at the time of its signature. (Smart amendment, congratulations! J. M.) The text of the draft has been translated into linguistic and technical specifications. ' They were not enough, still errors are inside. The following point is 'Procedural decisions and proposals of the Management Committee': 'Committee on Finance... (We propose finalising drafting amendments and sending out correct second reading material. J. M.) The Committee on Finance proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda for a second reading, including 11 May. (Fortunately, we did indeed arrive at this question within the calendar day of 11 May. J. M.) The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and to put the draft to a final vote. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the decision. ' There are now two questions. He is going to the final vote, but should we also stop reading it? On the basis of all the arguments and threat assessments presented here, we are certainly of the opinion that we should not stop reading the second reading. And we hope that during the evening, at 8:30 a.m., there will also be light on the faces of many members of the Riigikogu who really choose not to support this bill. Therefore, the Conservatives are jointly in favour of not supporting this draft in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U281	Thank you. I now ask Raivo Põldaru to proceed with the resolution of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U282	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We have a very nice and constructive bill before us, but I still want to draw attention to a few things that give rise to little doubt and hesitation. First of all, the mistakes that have slipped into this place make me doubt that maybe there are other mistakes here besides those that have already been highlighted. We are talking about making mistakes with these millions, but perhaps there is also a question of whether this money is even meant for this Board. Maybe there's something else hidden around here, and the government has been thinking about using that money somewhere else. But if it is really meant for the European Single Resolution Board, it can be very good. You know, we also have crisis places in Estonia, and if such a European Council is going to resolve crisis issues, then perhaps our agriculture will also be helped in a crisis situation. Maybe it's a good place for us to hope for ourselves. Although my colleagues here previously thought that this bill should not be supported, I am even inclined to remain on the other side. Maybe it's good to support it and we can even benefit from it. Although we are talking about the need to guarantee and help banks, there is another opposite view that supporting banks is not very good, because they have already taken their share of the income from Estonia. If we now want to help them on this issue, it will be even more difficult for the taxpayer, because where these banks are still picking up this income, if not from the pockets of our customers, they will pick it up slowly. And hearing that banks must also guarantee large sums of money for times of crisis, it is not excluded that the fees of our customers may rise and thus make life even more difficult for people. So shouldn't we here on Toompea be thinking about how our people would be easier to cope with in life? Perhaps to give the money directly to them, just as the government coalition has thought with its direct sums of money, we leave more money in people's hands, we lower income tax. Thus, a person has more money that he can use to his advantage and at his own discretion. But here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there have been contradictions in the theories of this government before. On the one hand, people think about leaving more money in the hands of the people, but on the other hand, the laws take more money away from the people again. It's not bad when the money's running around, but a little bit of the money's going to be bad. After all, the money is spent, the more people touch it, and printing it is quite expensive. There will be further announcements that new banknotes will be released, which will be slightly smaller than EUR 500. The 500-euros are done, they are no longer needed, because they are mostly used in black deals. So I think that the issue of money circulation in the future deserves more attention from our legislators as to whether it makes sense to speed up this cycle in this way. I thank those who have listened to me! In particular, thank you personally for listening to the neighbor, Mälberg, and, of course, Maire, the former neighbor. I'm very flattered that you heard me. See you next time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U283	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An amendment to draft 197 has also been received. We will begin the examination of the amendment. The first amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U284	We ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U285	Okay, intermission ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U286	Good fellows! The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. We are in the process of reviewing the amendments to draft 197. We are on the subject of the first amendment, which has also been asked to be put to the vote. Dear colleagues, I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, which has been tabled by the Steering Committee to take full account of this position. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was supported by 56 members of the Riigikogu, against 6 and 1 abstention. We have examined the amendments. Let us move on to the decision of the commission that a final vote should also be taken at second reading of draft 197. Good fellows! Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U287	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party Group requests a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U288	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U289	Good fellows! The requested break of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended. We are on the verge of a final vote on draft 197. Good fellows! Draft 197 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, so before the final vote we will carry out a verification of the presence. 73 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 28. Good fellows, I'm gonna put a draft of 197 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 58 members of the Riigikogu, 6 and 7 abstentions have been adopted as 197 decisions of the Riigikogu's decision to grant loans to the Single Resolution Board of Europe submitted by the Government of the Republic. The fourth item is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U290	Thank you. Please, yes, the attention! This has come from the government, and I hope that the coalition parties will also respect the government of their choice and the drafts it proposes. So let's talk about this a little bit. It is very difficult to decide whether to accept it or not, because 22 million or 31 million are still huge sums on our scale. Especially if, as Mr Helme said earlier, we do not find such money to solve the problems and concerns facing the Estonian state, we will not find ten times less. However, we will find tens, or even hundreds of millions, of millions, as well as 1.3 billion if necessary, for the ESM, where the wealthier countries are financed, their loans. And, to remind you, just recently, the EUR 200 billion that has gone to Greece, for example, was spoken in Sanomates Helsinki. In fact, the Greek state has received only 10 billion in substance to promote its own life; the remaining 190 billion have simply gone to pay off the wrong decisions of Germany, France and also the English banks, the wrong business steps. I believe that when we are talking about solidarity, there could be solidarity with the Greek people, but not with those banks that have irresponsiblely granted loans to Greece, and now, with twists, they are demanding that money back from the entire European taxpayers, from 500 million people. Just as my party partner previously proposed not to support this draft, I also appeal to you in good faith that this 22 million will be needed for us, for the well-being of our own people and for the promotion of Estonia's life. Thank you very much and let us vote against this draft together. I hope so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U291	Thank you. I now request the Riigikogu's speech chair Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U292	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is said that repetition is the mother of wisdom. This bill certainly deserves to be read, especially where there are spelling errors. In the case of such a compelling draft decision, it should be unacceptable for the second reading material to come out of the Committee on Monetary Affairs where the word 'financial committee' has been miswritten. I think that is already bad before this draft decision as a whole. Why? Because for some reason all decisions concerning the allocation of money from the Estonian state budget or the granting of a guarantee tend to end badly. And where there is already a path inside, there will always be a slight distrust and scepticism about all the new decisions, which could equally blow a hole in our stabilisation reserve, which currently has 400 million, because we could lose 5% of it if there really is a new crisis in the banking sector. So guarantee of EUR 22 million. Today, we really do not allocate a cent, unlike the millions that need to be sent somewhere in Turkey or somewhere else or in a third place. It is now a guarantee, but no one will promise us that this guarantee cannot be turned into reality and to be executed. I think it turned out very right that, in the case of the previous item on the agenda, where we spoke with a finger about the allocation of money for our own people, there was a very strong opposition from the coalition, of course, there is no problem of diverting 22 million from the guarantee, although the banking sector should actually be responsible for bad investments and therefore bear the costs itself. This should not be a problem for our state budget and taxpayers. If we take the start of this draft decision, what do we see? What does the first point say? 'To grant a loan of up to EUR 22000000 to the Single Resolution Board, which manages the European Single Resolution Fund, with a deadline of 31 December 2023, to cover the potential resolution costs of Estonian financial institutions during the collection period of the Single Resolution Fund. " Therefore, if this decision is to be executed, we must wait about seven years for the money to be recovered. By then, the overall survival of the euro area will be questionable. If you look at the last month's announcements about the situation in Greece, you must be particularly optimistic, a little naive and beneficent, to believe that the euro will remain in its current form and the eurozone for seven years. So the question is, if we borrow, will the money come back? If so, what amount, in what form, in which currency? This is already one of the threats to which attention should be paid. Second point: 'Remuneration of 0,1% of the outstanding annual loan balance plus interest on the drawn-up loan. ' I'd say a very pessimistic percentage: instead of 0.1, it could be 0.3. At least then we could expect a little bit that if, in 2023, there is still hope of getting the loan back, then we could also apply for a higher return. Of course, most importantly: 'This decision will enter into force when it is signed. ' Obviously! If we make an explanatory statement... I would also like to take a few more minutes, because this issue is extremely important...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U293	Yeah, please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U294	Let us move forward quickly to agenda number five. The second reading of the 200 draft law on administrative reform initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Siim Kisler, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu. [[The excitement and the buzzing in the hall, somebody's laughing.]] Good waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U295	Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft law on administrative reform was 20 April and by that date the Centre Party tabled 52 amendments, EKRE 60, Free Party 53, IRL six and Social Democratic Party 13 amendments. In addition, members of the Riigikogu Jüri Adams six, Igor Gräzin two, Andres Metsoja, Toomas Kivimägi and Mark Soosaar submitted two proposals together, Mark Soosaar, Kalev Kotkas, Imre Sooäär, Rainer Vakra and Aivar Kokk together with two amendments, Riigikogu members Kalev Kotkas, Mark Soosaar, Rainer Vakra and Sven Mikser together with one and Mark Soosaar, Heljo Pikhof and Kalev Kotkas together with one amendment. Amendments 2, 3, 4 and 9 were discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and all proposals were examined. During the debate, IRL withdrew one proposal and the Group of the Social Democratic Party withdrew four amendments. On a proposal from the representative of the initiator, the Commission decided to propose another amendment to the draft, which consists of a number of parts, see section 10 below. In addition, the Commission decided to include amendments that are identical and are essentially related to each other in the list as a single proposal and did so on the basis of § 102 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The amendments that have now been taken into account. The Constitutional Commission took into account five amendments by the Estonian Central Party Group. They concern the simplification of the maintenance and formation of the city as a type of municipality, the abandonment of the use of the term 'nuclear city' in the draft law and the date of entry into force of the draft law. The Commission took two of the amendments tabled by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia into account in part, four in substance and two in full. The partial amendments concern the consideration of cultural and geographical differences in the merger of municipalities. The amendments taken into account concern the simplification of the maintenance of the city as a type of municipality, the clarification of the wording of the amendment to the Local Government Organisation Act and the dismissal of the municipality and district manager. Five amendments tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica were taken into account in substance. They concern the setting up of a committee which makes recommendations to amend the administrative-territorial organisation, the possibility of uniting municipalities without a common border, the simplification of the maintenance of the city as a type of municipality, the abandonment of the term 'core city' and the dismissal of a municipality or district manager. Of the proposals made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the Commission took into account one in part, six in substance and two in full. The partial amendment concerns the functions of mayor or parent of an internal establishment unit. The amendments taken into account concern the simplification of the maintenance of the city as a type of municipality, the possibility of joining municipalities without a common border, the competences of municipalities and district councils, and the appointment or dismissal of a municipality or district manager. The amendments which have been fully taken into account concern the taking into account of the insularity of the merger between the municipalities and the rights of the representative of the municipality and district council. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself is with order number 10, as I have already said, and it consists of 35 points, which I will mention some of the most important. I would point out that point 10.4 of the proposal gives the municipality the opportunity to initiate a merger without a common border in the first phase, if it is known that the Government of the Republic will join them in the next stage between the municipalities. Point 10.7 of the proposal amends the procedure for maintaining the type of administrative unit and deletes from the draft the requirement that at least 5 000 inhabitants be resident on the territory of the city if the city as an administrative unit is to be maintained or restored. Point 10.8 of the proposal replaces the deadline for the introduction of the new statutes of the newly formed municipality with a later date. Under point 10.13, the word 'nuclear city' is replaced by 'city' because the word 'nuclear city' has caused a lot of misunderstanding and opposition. In addition, point 10.17 of the proposal gave the possibility to introduce a new statute instead of four months in the case of a municipality formed following the merger within six months of the announcement of the election results. I will also highlight point 10.20. It adds one paragraph to the Local Government Organisation Act, according to which the investments or development activities agreed in the Accession Treaty must also be included in the municipality's development plan. Many have had uncertainty about how it is ensured that the new elected council will actually accept and implement the investments agreed in the Accession Treaty. The approval of the development plan with the mechanism provided for in the law will give more certainty. Sub-paragraph 10.24 amends the procedure for the appointment of a municipality or district manager and the procedure for dismissal with the following sub-paragraph. It shall include consideration of the opinion of the municipality or district council when it is appointed or dismissed. The main amendments have now been highlighted. The procedural decisions were as follows: The Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to submit a draft for a second reading by today, 11 May. The Commission proposed that the second reading be closed, six in favour and four against, with no abstentions. The Commission decided to endorse the table of amendments and to add it to the draft as it is available to all of you, and there were six Commission members in favour of the decision and five against, with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U296	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U297	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I have a request. Please state the arguments why the Commission did not support all the amendments tabled by the Free Party and by Jüri Adams, in summary, amendments 2, 5, 16, 25, 33, 35, 38, 44, 51, 52. Of course, please comment on each proposal separately on why it was not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U298	However, I am trying to generalise because you yourself said that we are talking about the amendments tabled by the Free Party. They concerned different areas, such as cutting up Tallinn or taking account of the results of the survey and other areas. However, the general reason why none of them could, unfortunately, be taken into account is that they did not agree with the logic of the administrative reform mechanism described in this law. If they were taken into account, this draft law would no longer have been such as this, and these were not proposals of this kind. Other parties suggested, for example, that a longer time be given to the merged municipality to approve the new statute, etc., and this could be taken into account without fundamentally changing the content of the draft law. Unfortunately, the Free Party did not put forward such proposals. As I read before, a number of amendments from other opposition parties were taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U299	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U300	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Mr. Kisler! To what extent was the Commission concerned possible changes that the Government of the Republic intends to make or initiate at regional and regional level in public administration? What tasks will be left to the county governor in the future, and what will be handed over to the county authorities? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U301	Thank you. These issues were not discussed within the framework of this draft law in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as neither the points of this draft law nor the amendments to it directly concern these areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U302	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U303	Thank you. Good performer! In the draft law, the minimum size of the municipality is set at 5000 inhabitants. In addition to this criterion, the minimum size, are there other reasons for which the Government of the Republic may refuse to establish a new municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U304	It is certainly not the intention of this bill that the government refuse to set up new municipalities. Rather, the aim is to create new, larger and more capable municipalities. But when it comes to options other than the minimum criterion of 5000 inhabitants and the indicative criterion of 11000 inhabitants, it is stated that if you look at the draft in its current form, five possible exceptions, including sea islands and others. The list is beautifully available in § 9 (3); it contains all exceptions. Moreover, those local governments which, for whatever reason, decide not to join and also not to accept the proposal of the Government of the Republic for accession have the opportunity to put forward reasoned considerations as to why they do not wish to join on the proposal of the Government. There is also a point in the draft law that says that if the government considers that the considerations of the municipality are really justified, it can consider the arguments and also close the merger procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U305	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U306	Thank you. Mr Siim Kisler! You know Ida-Virumaa well and its peculiarity. My question has nothing to do with the bill. I would like to know your opinion on what principles should form new municipalities in Ida-Virumaa. Cities, such as Narva, Sillamäe, Kohtla-Järve, Kiviõli, Jõhvi, are not subject to the rules that 5,000 11000 people must live in the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U307	No major accessions to this draft are prohibited, but, on the contrary, favoured. And larger municipalities than 11000 inhabitants are even rewarded by this bill. This means that it is well favoured, and that the municipalities that currently meet the minimum criterion will nevertheless join. By the way, the experience of the Danish administrative reform, the merger of municipalities, showed that small municipalities merged and the larger ones wanted to join in order to become even greater and maintain their competitive advantage over the smaller ones. There it is very well understood that the higher population is a competitive advantage in the competition between municipalities. As far as Ida-Virumaa is concerned, one of the topics is the separate parts of Kohtla-Järve, separate parts of the city. And I really hope that the content of this draft is that the representatives of local governments are negotiating and can make all the decisions themselves, that it is still very basically going through what the borders will look like in the future. People wonder if any part of Kohtla-Järve could be part of a rural municipality or vice versa, the territory of a rural municipality or at least part of it would be connected to the city. The draft law offers all kinds of opportunities, i.e. it can also change borders by parts of the territory and design mergers, even at a voluntary stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U308	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Mr. Kisler! How much were dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as regards the substantive preconditions for the merger of administrative units, such as the location of centres of attraction, natural factors, economic conditions, as well as demographic factors? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U309	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U310	It was the Commission's decision. The Commission supported the inclusion of a single distinction concerning the possibility of setting up a combined municipality with at least three municipalities on the island, with a total population of at least 3500 inhabitants. This was supported by the Commission. There was also a rewording of the distinction, which was laid down in particular in the draft in view of the creation of historic Setumaa university. Why were others not supported? My personal opinion is that there are too many exceptions, I don't think there should have been one. All of this only causes confusion and unequal treatment. However, with regard to more specific proposals, such as the 32nd proposal, that the criterion of 90% has been met, this essentially means a new minimum size criterion. If today the minimum size is 5 000, then if we consider this amendment today in this Chamber, the minimum size is just 4500. Then it would make more sense to write it in honestly, not make a mistake here to put a minimum size and then say that you have to fill it in 90%. This was a justification for this proposal. Amendment 29 is essentially a question of Piirissaare. The government's representative felt that the border island should definitely join someone because, in its current form, they are not sustainable. Amendment 27 was intended to provide for the possibility of joining at least two local government units, which form a logical whole and have a total area of at least 500 square kilometres. Why add such small municipalities? If it is referred to as large territory, there is nothing large for two municipalities of 500 square kilometres. The size of Estonia's average municipality with, of course, complex boundaries is about 10 x 20 kilometres, or about 200 square kilometres. A total of 500 square kilometres is not a problem in Estonia at all. This proposal would essentially mean a very vigorous relaxation of the minimum criteria. This is why the Commission did not support these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U311	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Looking at how the Commission has ignored many of the amendments, it seems that the Commission has been quite rigid and inflexible. For example, we could look together at the 32nd proposal presented by our Pärnumaa colleagues Metsoja, Kivimägi and Soosaar. They suggested that the minimum size criterion could be met to 90% and that accession would be possible if municipalities formed a logical whole. Or the 27th and 29th proposals on the distinctions between islands or municipalities with a relatively large surface area, which form a logical whole. Maybe you'll tell me why these differences are so narrowly taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U312	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U313	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U314	Thank you very much. Honourable answer! Did you also receive an answer in the committee to the question of when the law amending the sectoral laws will arrive at the Riigikogu, which, according to the explanatory memorandum to the draft, should include any amendments to the specific laws necessary for the implementation of the administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U315	This was discussed in the Commission at a general level. I must admit to you that I did not hear very specific dates, but it was said that if the Riigikogu meets in the autumn after the summer vacation, there are also specific proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U316	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U317	I think it would be better to ask Jaak Allik himself why he believes or doesn't believe in anything. As far as I can tell, this is a relatively atheistic person. It's hard to tell what he believes. But it is once again a question for the initiator of what negative effects the initiator has foreseen. The concept of administrative reform certainly describes different options and options. We in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were not asked about this kind of question from the originator's representatives, so I am not going to speculate here. I think that the merger of municipalities into larger ones is certainly positive, but, as has been said here today, some mergers may not be the best option for the local population. I don't see anything going directly on them. Rather, the question is that merger decisions can be made in such a way that people can benefit very much, and they can also be done in such a way that the benefits remain small. I think it's more of a difference. I do not know that the deterioration of something directly has been seriously highlighted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U318	It got a little messed up, what exactly was the question? According to this draft law, regional committees are formed by the Government of the Republic. The original draft was that the committees form the Minister of State Administration and, in essence, he has already done so. The bill would change this situation. Who's gonna be there, I guess we'll see soon enough. However, it is certainly impossible for representatives of one party to be included. That sounds like a pretty incredible argument. As regards the substantive debate on the Free Party's amendments, these proposals were presented by Artur Talvik in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. He was given this opportunity at every point. At each point, he was given the floor and listened to his views and, if necessary, asked for more. It is certainly not true that there was no debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U319	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U320	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, In Estonia, the self-government reform has been prepared for 20 years. During this period, there have been a number of reform programmes, albeit county-based, tensile centre-based. Studies have been carried out for several hundred thousand euros, but the reform agenda you have chosen is the most unsuccessful option that could have been proposed at all. Firstly, the only criterion is the number of inhabitants, i.e. the change of boundaries. Secondly, the reform agenda is completely empty, there is no ambition. New municipalities are basically formed on the basis of friends and political parties. There's no logic in that. Why did you choose the worst option?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U321	Thank you. The draft we are discussing today has been submitted by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu. My opinion as one of the members of the Riigikogu, say, partially agrees with you. I think there could have been more ambition, could have been a little bolder to tell you what a merger should look like. As I pointed out earlier, the bill does not make stupid decisions, but maybe leaves a little more room for it. But we act in good faith that representatives of local governments make good decisions that are beneficial to the people. Surely, it cannot be claimed that it would in any way be water-drinking or based solely on groups of friends. The draft has been submitted by the Government of the Republic. We can either support it or not, and we can also propose the necessary amendments. This is quite an ambition for Estonia. If Denmark, which has large municipalities, has set many examples here. They did about the kind of reform we're doing now in 1970. And the Danes have comforted us, so don't worry, you'll get the first one done, but you'll do the second one later anyway. I think I agree with you that in a period of time we will come back to this issue, just as happened in Latvia. In Lithuania, a very ambitious reform has been carried out in the immediate greater volume, with the Lithuanian authorities now being one of the largest in Europe, and there are no such debates. Those countries that have made so-called softer reforms will start to talk about a new stage in time. However, in order to protect this bill, it could be said that four fifths of the local governments in Estonia are smaller than 5000 inhabitants, i.e. at least 80% of the local governments in Estonia are affected by the bill in one way or another, and this is still a very large part. It's just so bad that if we get a thousand and five thousand, it's actually a very big step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U322	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U323	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The code of good regulation and regulation provides very clear guidelines which need to be assessed when drafting a draft law. The explanatory memorandum must also assess whether the draft has a positive or undesirable effect. Paragraph 46 (1) of the Law states that social impact, including demographic impact, must be assessed and analysed. I find in the explanatory memorandum that the draft has a positive impact on demography, but it is only said that the number of local government employees will change. Please explain what positive impact the draft will have on demography.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U324	Thank you. This was not directly discussed in the Commission. It is a pity that you did not put this question to the initiator of the draft at first reading. I do not currently have an explanatory statement at first reading at hand. If you remember, it was very thick and it was very thoroughly dealt with various aspects and I am quite convinced that all the technical requirements were also met. In addition, there is the concept of administrative reform, which answers all kinds of questions, and this is a more comprehensive document than the explanatory memorandum to the draft at first reading. To comment, the impact on demography is always difficult and difficult to assess for the various draft laws. However, if our citizens are also in a more level playing field in those regions where there are currently municipalities that are able to offer fewer local services and opportunities, we will see that people are therefore leaving there more actively, then surely, as the capacity of local authorities becomes more equal, they will be better able to fulfil their obligations. It is not before the Riigikogu or the central government that the municipalities fulfil their obligations, but before their residents. If they are able to offer more to their inhabitants, you can believe that it has a certain positive effect on demography.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U325	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U326	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The weakest or most vulnerable categories in society are school pupils and pensioners. How will administrative reform improve access to education and social services in new emerging counties or regions? How will funding and the framing of administrative reform be ensured by these points?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U327	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Mr Kiisler, The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft to the Riigikogu called the Administrative Reform Act. When I look at the substance of this law, it starts with goals. The objectives are to lay down the basis and procedure for amending the administrative-territorial arrangements. When we examine this draft by section, each section contains provisions relating to the modification of administrative-territorial arrangements. I understand the coalition's attempt to write the administrative reform into its own name, but wouldn't it be fair to call this bill the 'Administrative Territorial Reform Act'?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U328	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! You yourself have been a very senior minister, a long-standing government minister. The Social Democrat Jaak Allik is also a very long-standing minister with experience. He considers this administrative reform to be such a purely mechanical approach. He doesn't see any substance on it, he thinks it's more of a problem. But in every analysis that has been carried out for a very long time and the administrative reform has actually been prepared for at least 17 to 18 years, the negative effects have certainly been highlighted. What do you think these negative effects will be if something doesn't work out? Why does Jaak Allik still not believe in this reform? He's your coalition partner.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U329	A proposal to change the title of this law was initially presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and was not supported by the initiator. He explained this by stating that there were also several provisions in the draft concerning the organisation of the municipality. Here are a number of amendments concerning the Local Government Organisation Act. As has already been said, there was also talk of skilled municipalities and, for example, village and village elders, for which there are amendments. The amendments are about the Administrative Division Act of the Estonian territory. So the amendments also concern other issues. This was one of the arguments against it, as well as the fact that the law on administrative reform is generally more convenient and understandable for people, a understandable term for ordinary people. The more complicated title of the law does not change much, the ordinary person would still call it an administrative reform law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U330	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U331	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, In order to smooth up the administrative reform, a carrot is offered to outgoing mayors and rural municipality elders who receive compensation for up to one year's salary. What, though, awaits the city secretary and the parish secretary, who have often worked in these same municipalities much longer?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U332	Thank you. First of all, I apologise and will say a more specific answer to Mr Vitsut's question. The Social Democratic Party withdrew its amendment after the debate, before the vote. I did not have that, but you will therefore not find this proposal on the list. In answer to your question, the guarantees and benefits of municipal officials are regulated quite thoroughly by the Civil Service Act. In addition, the municipality will certainly have the possibility to pay additional severance payments and bonuses. All municipalities have this option, and they can also use funds from the state budget as merger grants for such additional benefits. In the case of the municipality manager, the situation is more difficult. If we imagine that, for example, the Chairman of the Council will be granted such compensation during the meeting of the Council, then this is, let us say, certainly a humanely more difficult situation and also a situation of more legal uncertainty. That is why it makes more sense for parish elders, mayors and councillors to write this mechanism and compensation into the law precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U333	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U334	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is likely that many politicians who have ever started local government councils will also sit in this Chamber. How do you see whether, in the conditions of democracy in which we live and our country works, it is appropriate to focus on limiting the opportunities for politicians to grow?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U335	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U336	I do not think that this bill will focus in any way on restricting the possibility of politicians growing. When we think about our small parishes, there has also been a debate in this Chamber on the situation where a person has become a member of the parish council with zero votes, and very many have received one vote. We know what has happened in the small municipalities. It is often, in essence, a clanning, where the votes of one family or one family become members of the council. This is certainly not democracy. These extreme examples are also well reflected in the press. We have not seen very much that anyone who has become a member of a council with a few hundred inhabitants with a zero vote has finally become a member of the Riigikogu, for example. Those who have the potential to become a professional politician will certainly have the opportunity to be elected to the local council even after the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U337	Thank you. We don't have Peter's, I think you mean Rae's and Viimsi's. If they wish, they can pay any of their employees very good fees, just like many other local governments in Estonia. I rather described this situation, where many municipalities are so small that they never make any sense here, i.e. even if they wanted to offer an interest education in music on their territory, for example, it would simply not be practical, because there would be so few applicants. It doesn't make sense to carry it out in this form. If we ask how the merger is beneficial, then it must be beneficial to the residents, not to the municipal budget or to the members of the rural municipality administration, but to the residents. If the population's chances get better, it's a good thing to unite. We must always bear in mind that the municipality has obligations to its citizens. The duty of the municipality is not to the Riigikogu or the central government, but to its own people. The better the municipality carries out its duties, the better it is for the person to be a resident of the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U338	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! Before you answered my question with a specific example, and I will also ask you from a specific example. For example, the parishes of Peeter and Viimsi do not want to join other rural municipalities and the city of Tallinn, so that they can pay their music school teachers a higher salary than they pay in Tallinn. What formula do you force 'for the sake of well-being' to join the parishes that do not have the resources to do good teaching, good interest and a good social welfare institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U339	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U340	Thank you for that good question. This problem was discussed at the last sitting of the Commission, and it is somewhat mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, but I cannot find it so quickly to show you. It was discussed that the Commission would initiate a proposal according to which the municipality's administrative centre or, say, the municipality's centre should be located on the territory of the municipality. This would certainly encourage the emergence of more rational municipalities. The argument was that if a municipality like a horse iron was still to be formed, it would be possible to bypass it in such a way that the legal address or the address of the parish house is a point in the territory of the compound municipality, but the offices of the officials are located and the reception of citizens is still taking place on the territory of the neighbouring centre. I agree with you that this situation is regrettable. We often argue that smaller municipalities are closer to people in the physical sense, while the administrative centre of the municipality is not even located within the same municipality as its own residents. It is extremely strange that there are so many local governments of this kind in Estonia. Unfortunately, today's draft could rather add to this situation, that the rural municipalities are moving to the territory of another municipality. I agree that this is a problem. The answer is that I hope that municipalities will make reasonable decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U341	Thank you. Dear waitress, After a voluntary meeting of local governments, the government may also join local governments which did not join voluntarily. My question is this: how will it be possible to review the agreement in time if the government takes a decision in February, the local government has to answer in May and the elections are in October?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U342	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U343	Thank you. If our municipalities become evener, they are ultimately less, and they are more comparable, it can certainly be called tidying up. It was discussed when amendments to sectoral laws related to the tasks of local authorities in different fields could be expected. The representatives of the government, or initiator, talked about the autumn, the period after the Riigikogu's summer vacation, so that they could start working on these changes. But the content of this bill is pretty much there. If there were no content at all, there would not be so much criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U344	Thank you. Good performer! Please tell me, how do you think it is even possible to assess the draft law on administrative reform and its outcome without any draft laws determining the content of this reform? What did the Members of the Commission even think of this? We don't see regional administration being organized from anywhere at this point in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U345	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U346	Thank you. This proposal was seriously debated, had supporters and had opponents. A somewhat analogous approach is provided for in the Youth Work Act, where local councils are recommended to do so, but it is quite rare in our laws to recommend that youth councils be attached to them. The amendment tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party was certainly stronger in that it included an obligation for local governments. In this form, it was not supported, in particular with regard to the fact that it could still remain the decision-making power of the local government council itself. But I say that this proposal was very seriously considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U347	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The proposal to set up councils for senior councils was motivated by the desire to help the government reach the Nordic countries more quickly, as such things exist in Finland. Unfortunately, the Commission did not take this proposal into account. Is there any reason why this is not a good proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U348	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U349	Thank you. These issues were not particularly addressed. They were also not directly concerned by the amendments. There was a debate on the problem of local government leaders wishing, for political or other reasons, to geographically form municipalities with unreasonable boundaries, such as horse iron municipalities around the centre, instead of joining in the direction of the centre of attraction. That was the debate, but there were no such assumptions in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U350	The draft has been submitted by the Government, the Government has been presented by the Minister of Public Administration and, as far as I know, the Minister of Public Administration, the plan that was developed during my appointment as minister, was not suitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U351	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U352	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I ask why the reform allows for the formation of municipalities where the municipality centre, or the parish house, is not located in the territory of the new municipality to be formed, but is visited somewhere in the matchhouse. The rural municipality centre is located in the territory of another municipality. Why does the Reform Act provide such an opportunity? This is completely absurd if the local government that is being formed does not even have its own centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U353	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U354	Thank you. First of all, as regards the debate, Artur Talvik, rapporteur for the amendments of the Free Party, regretted at the committee meeting that Külliki Kübarsepp could not present these proposals himself. Since Talvik is not in the Chamber now, I find it uncomfortable to say this, but I think that if you had been there to present these proposals, there would have been more debate on these proposals. I believe your good colleague, Jüri Adams, can confirm that. It's speculation, but I'm pretty sure of it. That's one. Secondly, as far as Tallinn is concerned, the logic of this bill is still to strengthen our municipalities. I can also give examples from other countries. I have asked the Finnish Minister for Public Administration that if they are planning their changes, they will force the municipalities to join and cooperate and, in the same way, talk about more equal opportunities, why they have never discussed cutting up Helsinki. They have always considered that Helsinki and the region around it are a locomotive for the Finnish economy and that Helsinki must compete at international level. We need to help the weakest, but our goal should not be to artificially weaken the stronger, which cannot be an end in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U355	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I think we should talk to you about what the debate is. I can argue that the authors of the amendments are really being heard in the committee, but the debate would require that questions be asked collectively either, why, how, in order to find the truth. It hasn't been done so far. The Free Party came up with this proposal to review the administrative arrangements of Tallinn. And the aim is not to deal with one party, but to ensure that our municipalities are more equal in terms of income base and capacity. If you walk around Estonia, you will hear how the local government leaders are very concerned that they are not equivalent to Tallinn in terms of providing services. Why did the Commission not want to hold a substantive debate on Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U356	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U357	Thank you. Personally, I was here on the vertex introducing the draft law on self-government reform towards the end of the previous Riigikogu. Had the Riigikogu approved this law then, of course, the period of reform would have been longer. The next local elections will now be restricted, which will take place on 15 October next year. There must be a sufficient period of preparation for local elections, for the formation of electoral circles, and from there, reading ahead, these deadlines have been taken into account. That is what the initiator has said. What I do not agree with is the argument that the local government leaders are not familiar with this reform or its provisions. I have spoken to a large number of local government leaders and I know that in this sense this is a rare example that these officials are usually not so well informed about the changes that we are constantly adopting in this Chamber and which concern their work or their life. In this case, they are still surprisingly well-informed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U358	Thank you, Mr President. A representative of the good Commission. The need for administrative reform has been discussed for 20 years. No one has objected to the need for administrative reform, but it has been stretched for quite a long time. Now all of a sudden, I'm in a hurry. There are deadlines, but there has been no proper discussion with the local governments. Many of the local government leaders oppose it or do not properly state the content of the reform. Probably could've worked harder with them, worked harder. Now there are some deadlines that do not seem to be very real. How did this reform suddenly start so fast, when years and years have been dragged by it? Perhaps this work could have been done properly and to the end, agreed with all the parties and already before we can find the answers to all the questions we are having here all night?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U359	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U360	Thank you. The originator expressed the unequivocal view that it would be hoped that everyone would join voluntarily. In order for this to happen, it is, of course, that this coercive mechanism should be incorporated into the law. If there were no forced mechanism, the phase of voluntary accession would certainly not be so successful. If, at the end of this phase, some municipalities do not meet the criteria, the government has given rather strict deadlines. In January next year, the government will have to fix the status of voluntary mergers and, already on 15 February, make proposals for accession to those who do not meet the criteria. The question now is whether, after receiving a proposal from the government, the municipalities will enter into very substantive negotiations, especially if some municipalities have already actually joined each other, the accession treaties. I admit it's a painful place. If, for example, three of them have negotiated and signed a treaty of accession, but now the government states that you should also take the fourth one, then in some cases the merger agreement may not, in substance, recommend reopening the agreement in order to adapt it to the fourth party. In this case, the situation is simply that if no agreement is reached, there will be a bigger name and symbolism and no separate clauses. Here is the hope that, seeing such an opportunity, the local government leaders will be very active in opening accession negotiations because they do not want to get hung up in this way. So theoretically, from 15 February to 15 May, this is certainly possible in this three-month period. In Estonia, accession negotiations have been held in a much shorter time, accession treaties have been concluded and accession decisions have been made, in essence within a month these processes have been completed. Three months is definitely enough if there's a will. The problem is that if there is no will, then there will be virtually no agreement and no special clauses will be joined.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U361	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm not asking about the Commission's work, but since you're here as ex-minister, I'm asking you to do some analysis. We've got a long night ahead of us. We've got a lot of time today. After all, you, as a minister, have made the first administrative reform, which was already fully prepared, but now you are defending the Reform Party's draft. How much difference does it make between the two of them? Have you been able to maintain your principles? Do you remember how much it cost to prepare the first administrative reform, how many million around?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U362	While I was working as a member of the government, the administrative reform was not implemented. We did prepare two draft laws, twice. The first was based on the county logic, so that municipalities would be more or less the size of smaller counties in Estonia, not the size of larger counties, but the size of smaller counties, and there would be several municipalities in larger counties. The second draft was based on the logic of the centres of attraction. I can say that, at the time, when it received a great deal of criticism, I have now heard from several sharp critics at the time that it was a good draft. These people have testified to me. Today we have not one party before us, but a draft government. I'm glad that's the case. The current draft is more liberal, freer and looser and leaves the municipalities freer. It certainly does not prevent very wise decisions from being made in one way, but it also enables the municipalities to make more foolish decisions. But, of course, all of us in this Chamber assume that the representatives of our municipalities are very wise and decide reasonably on the kind of mergers that are most useful to their people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U363	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U364	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, A regional commission set up by the Government of the Republic shall make recommendations to the local government unit to change the administrative-territorial organisation. The Commission will also assess the merger decisions taken by the municipal councils. Can and for what reason may the Commission refuse to support voluntary mergers? We know that many times have been refused. On what basis should the Commission review the decisions of the councils or say that it is still not possible to join?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U365	Thank you. The Regional Commission will certainly make recommendations to the municipalities when they plan their mergers. But, of course, if local government councils have made their decision and pass it on to the Government of the Republic through the county governor, then the decision-maker is still the government. In the current laws, this mechanism also provides that the final decision is taken by the Government of the Republic, regardless of whether the merger has been initiated on a proposal from the central government or local councils. The Commission shall advise the Government of the Republic. What reasons may there be for refusing? One example is certainly that, if the current amendments are supported, we will decide that municipalities can voluntarily join in such a way that they do not have a common border, but provided that this territory, which lies between them and divides them, is nevertheless merged at the next stage, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic, so that there are uniform wholes. And now, of course, there is a very big role for the regional Commission, which must consider whether or not this is possible at all, whether or not such a whole local government will later emerge without any pieces of separation. If he sees that it doesn't really happen, he'll probably advise the government not to approve this kind of merger. This is one concrete example where the role of the Commission is very important. But I stress that the decision is made not by the Commission, but by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U366	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U367	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You didn't answer the big question of Andres Ammas, so I'm gonna try the other end a little bit. There are two fundamental amendments. The first is from Jüri Adams, No 51, and it concerns the fact that the merging municipality remains a public authority for one election period on the grounds that it would prevent manipulation of the decision of the parties in power. The second is the Free Party's proposal No 113, which concerns the abolition of the possibility of forming constituencies, essentially outside Tallinn. You're taking the opportunity to form an electoral district.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U368	First of all, Amendment 51 tabled by Mr Adams. The Commission considered that this was an excessive interference in the organisation of the merged municipality's activities, especially when they were voluntarily merged, but also when they were merged on the initiative of the government. The Commission considered that they could decide on their own arrangements. At the moment, there is already a very strong mechanism in the law. Indeed, if one of the merging municipalities insists that it remain a separate municipality, it will be granted it. We found in the Commission that if the merging municipalities themselves do not want to continue to act as authorities in the new compound government, why should we oblige them to do so? If, in the course of negotiations before accession, they have deliberately abandoned this opportunity for some reason, then why must we impose it on them? In my opinion, and that is my personal opinion, it is not reasonable to entrust them with such a burdensome task. The explanation of Amendment 113 is a little difficult to understand exactly what the Free Party wanted to change. But I'll explain. The draft stipulates that municipalities decide for themselves how they form their constituencies. They can form one or more electoral circles in the combined self-government, giving more freedom to draft laws. For example, if four municipalities join, they can also form two electoral districts or three electoral districts. So far, they were able to form one electoral district or in each of the merging municipalities a separate electoral district. Now they have a much more free hand, they can consider whether they want to form more equal electoral circles in terms of size or number of inhabitants. It can also be done by leaving one associate in a separate circuit and putting the others together in a single circuit. So, in my opinion, this bill rather broadens the possibilities for the accessioners to shape their own electoral circles, and I do not see the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U369	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U370	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! When you noticed, the Free Party wanted to propose substantive amendments to the technical law. Perhaps this approach has confused the Commission on how to deal with them in the first place. As the opposition was not involved in the debate on the substantive draft, the only way to achieve the discussion was to propose amendments, but was not desired. Hence our demand or desire for the coalition itself to stop reading and start making substantive proposals. Why did the IRL abandon the substantive debate that was originally planned because the regional committees were manned by the IRL, with the necessary people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U371	Thank you. School students first. I think that if our municipalities are more evenly strong, it will also make our school network and the quality of education more uniform. In addition, I believe that access to education for children in smaller municipalities will also improve. We can give a concrete example that access to music school is easier for residents of larger municipalities. Often, a child in a smaller municipality has to pay much more for attending a music school than a child in a larger municipality, because they say that you are not our resident, pay more. However, it is often not possible for a smaller municipality to pay more money. If he were part of a larger municipality, the music school would be available to the residents, just as the larger municipality already has. As far as social services are concerned, we can actually see that social services, or even social protection, are gradually moving under the central government. Over the last few years, the municipality has lost its responsibilities, moving to the central government. This is justified by the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs under different governments and ministers, all alike, many of our municipalities are not sufficiently capable of providing services and the state institution must take over this area. I certainly want local authorities to have more decision-making powers and tasks to be in the hands of local authorities. Municipalities need to be more able to give back what has been taken into the hands of the state in the social field, but also partly in the field of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U372	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U373	Thank you. Old wisdom says that a fool learns only from his mistakes, if he learns at all, but wise also from the mistakes and history of others. History is a collective experience of the people, from which the wise nations find support both in the revolutionary moments of their lives and in the busy day of their daily lives. We have already heard that we know something about other administrative reforms, you mentioned Denmark, Lithuania and Latvia, but have we taken into account Estonia's own historical experience in shaping the administrative division in preparation for the reform, both success stories and loss stories? What was good or bad? The collective experience of the people could still be remembered and applied. If possible, speak in a word about the use of historical experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U374	Thank you. This is once again a matter for the initiator in particular. We did not talk about this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For my part, I can add so much that today's officials of the Ministry of Finance, former officials of the Ministry of the Interior, who have also been in the process of drafting previous draft laws on administrative reform, are quite familiar with the reform that was carried out in Estonia in the late 1930s, with the changes that were made at the time. They are quite familiar with the reasons and debates at the time, I can assure you that. I can't tell you what's happened before, but the experience of the late 30s has definitely been in front of the authors of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U375	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U376	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We have talked a lot about strengthening communities here and that every person's voice should be more and more heard and weighed. To what extent and in what way do you see the development of a democratic community and an increase in the rights of the community in this bill? The Free Party has proposed an idea for this, but what do you think will contribute to this in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U377	Thank you. The draft specifies the role of the public and district elders, as well as the role of the local and district councils. My opinion is that the community is a smaller unit. It is a village, a village, it is a settlement, and it is represented entirely by a grassroots association, which may have been registered as an NGO, but may not be registered at all, to act as a partnership. In general, Estonia's experience is that village societies of larger municipalities are in a better position. For example, in Rae rural municipality, which is a very large rural municipality in Estonian terms, there is a very good cooperation between the local council, village societies and village societies. A mechanism is provided that, when an agency operates, they are provided with a certain amount of money from the municipal budget that they wish to use, to do what they consider to be right. The municipality fully supports their joint activities, where the village societies meet for a single event. I know that, for example, the chairman of the parish council meets regularly with representatives of the village society. By the way, we have one amendment that introduces the participation of representatives with voting rights in the municipal council. This gives them the opportunity to speak to be heard by the council members.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U378	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U379	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm going back a few years. You were regional minister for a long time, before you was Vallo Reimaa. I remember your administrative reform because I was a member of the mayor's board of directors at the time, as well as of the local government union. You regularly went to the municipalities to introduce what your plans were, listened to the opinions of all the local government leaders, local government associations, what one local government centre should be and how the local government could be formed. At that time, the Central Party Group was also prepared to support administrative reform in the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, one of your coalition partners opposed it. Didn't the government come up with such a question, or wasn't the solution you proposed at the time? Perhaps the same administrative reform plan, as you proposed at the time, would have been appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U380	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U381	Thank you. Indeed, over the years, very different circles have repeatedly called for the adoption of capital law. The problem is that demandrs see the substance of this law very differently. Some believe that this law should describe the functions that the capital has, and then additional funds should be allocated to them. They see a way to get more money to the capital. Others see the possibility of cutting funding for the capital city; third people think that this law should deal with cutting up the capital city, in particular Tallinn, etc. I've been thinking about that, too, and frankly, I can't think of a single point to write into that law. I don't think anyone has any good ideas. I think that such a law would make sense if it provided for a competition between Estonian cities, which city offers the capital service in the Republic of Estonia under the best conditions. Then it would make sense. In a situation where the capital is either that or Tallinn, I see no great political will to reverse it. I don't know what the capital law says.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U382	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Mr Adams had a very good amendment, which was short and clear. This would have added to the option given to the rural municipalities of Setumaa in section 9 of the exceptions. This has probably become one paragraph of § 9, where Setumaa are no longer listed separately and have been designated by at least four municipalities. I assume this new wording concerns Setumaa. Why was Mr Jüri Adams' specific, short and clear wording not appropriate and rejected?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U383	Thank you. The originator's point of view was that we should not name specific territories in the law. If you are reading these criteria, you will be able to pass through your head which local governments or municipalities that are as formed as possible could meet these criteria. Then you can imagine that, uh, quite logical, for example, the marine island estate we have so much. But if you're reading this text, there's no mention of anyone here by name. The initiator's urge was that we stick to it in terms of wording. I admit that the wording that is written here was partly proposed by me. You read that there are such words as 'The local municipality bordering the Republic of Estonia on land with a temporary control line'. If we think about it calmly, we will probably understand what territory we are talking about when this kind of wording is used. We can argue whether we could name a region or use euphemism, perhaps call a wolf a bushvillem. In any case, with regard to this wording, which was slightly different in the original draft text, but which was then discussed a lot in the Commission, it is the historical territory of Setumaa. He's not exactly what Jüri Adams suggested, but he's also discussed with the representatives of the Setus. So if they can carry out a merger within the limits of their historic territory, they can also fulfil these criteria. Therefore, it is not the four municipalities that are mentioned here, but the administrative territories or parts thereof of the four municipalities. The words 'or parts of them' have been introduced here with this idea. Once again, we understand that we are talking, I speak boldly in this remote area, from Misso municipality, where part of the territory is historic Setumaa and which is part of the logically forming system of Setumaa university. The size of the population has also been checked. If all the rural municipalities of Setumaa agree to this, this law provides for the possibility that they can form it. I admit honestly, I am not convinced that they will agree with each other, but at least the legislator does not want this to be the case if they can agree on their own.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U384	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U385	Good waitress! Good manager! Jaak Allik has said about this bill that the pig doesn't eat either. And as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I can confirm that. However, my question relates to violence. If this 'violent phase', which you call a little more politely, comes, it will be presented to the local government, which for some reason does not want to join, an ultimatum and they will have to conduct a survey. If the local people say they're against this plan, they still don't have the right to veto. My question is this: why have local governments been deprived of veto rights after this survey, but the government has it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U386	Thank you. Indeed, if the local government does not proceed with the merger on the proposal of the Government of the Republic and does not conduct a survey among the local residents, then the county government must conduct a survey, ask for opinions and make decisions and submit the results of the survey to the Government of the Republic. Why is that? I can say that our current law, too, when you read the Act on the Administrative Division of Estonian Territory, has a similar mechanism in place. In principle, this is also possible now. The way in which a merger can be initiated on the proposal of the Government of the Republic is quite detailed in the law: listen to the opinion of the residents, listen to the position of the local council. The decision is also made by the Government of the Republic according to the laws in force. The same is true if the municipalities themselves initiate the merger, then the final decision will also be left to the Government of the Republic. Nothing will be changed about that. In fact, all these mergers initiated by the government could be carried out without the adoption of this law if the government so decided. There is no change in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U387	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U388	Thank you, Mr President. A representative of the good Commission. If something like this is pushed through with raw force, there's always a question of whether there's any other stuff back there. But since you yourself said that it is not exactly clear how this reform is going to work, and that some solutions still need to be welded, I asked where it was going to be in such a hurry. You said, in response, that before the municipal elections, things must be in place. Why is it urgent before these municipal elections, when the matter has been dragged down for 20 years? What happens if you don't get ready for these elections, but what happens next? What makes these elections so important and painful for the authors of the reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U389	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Of course, I was astonished by the answer given to the late questioner that the EKRE had supported the increase in income tax. I would like to remind you that when this populist decision was made with which the income tax was reduced by 1% on 1 January 2015, we were not yet in the Riigikogu. Unfortunately. I would remind you that this cost the country EUR 75 million, while the average median wage recipient won four euros a month. So don't come talkin' shit like that. The other thing, the unreasonable use of money. The first example, EUR 80 million, which is going to cost the current administrative reform, is one very useless undertaking and the place from which to take the money first. However, I will move quickly to the issue of the debate on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We asked ministerial officials that if some municipalities say they are doing very well, that there are public services and that they do not want to join, are they wise to tell them that they have to join? The officials were amazed to see that they knew what was better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U390	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U391	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear waitress, The answer to the earlier question, whether or not there is an illegal constitution, raises a serious question: how can the Riigikogu prepare draft laws, where there is a high risk that the case will end in court due to the unconstitutional nature of the case? In my opinion, we should analyse and take down these risks when dealing with the law. But I'm coming back to the money question now. You have pointed out that Tallinn is drowning in money, that there is too much money and that stupid things are being done. We can come up with exactly the same thing in the case of central government, the central government has money like the river, and it is spent on absurdity. It would make more sense to spend it differently or not take money from the people at all. But the key point is that, once again, it is our criticism of this draft, so that the financing model can be redrafted. It would be a real regional policy, not a one-size-fits-all. Why is the financing model not being restructured?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U392	Thank you. As for the fact that someone is contesting the law adopted by the Supreme Court, this risk is always present. There is quite a lot of this in the case of other draft laws. For example, there have been very interesting debates here in the Riigikogu, until the law has not been brought into line with the Constitution by the deadline. This risk can probably never be ruled out. We certainly cannot rule out that some local governments are contesting this law; this possibility exists. As regards the unreasonable use of funds by the central government in some areas, I will certainly support you if you have constructive proposals where unreasonable use of money could be reduced. I am ready to discuss these proposals. In general, however, I think that the unreasonable use of money by the central government has unfortunately received much stronger criticism than such nonsense as Tallinn Television. Something just stupid and politically malicious can't be compared. As regards the fact that, if there is less unreasonable use of money, less tax could be collected from people, I also very much support this. I think we could even start at the other end, i.e. we could reduce people's taxes, and then there will be less unreasonable use of money. In this respect, I am very sorry that EKRE supported the increase in personal income tax. I'm really sorry about that. I very much hope that EKRE will never again support any higher personal income tax percentage for the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U393	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It would be appropriate to ask you a little bit about history, because you've been dealing with reform problems for a long time. In his day, capital law was also on the table, and even on the agenda. Why were these ideas buried? Were there special party interests or other political backgrounds? With this, we would have finished comparing the bear and the rabbit and would have made it clear what Tallinn as a capital functions and activities and what other functions are.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U394	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Here, some time ago, when you answered the questions, you argued that a good merger decision could be very useful to people. That's what we know about the benefits for the parish elders. But be good and specify what you essentially meant by getting very much benefit from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U395	Do you agree with them that we know better what is best for local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U396	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U397	What I meant was that our municipalities are now able to offer very different opportunities to their residents. We are talking about grants, we are taking the grant or some other support, for example. Some municipalities are able to pay a relatively considerable amount, some not so much. Some will be able to make larger land tax concessions, while others will not. Some are able to provide free recreational education, while others are not. People have different conditions, they receive very different opportunities, services and benefits from their local authorities. If, for example, a smaller and less able municipality and a strong city next to it become larger and stronger, it is quite obvious that, for example, the possibility of attending a free music school will increase for the smaller and less able people. Or, if a larger or stronger subsidy is currently paid, then, or after accession, not everyone loses the subsidy but, on the contrary, this benefit extends to smaller citizens in the same way. It is also the experience of other countries that, in general, agreements are still being made in a more favourable direction for the population. There are also examples in Estonia where neighbouring municipalities discuss that one has a lower land tax, but the other has larger subsidies. And then it has been found that the new municipality will have to take the option of a lower land tax, while the option of larger subsidies will have to be taken. Citizens win on one side and on the other side. We can certainly see that, you can say that clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U398	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U399	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said that there were provisions in the draft concerning administrative reform. Yeah, I agree. There are a few. You also said that the title does not change the content. I also agree with that, because this law does not actually carry out administrative reform. The key issues of this reform are the division of responsibilities and funding, which would also help to provide better services to citizens. It seems to me that the supporters or performers of the bill think that this addition will solve all the problems by itself. I don't believe in it, and I don't think the mayors believe it either. Why are you so stubbornly ignoring the proposals of the local government leaders and not dealing with them in this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Speaking about the content of the draft, representatives of the Centre Party Group have consistently stressed the need to strengthen the local government's revenue base. Can you tell us whether the processing of the draft administrative reform has been discussed, for example, in the specifics of Ida-Virumaa, given the changes to the environmental fee model and its effects? The budgets of many municipalities in Virumaa, and thus their administrative capacity, depend on this, both now and after the reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U401	Thank you. I must say that this bill has not been discussed directly on environmental charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U402	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U403	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U404	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned recently that if a municipality does not find a suitor, it is as if it were a requirement for violent unification in the draft, which will certainly frighten the parties voluntarily to join. To be terrified, one might have said that they would be brought under the direct authority of the government, perhaps it would have scared even more. My question, however, concerns something far more comprehensive. One of the suggestions for improvement, the so-called 'cruise' idea, is that cities that remain within the territory of two European Union countries could also be combined. I am very interested in what the Commission felt about the pioneering and less advanced features of this very far-reaching proposal, and how could it still be realised, of course, without war?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U405	First of all, I don't agree with being intimidated. I'm pretty sure I didn't use that word of intimidation myself. If that's how I read it, it wasn't meant to be. I did not use this word precisely because the idea is to make the municipalities see that it is more sensible for them to join voluntarily, because at this stage they have better opportunities to participate. They can influence the Accession Treaty. If they do not do so at a voluntary stage, a situation may arise at the initiative of the government where others no longer want to negotiate with them in substance. They themselves see that, if they want to have a say in this process, for example, they have a strong desire to maintain an establishment, a schoolhouse, to keep it running, then at a voluntary stage they can negotiate it. If, for example, one municipality is later added to the three municipalities that have already negotiated the merger, the latter may say that they no longer want to discuss the issue of maintaining the schoolhouse, and they may not. This is the mechanism that should make voluntary mergers more attractive to smart self-government leaders. With regard to the Prussian proposal by Igor Gräzin, the Commission did not imagine what it would look like without war, as you said. That's a humor, of course. Indeed, with regard to membership of the European Union, the laws of Estonia and Latvia, or Finland, are much more similar than they were perhaps 15 years ago, but nevertheless, several regulations are too different. So there would certainly be a lot of questions about financing the municipality, collecting taxes, working in the municipalities and everything else. They did not see how this idea could be realised.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U406	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I come back to Amendment 113, which I asked about earlier. I admit you probably have a hard time grasping these texts. But I'm trying to explain what this is about. In the current Local Government Council Election Act, § 561 is entitled "Identification of selection results in a local government unit with several electoral districts'. What the draft law is about to change is to title 'Identifying the results of the selection in Tallinn'. That's where my question comes from. How, then, will the identification of the results of the elections be done in the local government units with several electoral districts, if you specify all this only for Tallinn? Is this possibility even left, and how is it described?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U408	Thank you. I'm sorry if I answered inaccurately before. Now I understand the point of this question better. The original text of this draft law, the text of the first reading, also contained an important amendment. In the current law, if there are several electoral circles in the municipality, there is also a compensation list, the so-called self-government list, as is the case with the Riigikogu elections. One provision of the draft proposed by the initiator states that the compensation list will be abolished in all the municipalities that emerge and also in existing municipalities, with the exception of Tallinn. The originator justified this by the fact that, when municipalities of different sizes join, the compensation list works in favour of the lists of major candidates and candidates. That was the originator's justification. However, the initiator did not want to change this in Tallinn. That's where the difference in wording came from. This means that if there are currently a compensation list in all municipalities with several electoral districts, then if this bill becomes a law in its current form, there will be a situation where there is a compensation list in Tallinn, but there is no compensation list in other municipalities. That's the content.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U409	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U410	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! § 28 of the current draft legislative provision provides for the structure of the draft explanatory memorandum, according to which parts of the explanatory memorandum are the introduction, the purpose of the law, the content and comparative analysis of the draft, the terminology of the draft, the compatibility of the draft with European Union law, the effects of the law, the costs necessary for the implementation of the law and the expected revenue from the implementation of the law, implementing acts, the entry into force of the law. Nowhere is it said or stipulated by the norm that the technical requirements apply only at first reading. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law on administrative reform at second reading today does not contain any of the above-mentioned mandatory elements. Here is the question: firstly, why has the draft regulation been broken, and secondly, do you not think that since the draft does not meet the technical requirements, the second reading must be interrupted?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U411	Thank you. Second reading is still the same bill as the 200 SE, as it was at first reading. This means that the explanatory memorandum at first reading continues to be the explanatory memorandum to the draft. The Riigikogu must, however, act reasonably and effectively, simply copy the entire explanatory statement of the second reading of the explanatory memorandum. The first-reading explanatory statement is freely available to everyone, and you can continue to read it. It is still the explanatory memorandum to this draft, so there have certainly not been any violation of the rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U412	The President considers it necessary to answer the procedural question himself. This explanatory statement, which is on the bill today, is an explanatory statement to the second reading. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U413	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did it ever occur to anyone at the meetings of the Government of the Republic, or at the meetings of the Commission, to hear, to compromise and to bring into this draft the issues relating to the income base, namely the increase in the income tax rate, the fine-tuning fund's resources and the funding of roads? The adoption of the draft administrative reform would have been smoother and there would be no tonight's session.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U414	Thank you. This has been discussed in the coalition working group on the draft law on administrative reform and the amendments were seriously discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Certainly, when voting on these amendments, it is also necessary to consider the resources provided for in the national budget strategy. It is understandable that the initiator has not supported those proposals for which he does not see the financial cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U415	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U416	Thank you. I very much agree with you, and I think that all members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I dare say, agree with you that this law will certainly not solve all the problems. At the same time, I have not seen any draft laws in this Chamber of the Riigikogu that will solve all the problems. Then we could adopt this one law and disband it. This is the first step right now. We have a lot of discussion here about which one should be before, whether there should be tasks before and then size or before size and then tasks. I am deeply convinced that there must be a clear size before we can give tasks. A municipality with 100 inhabitants cannot be given the task of maintaining upper secondary school, for example. There's no point, there's no sense! But in the case of 11000 inhabitants, for example, this is already an option that can be considered entirely. That is why, as a first step, we are still setting out what municipalities are, and then we can give them tasks. I really hope we'll have county-sized municipalities. If, for example, a municipality the size of a county is formed in Saaremaa, then basically all the tasks currently occupied by the Saare County Government could be given calmly to Saare County Government. I think there would be enough support for that in this Chamber, I quite believe it. But if there are ten municipalities in Saaremaa, for example, there are not so many, but if there are five, then everything is much more suspicious. It is clear that in this case some things will also be organised by the rural government in its former form. The first step is to adopt this draft law, and then, I agree with you, there is a need to deal with the review of tasks and, of course, with funding in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U417	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U418	Thank you. Administrative reform can be carried out in each Riigikogu, taking into account the local elections. At present, we are in this composition simply at the stage where the next local elections are, you can broadly say, in a year and a half. It's an opportunity for its composition. Indeed, it has been discussed for 20 years, so that I do not call it haste. The area of this bill is certainly one of the areas that has been better discussed, analysed and studied in Estonia at all. I myself have participated in many debates; I have participated in ordering and introducing studies. Researchers from several universities have studied the effects of mergers: researchers from Tallinn University, researchers from Tallinn University of Technology, researchers from the University of Tartu. It has certainly been possible for everyone to see the effects of the accessions that have already been carried out, and it can be concluded from them what the forthcoming accessions will bring with them. Firstly, I think that it is not too rushed, and secondly, the general effects of this draft are still known.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U419	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U420	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I would like a little explanation of the contradiction between what has been said in this Chamber and the document we have on the tables today. It is a contradiction that we are talking about a possible future expansion of the income base and better financing of local governments, but the sections that provided for changes in the Income Tax Act have been excluded. How, then, does it have to happen that the future is going to go better than it is now, that the funding will improve while we are at the same time rejecting these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U421	Thank you. Funding must also be linked to the tasks that municipalities perform. Here in the hall, I always advise you to ask what the money is used for. It is never pointing out that we allocate money to municipalities, for example, or allocate money to the Environmental Board or some other institution. I think there's always a real question in this hall about what's going on with this money. If we do not foresee in the draft that the tasks will change, then it is also not appropriate to simply say that the tasks will remain the same, but we will continue to give more money. Funding must still be linked to tasks. If we start here to discuss, for example, the transfer of public transport arrangements to municipalities, then it is natural that the money that is currently provided in the state budget for the organisation of public transport by county governments will move along with this task to municipalities. I very much hope that our municipalities will be so large that they can be given this task and that they can also receive public transport subsidies. If we give this money along, we give them not only money but also decision-making powers. They can organise themselves, make their own choices about which line they support, which line they do not. And the assumption is that the municipalities are large enough, otherwise there is no point in talking about it. It has to be that choice. Municipalities bigger, then additional tasks with additional funding! For example, the organisation of public transport would be a good example of what could move to municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U422	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U423	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitution states that the highest authority in the country is a nation and that the people exercise their power through voting. At the moment, the result of the vote on the accession of local governments is only indicative for the local government leaders. This has led to an absurd situation in which, for example, in Saue, where three-quarters of people opposed accession, it was ignored and decided in favour of accession. You have also rejected all the proposals made to make the referendum a compulsory outcome. Do you not think that the government thus rejected an excellent opportunity to strengthen democracy in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U424	Thank you. I don't. When it comes to Saue's example, this is certainly not an absurd situation. It is perfectly natural; it fits very well with the logic of the European Charter for Local Government. By the way, many of the provisions of our constitution are, in essence, directly rewritten from the European Charter for Local Government. So this situation is fully constitutional, based on the principles of representative democracy. I would specify so much that, without knowing the precise results of the Saue City survey, I do not believe that three quarters of the population of Saue responded exactly that way. It's good to have so many people expressing their opinions, which I don't really believe. You must have been inaccurate or you've given incorrect information. This provision, which concerns the freedom of decision of the local council, regardless of the results of the poll, is certainly very well in line with the principles of representative democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U425	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U426	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear waitress, In this example of Saue, I do not understand what false information is being provided here. The percentage of participation was over 40 and nearly 75% of the people were clearly opposed, and the city of Saue also has no need or obligation to join in the light of this draft. Yet, there was a change of power in the council to make this merger happen. The coup of power, of course, took place with the involvement of your party. I would like to come back to the question of money and decision by my colleague, Raivo Põldaru. After all, this is one of the main things that our party has criticised, at least, one very important part of the criticism of the draft that has not addressed the decision-making and competences of the municipality, the county government and the central government. Money is not being given, although there is not enough money to fulfil the current competences, as we have repeatedly spoken in this Chamber. And as far as public transport is concerned, this is definitely not a good plan. Why was it decided not to review competences?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U427	Thank you. First of all, about Saue. If the participation was less than 50%, there is no way to say that three-quarters of people have expressed any opinion. Obviously, this percentage is considerably lower. That's one. Secondly, to state that local governments have too little money on this, I certainly do not agree unambiguously. Indeed, some municipalities have too little money to carry out their tasks. However, if we look at the decisions of the city and the city, for example, then I am deeply convinced that they have too much money. When the municipality establishes banks, spends millions and millions on propaganda, sets up its own television channel, municipal shops, rental homes, etc., this municipality obviously has so much money that smart thoughts are missing and stupid. There's just so much money that they can't stick anywhere and do stupid things. This is currently the case for this municipality in particular. It is not a question of us saying, in general, that there is too little money for the whole of Estonia. I think there are areas in Estonia where the need for money is much more critical. I do agree that when municipalities are given additional tasks, they also need to be provided with additional resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U428	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U429	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm listening, and I'm more and more wondering. All of this is a stage that has already been completed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, one and the same story. But I'm asking you that you deal with the Constitution like you do, and you say it's constitutional! I now ask whether the Chancellor of Justice will not share the challenge if he has written clearly in Estonian, that the advance with which you have come may not be able to respond at all to the Constitution. That it will not be clear whether it complies with the Constitution until you have come up with implementing legislation, an implementing law that sets out the obligations and also the money. Who deals more adequately with the Constitution, either you as a fresh member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U430	First of all, the answer is that it is certainly the Chancellor of Justice, not, of course, my humble person. However, in order to deal with the statements made by the Chancellor of Justice during his term of office, this text should be seen very specifically. It is particularly difficult to comment on the claim that something may or may not be. I know that the current Chancellor of Justice has said such a thing before the Chancellor of Justice took up his duties that large municipalities such as Estonia's counties may not comply with the Constitution. When I asked him if Tallinn as a municipality was in conflict with Estonia's constitution, he owed me an answer. It is nice to use all kinds of arguments, but if the municipality with 430000 inhabitants is in accordance with the Estonian Constitution, then I am deeply convinced that the municipality with 43000 inhabitants is also in accordance with the Estonian Constitution. As far as the claim is concerned, it is always the same story that the same talk that I have in the Commission is my job to answer the questions that you are asking. If you ask the same questions, I'll give you similar answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U431	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U432	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, thank you very much. It is known from the practice of our neighbours, Latvians and Lithuanians that administrative reform in this form will certainly not stop peripheralisation or the emptying of rural areas. There's a 5,000 in the bill. But if there are 4600 inhabitants in this region in a year and 4300 in two years, what about it? If this strict number is recorded, will the law be amended again? Is that what it's meant for?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U433	Thank you. In answer to one question that was asked earlier, I said that, in the light of the experience of other countries, I dare to predict that I do not know exactly how many years from now, but in some years' time, we will be here in this Chamber with a new draft administrative reform, whoever will be members of the Riigikogu at that time. Those who have made too soft a reform must do it again. The Lithuanians are not here a reference example in this sense, that they have made a very vigorous reform and that Lithuania is now one of the largest municipalities in Europe. In this sense, they were strong and successful in the second half of the 90s. The Danes, as I pointed out, made the first reform that looked something like what we are doing in 1970. I may be wrong about the year in 2010, but about then they made a new reform with a minimum size of 20,000 inhabitants. Minimum size! The same can be said of other countries, i.e. where soft reforms have been carried out, they will come back to this issue. It is precisely the argument that the reform must be done with a view to the future that Finns make very much use of their administrative reform to think at least 20 to 25 years forward. In Finland, there is often debate on administrative reform. When people ask what gets better, the typical answer in Finland is that we are reforming to make sure that we do not get worse. There's not even a expectation that anything could get much better. However, since in rural areas there are exactly the same trends in Finland that, firstly, the population is ageing, secondly, the population is shrinking and the relationship between workers, taxpayers and dependants is getting worse, the Finns are saying that reform is simply necessary to maintain the same level. This is a Finnish concept. The answer to you is yes, I agree with you. In the case of criteria as soft as it says here, we will probably come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U434	Erki Savisaar, I was in the hall myself when Jüri Ratas, who chaired the Riigikogu before me, gave me the opportunity to ask a second question. Really, Erki Savisaar used it in a very unusual way, but the opportunity has been used. If there is a need for guidance on how the remote control works, the officials of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu are willing to help. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U435	Thank you. First of all, with regard to less collected income tax, EUR 25 million, I welcome this when people were indeed taken away from EUR 25 million less. This money was left in the pockets of individuals, and I am very pleased about that. I regret that the EKRE criticises such decisions and instead wants personal income tax to be increased. EKRE has also supported, for example, the proposal of the Free Party to increase the tax percentage for both companies and individuals in this Chamber. That's one. Secondly, as far as the costs of the entry into force of this law are concerned, these funds really go to the acceding municipalities. They can make local investments out of it. I find it difficult to understand that, on the one hand, you are calling for an increase in municipal funding and, on the other, you are criticising the decision to allocate funds to local governments. Try to figure out what you then want to increase or reduce. At the same time, it is strange to criticise one and the other. Third, I got confused, who knows better. I couldn't figure out exactly what you were asking and which one should know better. I think it is up to the legislator to be responsible and to put in place a self-government system that is reasonable and effective. It's our responsibility, and we shouldn't shirk it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U436	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U437	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Some time ago, the name of Saue came through here several times. As a resident of Saue City, a serious Saue patriot and a person concerned about Saue's future, I should first elaborate on some facts. It was said that most of the inhabitants of Saue were opposed to accession. First of all, 41% of the citizens of Saue's city with the right to vote voted for or against accession. That's my question. If only 41% of people expressed their opinion, will the council have to decide for the rest, and is that our democracy? Please respond very briefly, either yes or no.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U438	Firstly, democracy provides for the local council to make these decisions, and the results of the polls of the population are, of course, an important input for it. But the local council must certainly take into account that less than half of the inhabitants of the municipality participated in the survey. This is actually a wider problem, by the way. If we look at statistics across Estonia, where the number of opponents to the merger is very low, for example, the percentage of participation in polls is very low. The obvious trend is that it is those who object that are more active in the poll. Those in favour usually say do it and don't bother me with it. And where there is no confrontation, there are very low participation percentages, they are even less than 10. If there is any significant movement against a merger, it will immediately increase the percentage of participation. It is clear from this that the opponents are more active participants in the polls. By the way, this is not Estonia's specialty. I spoke a few weeks ago in Oslo with the Norwegian Minister responsible for this area, who is currently reforming the administration in Norway, and he said that they have exactly the same thing, i.e. that supporters do not participate in the survey and that opponents rather participate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U439	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U440	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! The talk that just sounded is, of course, ridiculous. 27% of citizens with the right to vote took part in the European Parliament elections. So what do we do now? Should we recall everyone who was chosen? Let's say the elections were null and void, most people weren't interested at all. Or let's just say, like you do now, the props didn't come out. After all, they supported the candidates who were elected to the europarlamento. That's absurd, isn't it? However, I have a different question. You worked as regional minister for several years, perhaps four years, and developed the Estonian model of attraction centres. Then your time ran out and this reform programme was essentially thrown into the trash. Is it now that a plan is being made, cooled around it for a while, then thrown into the trash, then someone next comes in, develops the next one, and it's being thrown into the trash? So how does this work in the Republic of Estonia now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U441	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Helme, your own story is ridiculous and absurd. It's embarrassing to listen, to be honest. Comparing elections and polls, putting them on one stick, it shows your incredible incompetence, Mr. Helme. Embarrassing. To be precise, as Regional Minister, I worked for just over six years, and one of the drafts submitted was indeed a model of centres of attraction. But in response to you, I say this: I am convinced that this bill will be adopted by this Riigikogu and it will not go into the trash bin.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U442	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U443	Mr. Kissler! I'm taking the chance that you and your knowledge are on this board, and I'm going to tune in a little bit for memories. In my understanding, the current scheme is the fourth more compactly developed scheme in this area. The past can probably be linked to the names of the ministers: the Tarmo Nature Plan, the Vallo Reimaa Plan, the plan of your time, and now the Arto Asa Workgroup plan. Would you be able to say something in general about these fundamental differences or coincidences? It is still a very long way, which the idea of how to reform has gone through in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U444	Thank you. First of all, all these plans have been characterised by one desire: to make our smaller municipalities, namely smaller ones, bigger and more capable. Incoherence is too great and unreasonable. And it is small municipalities that we have very many. Today, more than half of the municipalities have fewer than 2,000 inhabitants, but it has been more or less the same for all these years. The problem is that there will be more municipalities with fewer than 1000 inhabitants, as the population will decrease and fall more strongly in smaller municipalities. This is why the number of municipalities in the smaller category is growing in a strange way all the time. So the trend has been the same. The difference has been that the Tarmo Nature Plan was certainly the most foreseen by the central government. There was a lot of talk about it, and there was a lot of drawing cards. I think drawing cards is a very sensible activity today, our everyday life, as we know, is increasingly based on cards, we use cards more and more in our lives. Therefore, I have always been amazed by this criticism, as if drawing and using cards were a bad thing. I think this is a very up-to-date approach in the public sector as well. Vallo Reimaa did not reach a very specific plan. He had many ideas, but I have not seen such a specific plan. Perhaps, at the time I was a minister, the plan of attraction centres was somewhat more directed by the legislator. A merger was envisaged in the direction of the centres. We foresaw that this would certainly be more understandable, logistically reasonable for people, because our road network, our bus routes, is not only the case for the whole country, but also in counties, for example, has been built up like this from earlier times in the form of sun rays. It is often most convenient for people to move towards centres and jobs are also located in centres. This programme led municipalities to join in the direction of attraction centres. The current scheme is obviously the most free in this sense that municipalities can form different formations. As I have said today, there is also the possibility of one-stop-shop governments, which, while meeting a minimum criterion of 5000 inhabitants, may not, in essence, have an effect if there are no centres of attraction left on the territory of this municipality. But, as I have repeatedly pointed out, under this law, municipalities themselves can make very reasonable and good decisions for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U445	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm taking on your last sentence, which is exactly what I wanted to ask you about. In the course of this debate or discussion, was it also thought about what functions local authorities could perform by replacing some of the functions of the state? Because if local authorities are bigger, they also have more capacity and more opportunities to provide services. Was there such a discussion, and if it was, where did it come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U446	Thank you. When the Minister for Public Administration attended the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this was discussed. True, there were some isolated examples. One was the organisation of public transport, which I have mentioned here today. It was said that other tasks, which are self-governing and are currently carried out by county governments, could also be assigned to local governments. But there aren't really many of these tasks now. One area is certainly planning, which is largely done by county governments at the level of county planning. For example, if we have a municipality the size of a county, they could certainly be handed over to the municipality. However, I think that the expectation that there will be a great deal of ground government to take over is somewhat overrated. When we look at what county government officials do every day, national supervision of education plays a major role. Other national supervisory functions must inevitably remain with the public authorities. They don't have to be county governments. The county government can be reorganised or liquidated, and then it will be either an education institution or some other institution, but it must inevitably be a state institution. But there's something to take from there, until the Olympics are organized, including very small tasks. There has been a separate talk about the task of giving the municipality the task of encouraging entrepreneurship. This was also mentioned by the Minister of State Administration when we had him in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but he was simply talking about this as an opportunity. In my opinion, the most difficult thing about this task is that, when we talk about the need to see additional financial resources when it comes to the task, there is a big question for me as to how much these funds should be in this case. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry has conducted a survey among the local government leaders and has examined whether they see the promotion of entrepreneurship as a useful activity for the municipality or whether it is financially unreasonable for them. The local government leaders have generally responded that this is beneficial to them. At the same time, they say that if the legislator entrusts them with this task, they want to get extra money for it. For me, it is always a question of how much money should be given if this activity is already profitable. A very difficult task, I don't even know how to judge it or if it's gonna happen. But these are the kind of assignments we were talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U447	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U448	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! I'm going to specify my last question. You were a little unfair to senior government politician Jaak Allik, calling him an atheist and taking away his opportunity to believe in something. I think an atheist has a right to believe in something or not, even an anarchist. Can you perhaps explain why the Social Democrats are doing this with such a long tooth that they proposed to replace administrative reform with administrative territorial reform in the title of the draft? I don't think even they believe that sound name would meet the public's expectations. This reminds parents of their latest fashion illness to name their child Maximus Caesar or something like that. After that, expectations and reality may not match, and the worse the resentment is why such an ambitious title was placed. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to adopt the Socialist proposal? Let us simplify the name, make it a reform to redeploy borders and make it easier for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U449	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U450	Thank you. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U451	I join the point of the previous speaker's speech, especially the final part, that this reform-flavoured document will further destroy our rural area. Today, we received a propaganda brochure from the Ministry of Finance, the REGI, which explains how good the administrative reform is. There Minister Arto Aas says such historical words about administrative reform that coalition parties have reached an agreement for the first time in the restored Republic of Estonia and have been able to bring the administrative reform law to Parliament. Indeed, it is. But why is that? Let's look back on the past a little bit. I start from 1999, when the Minister of the Interior was Tarmo Loodus then there was no IRL, then I guess the Fatherland Alliance was, if I'm not wrong, who started drawing maps and bringing the first reform here before us, but it was soon extinct. Then came Vallo Reimaa, also from the Fatherland Union. He had a very good reform plan from my memory, but one day this guy was out of here, he was sent back home. He was a schoolteacher and continued his teaching career, I think he will continue to this day. This reform agenda was too good. Then Siim Kisler came. As he pointed out, for six years the brother worked as a minister and developed an administrative reform. Everything was like really nice. I was also in one of his working groups at the Ministry of the Interior, and I saw how they were written and drawn, drawn and written together and separated. At first there was a county-based reform and after came the attraction centers. Although there were also questions, such as what the centre of attraction is Urvaste, it turned out to be a very large centre of attraction. In any case, millions of euros were spent on this reform. Unfortunately, Minister Kisler didn't seem to respond today from this remote control to how much money was wasted. Then the election came and a new government came. Before that, just a few days before the elections, it was decided that the reform would not be completed here, and it was thrown into the trash of history. Those were big paper packages, I remember. That's right. Now we're asking why it's been like this. But you know, ladies and gentlemen, this has only been the case for one single reason: the squirrel party has not wanted to introduce administrative reform in Estonia. The Reform Party has not been interested in this because there have been proper men in place and it has guaranteed the Reform Party firm power in all local elections. Our former Prime Minister, now European Commissioner Andrus Ansip, has stressed from this very speaker that we do not need any administrative reform, because there are countries in the world with very small municipalities and also very large municipalities. That's what happened. Then it got interesting. I am a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs. After the elections, the new government began to work, and our Committee on Rural Affairs, Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, appeared eagerly. The item was the preparation of a report on the management reform. We were wondering. We asked how, Minister, the administrative reform is ready, waiting on the shelf, six years of preparation. But Mr. Pevkur said no, they're making a new administrative reform and they're starting now don't laugh! just a mapping. Exactly what he said, I'll tell you from memory. The Minister of the Interior said that they are going to map the municipalities, because it is necessary to find out what services the population of our country needs. You can check the verbatim if you have it anywhere. That's exactly what happened. Some kid's game started, started mapping and exploring what a rural man needed. As the previous speaker, Mr Ratas, said, there is no need to improve medical care, no improvement of the education system, no improvement of transport, etc. in the current draft that is on the table. In short, the Reform Party has been playing around this administrative reform all these years, and all coalition parties have also turned their fingers around. Right now, he's playing the exact same game. A new system of administrative reform is being prepared and, before drawing borders, it is quietly planned, where the reform party's men can be put to power in order to ensure that local authorities are also in power in the next elections. That's what this is all about. To see if the people have discussed this reform, I do not see it. I'm a vigilante who goes through the villages of South Estonia a lot. The people are not interested in this reform at all; they have given up. They say they'll do it. The dispute is only between municipal officials who will retain their job and who will be paid in the future. The Reform Party is currently providing compensation only for former rural municipality elders. This is how the same officials of Urvaste and Põdrala will actually be unemployed. That's what this game's about. No one has spoken to the people. The Minister also admitted that the public is not participating in the polls, that there is no activity. It is an interesting tendency that people will not come to these discussions, where they will talk about how administrative reform will change their lives in the future. I was a journalist here in Estonia during the Soviet period, and I remember very well that when the collective farms were united, there was exactly the same rhetoric and exactly the same game: the poorer collective farms must be joined with the strongest, then we can have one large, strong holding. This never happened, and all the farms that were so-called forced to join eventually died out. At the moment, we are precisely joining the municipalities in a coercive way, because, although we say that at first the merger is voluntary and only after the coercion, it is actually coerced from the beginning. An elder in every major rural municipality is looking for a way out to get him a job, and then he's forced to unite some poor rural municipality with his own. That's what this is all about. Siim Kiisler said very ugly words here about the city of Tallinn. I say to Mr Kiisler that the current government has now begun to deal with what Tallinn was doing 25 years ago in building rental apartments. Edgar Savisaare's government has built 6,000 rental apartments in Tallinn and the people are very pleased with this. If anyone makes criticism of Tallinn, ask the voters where they came from the 40,000 votes given to the mayor. Show me another municipality where the mayor or mayor is just as popular! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U452	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U453	Hatter, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U454	Honourable waitress! I will quickly return to the answer you gave to my previous question. Maybe you were wrong about the fact. It was not EUR 25 million that was taken from the taxpayer's pocket, but EUR 75 million. That's a lot of money. However, we must now consider as a political decision whether this money is more necessary for society as a whole or whether it is considered that on average each person receives EUR 4 more per month. Yes, we have been against the populist decision you made in your government, and we still share that view. You also mentioned that the government or legislative power has a duty to make sensible and effective decisions. Please define what is reasonable and effective! This morning we had a meeting with the Chancellor of Justice who said that the reform would run counter to the Constitution if it reduced the availability of public services. Please identify the public services that will improve with the implementation of the reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U455	First of all, I'm sorry I heard you say 25 million that you called it. But when you said 75 million, 75 million. Indeed, in this case, I am still three times more pleased that this money was left in people's pockets, not just 25 million, but a whole $75 million was left in people's pockets. Very good! I hope that the EKRE will also support a lower tax burden, not an increase in taxes. It is a pity if you want to pursue such a left-wing policy that more taxes and more redistribution. As far as the availability of public services is concerned, indeed, I do not see in this bill any provisions that would undermine the availability of public services. This creates opportunities for municipalities to improve access to public services. The reform will give a citizen of a municipality with less capacity the opportunity to gain access to the same services in the future, the same grants or other opportunities that are currently available to a larger citizen of a municipality. So the law offers a great opportunity to improve access to public services, but I really do not see any section here that would make this availability worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U456	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U457	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Waitress! In 2005, the city of Türi and three surrounding municipalities joined. It should be such an almost perfect addition example. What's going on out there today? What is happening is that the whole activity is concentrated on Türi, the life of the parishes is virtually gone. At the same time, Türi has the largest emigration in the whole county, almost half of the county's emigration. If the reform is only on paper like this, if the real functions are not dealt with, the local governments' revenue base is not restored, then this is the future of Estonia. Why are you rushing into this reform? Why do you not want to do substantial work, but do such a populist reform, which will increase uncertainty and increase emigration?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U458	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U459	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U460	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of the people who has been waiting for this time when there will be an administrative reform in Estonia. I've been involved in government management since 1991. I started out as a parish parent, and later I worked as a parish elder and mayor. I wasn't chosen to be a county elder because it should have been a party that ruled the country. But I'm not sad about it. I know how the country government has progressed. When I look at the countries around us, I see that Estonia is the only country in this region where no administrative reform has taken place. In Lithuania, immediately after regaining independence, the administrative reform was carried out and the counties became municipalities. Latvia did the administrative reform a few years ago. They had over 500 municipalities and now there are around 100. A week ago, in Räpina, I listened to the performance of a local government leader in Latvia. They will continue to think about how to strengthen the municipalities and start the next phase. It is probably not worth talking about Finland, Denmark and Sweden. You know that there have been reforms on several occasions. Interestingly, in all those countries that I have mentioned, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Denmark and Sweden, economic growth is higher than in Estonia. The number of municipalities does not in itself give rise to this, but I think that this may be one reason why Estonia's regions have not been able to develop, because our municipalities have remained weak and people's departure has weakened them. Since yesterday I read an article in Delfi that said the Central Party was supposed to be the main anti-administrative reform, I will tell you how it really is. For 20 years, only one party has slowed down administrative reform and this is the Reform Party. Now the Reform Party has sort of been reborn and has started to carry out forced municipal mergers, where the only criterion is the presence of at least 5 000 inhabitants on the territory of the municipality. There's been some mysterious rebirth of the Reform Party. For 15 years they stopped the reform, and now they have started to carry it out themselves. They already write that they are its authors, and that is why this reform is happening at all. I want to give a little credit to the IRL, who has so far been basically the initiator of administrative reform in Estonia. But unfortunately, the Reform Party has thrown all the plans and plans that the IRL has ever put into the trash. I regret that the worst option ever chosen for this reform was the one that could be chosen. Another of my simplest teas, or pencils and paper, was taken and the boundaries were re-drawn. The boundaries are now drawn in such a way that there are at least 5,000 people in the municipality. I ask what figure this 5000 people are, what criterion is it if the content is not touched at all. It does not concern how the municipal funding can be improved or their tasks clarified, the only criterion being that 5 000 people can become self-government. I understand that the Reform Party has also realised that Estonia will no longer be able to proceed if we do not have reform. But I do not understand when the reform is being carried out in such a way that there is no content. I also don't understand the IRL and the Social Democrats who keep praising it. I think that if we had taken as a basis the reform of the attraction centers proposed by the same Kisler, the map of Estonia would have become much more logical and understandable once it was implemented. I regret that this reform does not concern rural governments, rural elders or county-level activities. Without it, I do not think that this reform can be achieved. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U461	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U462	At the same time, the issue of the county level should also have been resolved. Do we need political rural elders who no longer have a mission of substance? Perhaps the functions of rural governments should have been shared and the functions of self-government given to local governments, and the state could, in my opinion, perform its functions in perhaps four or five centres, for which there should no longer be rural governments. I think the municipal centres could be located in the houses of rural governments. I am sorry that nothing has actually been done on the financing side. In 2009, the share of income tax to be paid to local governments was reduced from 11,93% to 11,43%. It hasn't been raised by a percentage point in these years. After all, we could have written in the reform programme that we raise the income base of the municipalities by 0.1% each year. This would also have been an indicator and would have been an understandable criterion. But nothing has happened in this area. They write some kind of bill that you can, I don't know, somewhere in 2018 or 2019 so and so many millions. Why should we believe that? If it's not written in the law, why should we believe it? In 2009, it was also promised that the local government's revenue base would be restored as soon as possible. Nothing has been done for this day. I am sad that one aspect of the reform is that we pay off the parish elders, mayors and councillors to come along with this reform. They simply receive a year's salary because of it, while those people who have worked in the field, such as the municipal and city secretaries, who are the guardians of the continuity of the municipality and who have worked there for decades, but perhaps even longer, are no one, because they are not on the political level and they are not deciding. I'm asking why these people have been excluded from this list. I am convinced that Estonia needs strong municipalities. These municipalities would also counterbalance the central government in order to be able to develop entrepreneurship, for example. If the revenue base is not improved and functions are not specified, this is simply not possible. I say that after this reform, you will see which interesting municipalities have become completely illogical on Estonia's surface. There are currently 13 municipalities in Põlva County. I think there might be three or four of them left. But there are five municipalities that have no fixed points. I began to wonder what they were united by, why they were reformin' together. They do this because all these five municipalities are run by local government leaders belonging to the Reform Party. If they have agreed that, after the reform, they will continue to lead them, is that the purpose of the reform for which the state spends so much taxpayers' money? I think we should give it up. To conclude, Estonia needs substantial changes in the issue of health care, public transport arrangements, social affairs, job creation and support for rural areas. These issues need solutions. Estonia, while your village still lives, you will also live! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U463	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! In answer to my question, you said make sure that there is little money anyway and there doesn't seem to be any more. In essence, this reform also puts the municipalities together mechanically and there is still no more money. However, this reform also does something far worse: it takes services away from people. When I look at Ida-Virumaa, there's a danger that such large municipalities will be formed that reach out to Jõgeva. This means that a normal person must start looking for all his services further away, his life will be more costly. I have the feeling that this will continue our current tax policy, which will essentially tax poverty. The failure of the state is placed on the wallet of ordinary citizens. Why is administrative reform not thought out how communities are actually formed, but what is done mechanically, which worsens people's habits?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U464	It depends on the municipality. I believe that you, too, recognise that our smaller and less capable municipalities are carrying out their tasks selectively. They have a lot of obligations under the law, hundreds and hundreds of them, but they just don't do everything, they make no choices. Some of the tasks are inevitably carried out in a very incompetent manner. I criticised the city of Tallinn here before, but the other way around, if you take up the Tallinn service catalogue, you will see what services they offer to people with disabilities. For example, people with reduced mobility who want to work have told me that they cannot work in their home country because the local government acknowledges that they are too poor to offer disabled transport to work. At the same time, the city of Tallinn can offer it. If we now have municipalities joining in a stronger direction, as I described earlier, then citizens of smaller and weaker municipalities will be able to take part in the same services that are already available in the larger and stronger neighbouring self-government with which they join. After accession, municipalities cannot hold such a situation for long, that they continue to provide some services in this so-called former city, but will not provide these services in the small area that joined them. After all, they must offer services to all citizens equally. As a result, residents of this small rural municipality will also receive services that were not yet available in their municipality. That's one direction. The second thing I very much hope for this to happen is the transfer of tasks. You are also well aware that right now our ministries are trying to take the responsibilities away from the municipalities. At the moment, it is not the trend that we give central government tasks to local governments, but rather it is said that we see it in education and in the social sphere, too, that we do not bother to mess around, that local governments are not going to be able to do it anyway. The central government shall bring these tasks under the authority of the Ministry or the State Administration subordinate to the Ministry. This means that budget money moves from the municipal budget to the budget of the state administration. It is then again complained that the proportion of municipal funding has decreased, but the decision-making power also moves to another place. Decisions are made in the state office, which is most likely located in Tallinn, and decisions are no longer taken in the municipality. That's the other way. Once the municipalities are strengthened, I hope that we will succeed in stopping this direction and that the tasks will once again begin to move back from the state agencies to the municipalities, together with the money, with the decision-making powers and the freedom of decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U465	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is motivated by your answer to Oudekki Loone's question. Of course, trees are being broken up with a person, but it was strange to hear that a good municipality does not organise things in such a way that a person should have a matter for the parish government. Yes, it is. And if you think that people can handle all the services and other issues over the Internet, last Thursday we had a matter of national importance here, where we got a very clear view that there is no Internet in every village and that the bus moves once a day, for example. But you said such a sentence that there will be new services with the administrative reform. As far as I know, there is no obvious link between size and quality. Please state which services will come specifically as a result of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U466	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U467	No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U468	Thank you. It is difficult to comment on what Jaak Allik thinks or thinks, all the more so as I certainly have very different views from his. I don't know how to relate to this long-standing Communist party member. As far as the views of the Social Democratic Party are concerned, they must certainly be asked more specifically. But one thing has been quite obvious: the administrative reform has given rise to very different opinions and huge differences of opinion, I dare say, in every political party, especially those parties that have been in Parliament longer. I know from my own experience the local government leaders of the Centre Party, who are fierce supporters of administrative reform, and I know from the same party the leaders of the local government who are fierce opponents. I can say the same about my party IRL. We also have people who are skeptical, or, as you said, will adopt this bill with a long tooth, and there are people who see very much positive in it. I think it is such a law and such a reform, where we cannot so unambiguously draw boundaries in political parties that if you belong to this party, you think so. In the Chamber of the Riigikogu, political groups certainly shape common positions, but we all admit that in Estonia we find very different opinions among our party associates. This is perhaps a comment on the attitudes of the Social Democratic Party beside the view that, just as we do, they have different attitudes. As far as the name is concerned, as I pointed out earlier, there was a debate on the name and whether there are points in the draft that can be seen more broadly as administrative reform, not as purely administrative territorial reform. The Commission took the view that it could be considered more broadly. I think that, above all, the administrative reform as a word is understandable and oral to people. Of course, those who engage in politics every day and are very involved in the matter will see the difference between administrative reform and administrative territorial reform more acutely. The draft I proposed was entitled the reform of the municipality. Different terms may be used, but I think people understand the word for administrative reform very well, and they understand it just as it is in today's draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U469	Thank you. I don't see this bill taking services away from people. The roads are still being cleaned in the same place. Education is still offered in the same place after the adoption of this bill. I don't see any changes here. If you consider the service to be that a person has to go to the parish government to complain about something, then I think it is simply the result of a very poorly organised municipal government's work. Ideally, a person should not visit a municipal building or administrative centre. Reasonable municipalities tend to think for themselves how often he goes to the parish house and what he does or why he has to go there. It is certainly a good government that does not force its people to go to the parish government. But the trees are still being destroyed in the man's home yard; they will not be broken in the parish government after this law has been passed. So I can't agree that the services are remote from the human being. Clearly, however, it can be foreseen that the ampoua of services provided to citizens will expand, that there will be more services and that they will be better on several occasions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U470	Thank you, it's been a long time! I think the question was understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U471	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U472	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'd like to ask you something like that. If, after the elections, the aim was to carry out the administrative reform, the Ministry was appointed, the Minister was appointed and assigned tasks. I was looking forward to something great coming up with some serious plan, some serious plan that the Ministry was going to implement. The document that came before us today, figuratively speaking, does not give out the volume of a ministerial document. It's kind of lean, at least it seems to me. I would like to know your opinion on whether it really was necessary to channel such a large resource. In my opinion, such a bill could be drawn up by a department of some ministry, and we would have the same thing in front of us today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U473	Thank you. The entire Ministry of Finance has not been involved in developing this draft. Olivia Talled, Ave Viks and Sulev Liivik have certainly made the most of the contributions here, who also participated in the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as officials of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the initiators. There's always more to be expected, but I'm also glad we have at least this bill here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U474	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U475	Thank you, Mr Kisler, for the answer to my previous question. It was short, but very educational for me. I got some kind of principled picture of this thing. The second question is more about the draft that we are now facing. What might be its weaknesses and greater dangers? I think you've already formulated one. If I understand correctly, a voluntary merger may result in entities that are not reasonable for one or more reasons, and there is no proper treatment for it. Can you still tell us what the troubles, the fears, or the dangers that are written in this bill are?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U476	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U477	Thank you. First of all, as regards the merger between the city of Türi and the three municipalities and their effects, this has also been analysed by scientists. A very good study of its effects is available, which also describes the fears that the inhabitants of their municipalities had in relation to peripheralisation and everything else. The study was conducted under the leadership of Georg Sootla. It is well pointed out that the fear of peripheralization could not be proven. The interesting fact is, too, that the inhabitants of Türi City were upset for a long time after this merger and claimed that all the money was now going outside the centre, that the money that was left at the centre would now go to the others. Interestingly, it was the opposite criticism that the surrounding municipalities suddenly became too much for the inhabitants of the city of Türi. But beauty is often in the eyes of the viewer. The fact that Järva County has the largest emigration in the combined municipality of Türi is quite natural, because Türi is the largest municipality in Järva County at all. He is even larger in number than Paide. It would probably be illogical to expect these figures to be somehow different, so that in absolute terms, for example, a small municipality of Järvamaa, which there are many, could cross Türi's parish in this respect. As regards the restoration of the local governments' revenue base, I had the honour of being a member of the government responsible for this area at a time when this revenue base was excellence, which has been highlighted a lot here and which the Centre Party has often set its goal. I can assure you that the reproaches and criticisms were exactly the same, the exact same thing was said, that money was damn low and nothing could be done. On the basis of your current proposals and comments, you might think that there were dairy rivers and porridge mountains, but it was just as deaf that there was no money at all. I suggest you also do a small calculation, look at the municipality's income base. Trimmed from 11,93% to 11,4% of gross income. Correction for the loss of land tax, compensation for the tax on homeland land, rise to 11.6. If we ignore this and compare only the change in the share of personal income tax, it is less than 5% of the total income tax received by individuals. In smaller municipalities, the income from personal income tax often accounts for even less than half of the local government's income. In summary, however, about half of the municipality's income is equal, so you can actually divide that 5% by two. If you now truly believe that even this 5% will fundamentally change the situation of our smaller municipalities, then I really suggest you make these calculations again. See if all these problems can be resolved if, for example, a municipality with an annual budget of EUR 1 million receives an increase of 5%.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U478	Thank you. I would like to point out the situation that I described here earlier. Let us say that some municipalities have in good faith held up their accession negotiations and achieved compliance with this minimum criterion, or even an indicative criterion, i.e. that of the 11000 inhabitants. They have made all the arrangements between themselves, negotiated what they will look like in the future, for example, a school network or a network of other institutions, libraries, whatever local authorities. They have discussed the level of support to be paid by the merging municipality, the level of land tax, etc. All these things have been discussed. For some reason, there is a municipality next to it that has not wanted to talk to them or that they have for some reason assumed that this municipality could join in another direction. However, this neighbour has failed and, in the next stage, the government is proposing to join him as well. But others have all the negotiations, all the agreements have been made, and it is very likely that whoever is left out could also be in a relatively difficult financial position. He thinks he can manage his budget, he has not gone under reorganisation, so he has managed, but he does not have these available resources for the benefits already agreed in previous accession negotiations. The question now arises as to how to reallocate funds in such a way as to ensure that the citizens of this fourth candidate also have all the same benefits. Is there going to be a transition period or how to do it? I think it is legally difficult, technically difficult and certainly very difficult situations, too, psychologically. This is a concern, and that is why both the initiator and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have the hope that they will still join voluntarily as a result of negotiations between themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U479	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U480	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The reform is to be implemented with EUR 80 million, which is intended to a large extent for local government leaders. Unfortunately, only the leaders of the municipalities who voluntarily join will be rewarded. Does it not seem to you that such a reward and this money has a very clear taste of corruption and of buying support for reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U481	First of all, the initiator has not, however, spoken of 80 million euros, but of a size of 60 to 65 million euros. A precise assessment cannot be made because we do not yet know what kind of mergers are going to be. As these grants also extend to municipalities that do not need to join, but may do so, it is difficult to predict. For example, two municipalities with more than 5 000 inhabitants may join and then ask for the support they are entitled to. We do not know how many such situations can arise, and it is therefore more difficult to predict this amount. As regards how much of this amount is paid to local government leaders who lose their jobs for grants or benefits, I must apologise here. The initiator of the bill said it out loud, and if I'm not mistaken now, it was 2% of all the money. I hope I'm not wrong. The order of magnitude is certainly correct, but I think it was estimated that 2% of the maximum could go into these benefits. So it certainly does not make up much of the subsidies that are being paid out. The third question concerned corruption. Corruption is clearly defined in our laws. Corruption still means that members of the Riigikogu should benefit from some sort of personal gain if they support such a law. But I don't see it from anywhere, where we, as decision-makers, would have described it, so I don't see it here. Providing social guarantees to current local government leaders is certainly a factor in the implementation of the reform. The Latvians have used the same thing in their reforms. Finns have given much stronger guarantees, such as securing a job in the municipality after accession for five years. So the social guarantees for Finns are much stronger than those foreseen in this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U482	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U483	Good ambassadors! Administrative reform cannot be made solely because of reform, because let us be honest, it is not a reform. It should be said that by shifting borders, my dear friends, it is too late. It should have been done in the last century. As we walk around Estonia, we note that municipalities feel deceived by this bill. First. For decades, the state has paid experts who have talked about the tasks, competences and income base of local governments. Everyone has taken this as a sensible and intelligent talk, except that the state has not come to the aid of experts and local authorities and has not helped to do all this. Now these same experts, for the money of the same country, say that there is no longer a need for a revenue base or discussion of the functions of the municipality, but only one criterion of 5000 inhabitants. Municipalities feel that both the country and them have been deceived. Second. The municipalities really feel that they are being reduced by paying benefits. They feel that they are like cheap goods that can be moved by money to one side or the other. Three. We met with the local government leaders in Mulgimaa. At this meeting, only one party was largely represented at the table, the same party whose representative defended this draft. They thanked the Free Party, who had come to the country to talk about administrative reform. Why do we need political parties if the members of the party and the management do not go directly to their members to talk about the administrative reform that concerns each of us? Four. There is a sense of disappointment that even if they join voluntarily, there is no guarantee that the government will not force anyone to join it. The previous speaker also pointed out as a weakness that there is no guarantee that what is stated in the Accession Treaty will actually remain valid. I also come to an important issue for me, which is the need to divide Tallinn. Indeed, our aim is to give a message that Estonia needs more equal governments. We do not need Tallinn's division to take down lifetime officials. They'll leave in due course. But with the division of Tallinn, we will not weaken this strong self-government. Tallinn will remain stronger than the new municipalities that will be formed when the population of the districts starts at 35000. Local government leaders elsewhere are very disappointed that they are viewed as kingdoms compared to small governments. This bill, which gives different tasks, is not capable of being carried out by others. What is the next big plus for Tallinn distribution? This shows that we need more cooperation. Let's look at the Stockholm model, let's look at the Copenhagen model and also the Helsinki model! The organisation of public transport, the educational network, we need to understand that without cooperation, Estonia is not going anywhere. Tallinn must really remain a centre of attraction, not just a centre of attraction in Estonia, but we must also talk about the export of tourism and industry. We need to understand that sharing services together is what is going on. The draft law on administrative reform does not provide any guarantees that the provision of services will become more effective or better, whatever it takes. I would like to point out that the Free Party has come to the political landscape with the aim of asking how-to-questions. We certainly have different ideas, as well as many similar ideas about the problems. But we don't want to focus on how-issues. Therefore, our proposals for administrative reform are not based on technical needs, although this draft is technical, it is not substantive, but we have tried to provide substantive solutions with our amendments. We will continue to do so. It was somewhat touching when the Commission rapporteur was concerned that I could not participate in the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Probably missed me. I was in Iceland with a delegation from the OSCE, where many Nordic countries reported that they were doing the same in terms of administrative reform. The security situation has become so serious that security costs need to be increased, but at the expense of something. Therefore, the Free Party Group proposes that the second reading of the draft law on administrative reform 200 be interrupted in order to give the government and the coalition the opportunity to discuss matters in substance. What has happened so far has been purely listening, but our society will not move forward if we remain listening to one-sided monologists. We need dialogue and debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U484	Well, then! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U485	Mr. Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Estonia has reached an important milestone in its development, which bears the name 'Stenbock House recognizes with one voice that the administrative reform of Maarja County is quite necessary'. As the years go by, the material size of this roadmark, which has been removed from Finnish granite and has been polished by Estonian masters, continues to grow, and its brilliance is increasingly brightened by the flow of time. A multi-level cult trap has been built around this pillar, where Eurocooks have already been a diligent sacrifice. True, for the time being, as solid promises, which have been cremated with the large seal of Stenbock's house. These Eurocrumbs are truly delighted by the good rural and urban fathers and mothers who will see the imminent end of their current rulers. This joy will give them great strength to go a different way now than was decided by the people of their subjects during the noise. Now a quarter of the draft administrative reform, i.e. the law, has reached this hall, essentially in the form of a draft administrative territorial reform of 200. The draft law on administrative reform is still far from being dealt with internally. For a long time, the faction of the Central Party Riigikogu has discussed 200 draft laws currently being discussed in its repeated debates. I am sure that our group's willingness to be in a constructive opposition to this issue with the government coalition has been loud in these debates. However, we were not given such an opportunity. I am very sorry about this, because I consider substantive administrative reform to be very necessary. It cannot be replaced by the surrogate bill here. On the contrary, the important argument of the IRL in its own time regarding the administrative reform has disappeared from the draft. The centre of attraction in the parish of our historic municipality was a settlement with a church in the centre of the village. The Administrative Reform Act requires an indication of the substantive prerequisites for the merger of local government units due to natural, economic and demographic circumstances and conditions, as well as, to a considerable extent, historical and cultural heritage. The state must allow its strong support for the launch of regional economic pilot projects, which would be an important part of the local authorities' financial base. All this in order to ensure that the administrative reform directly promotes regional development, rather than essentially covering it with a shroud. This means that merging municipalities know their tasks and their revenue base in the best way possible. Good comrades! Estonia needs substantive changes. This will include improved access to health care, public transport, social assistance and education, and development of regions, including job creation and support for rural areas. The draft that is currently being discussed is an empty and meaningless document in its essence. There is a serious risk that when it becomes a law, it will put Estonia's rural territory to death. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U486	Three minutes of grace, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U487	Mr President! Honourable night ambassadors! I would point out that, according to the Rules of Procedure, there is also such a possibility that the Board of the Riigikogu, the lead commission or the initiator of the draft can decide to interrupt the second reading. In that case, we should not be voting on it here. I think it would be a clear signal that we are taking the parliamentary procedure seriously. Unfortunately, none of them have. The vice-chairman has just replaced the chairman in the chair, but he has not come to the detriment of that simple thought. I think it's very bad, because if there was such a signal, it would probably have been the stretch that was going on here last night, and there would have been no further delay, because that signal would be some kind of sign of goodwill. Yes, the more than 200 amendments tabled were reduced to a much smaller amount in the Commission. All right, well, they can be grouped if the proposals are handled in a sensible way, but unfortunately, the proposals were dealt with precisely in this style, so don't put anything into this, because we in the government have decided that we are doing this and not the other way. This is not a very good soil for dialogue. In Question Time, which has now passed 12 hours, I was seriously surprised by the Prime Minister's reply when he expressed it in a way that, look, this reform has been planned for nearly 20 years, everything has been considered and analysed, and now you in the Riigikogu will not delay any more procedures. I don't know what it was like 20 years ago, but what happened 15 years ago and beyond, I remember very clearly. This was precisely the Reform Party, which held back Minister Nature's plan for administrative reform, which would reward the protest spirit in the municipalities and presidential elections of the victorious Arnold Rüütli. It was costing us to pick points on the fact that the administrative reform at that time had been sunk. This self-government reform, which is foreseen by this draft, I say, is neither effective nor effective. The big question marks come with what happens to the revenue base, what happens to the services that become of the draft laws in the field, because we do not have any information about them. The concerns and amendments of the Free Party relate mainly to two aspects. One thing is what you do to protect local communities. The idea of public administration is not our idea. It's like a pitiful tool that's been included in this bill. We think it's a stillborn tool. We have tried to give it every chance of life with our proposals. I would also point out that, according to our estimates, a thousand council members will be reduced for all over Estonia, and democracy will be reduced. If these divisions, small ones, no matter what happens, and communities do not work or they are weak, then the culture of self-determination in Estonia will be hit hard and peripheralization will deepen. The second thing that has also been highlighted here, the so-called 'gerrymandering' or the shifting of the electoral boundaries in order to secure the positions of the power parties, is, unfortunately, quite obvious in this draft. The Reform Party is really playing this game. As some kind of consolation prize, the Commission's discussion apparently allowed some seats for smaller coalition partners in the regional committees. But it's generally a very bad practice that might come out of here. The local electoral alliances will certainly lose out in this process. That is what Mr Kisler said, and Mr Sepp, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, wrote some time ago, that these proposals do not seem to relate to this draft. They don't fit in. However, this bill is not suitable for us in this form, because it is a partial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U488	Igor Gräzin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U489	In the opinion of the Free Party, the very fundamental questions in this draft concern the possibility for citizens of a municipality or a district to organise their own living environment. In our opinion, a division or a district is a form of community; the coalition considers that a division and a district are an incomprehensible structure from above, which is allowed from time to time to nod at the decisions of the council. The fundamental question that the reform should be based not on the abstract interest of the state, but on the Estonian person whose quality of life and opportunities to decide on his or her life should improve does not solve the bill. That is why the Free Party has proposed the possibility that the level of government should be further and united, but the decision-making power should remain on the ground, at the first level. Unfortunately, this approach is not suitable for the current government. During the spring of this year, several strange changes of power took place in the municipalities of Estonia, the hidden content of which appears to be to attract industrious and loyal people to power, who help to carry out the merger and in return receive compensation of 12 monthly wages. Nebokat, Secretary General of the Reform Party, recently conducted one of these embarrassing power grabs in Ridala rural municipality in Lääne County. There were also coups in Saue City, and there have been experiments in many places. The pattern is still the same: the electoral union is being pushed out of power, the government departments are being replaced. That is why the Free Party proposed that only those local government leaders who have been in office for a longer time could receive compensation since the previous elections. Of course, such a proposal was not in line with the requests of the government union and did not find support. In today's Question Time, although already in yesterday's Question Time, an important discussion began, why not even the round of coordination has reached the drafts and legislation that would give this so-called Administrative Reform Act real substance. The Prime Minister could not give us a substantive answer. How, then, can we adopt the law in its current form? That wouldn't be responsible. So once again, the Free Party believes that it is only possible to interrupt the second reading of the draft today and to continue working on this draft, not with a roller, but with instruments suitable for precise work. Paraphrasing Mr Gräzini: the coalition, do not be afraid, do not be afraid of these ideas of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U490	Erki Savisaar, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U491	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the birthday child and everyone who follows this debate through the media. I agree that the reform of local governments is inevitable and necessary. However, I do not agree with the haste and the superficialness of the draft under discussion. The draft is completely absurd and empty, containing only the silence fee for the parish elders and abstract criteria for the number of inhabitants. At the same time, it has been said that the Administrative Reform Act regulates the first phase of the administrative reform, the main focus of which is the reform of the administrative-territorial organisation of local government. It should therefore be like the first step in the reform. But what are the next steps, or how many of these steps follow? Why have these plans not been brought to the Riigikogu for discussion, or what is the larger and longer time plan? I think it's an important process for the doers, but it's not a result. I propose that, if the mergers currently planned in the course of the negotiations are to take place, then a year or two should be taken off and evaluated and analysed how the merged municipalities can cope with one hat. If we've had a lot of time so far, they'd be very necessary for a few or three years of satisfying outcome. If we look at the objective of administrative reform, it is ideal. Listen: 'The aim of the administrative reform is to form, on average, significantly more capable municipalities that are able to manage themselves in the current economic environment, plan the development of the region more comprehensively, offer public services with a higher quality, and thereby inhibit marginalisation and balance Estonia's regional development. " Listening already makes you feel good, which means that Estonians are starting to believe that this is happening. However, in view of the developments so far, I do not think so. If 5% of Estonia's territory gets better and 20% of the territory stays the same, then the rest of Estonia, three quarters of Estonia will probably get worse. Having read the draft and its explanatory memorandum, I have reason to fear that the proposed reform will make wealthy municipalities less prosperous, but it will not bring wealth to the poorer regions. Let me give you an example. A few weeks ago, Järva's Journal and, I think, Postimees' columns published a map of Järvamaa with information about the territory and population of each municipality. According to the population register, a total of 31046 people lived in Järvamaa rural municipalities and towns on 1 April, and 155 people lived less than at the beginning of the year. It was immediately noted that in the Türi municipality, which was set as an example for all in 2005 for the merger of local governments, three municipalities and one city joined at the time, the population has already fallen by 79 people in the first three months of this year, which makes more than half of the total population in Järvamaa. According to the objective of the administrative reform, the municipality of Türi, where 9412 people lived as of 1 April 2016, should be significantly more capable of managing itself in the current economic environment than in the 10 years after the accession, be able to offer public services in a more comprehensive way, thereby limiting peripheralisation and balancing Estonia's regional development. Unfortunately, the municipality of Türi is a warning example that even a large number of residents will not save themselves from marginalization if the state's attitude towards local self-government remains superior and local governance is one-sided and focuses solely on the development of the city of Türi. I consider it another issue that, in order to guarantee the minimum size criterion of the municipality, the government is given the right to intervene in the merger process of the municipalities during the administrative reform. If the municipality has fewer than 5000 inhabitants or remains smaller than this size after the proposed merger, the Government of the Republic must initiate a so-called forced merger in order to create a municipality of at least the minimum size. In my opinion, such a coercive merger will create a situation in which successful ones will be punished and bystanders rewarded. What is this cookie that somebody wants to work for and settle the outskirts or restore the lost village life to? I'm not reading it out of the bill. There are certainly people who have always been found, who will be in court with the state during the administrative reform. It is also certain that local authorities, especially those in which poverty is to be grafted, will also go to court in the course of compulsory integration. The addition of poverty has never produced wealth. Here is another remark that the administrative reform needs to be significantly more money than was originally planned. The budget for administrative reform is important, increasing it can avoid litigation and ultimately help to smooth out the problems that inevitably arise during the compulsory integration of poorer regions. There is certainly a need to review the functioning of the system of administrative courts. If the efficiency of the administrative courts, especially the courts of second instance, remains at the same level as today, problems may arise in the municipal elections next autumn, because it is not yet clear where to choose and who to choose during litigation. Finally, when we look at who the draft preparers are, we see that the draft and the explanatory memorandum have been prepared by Ave Viks, Adviser to the Regional Administration Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Olivia Tellus, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Finance. The explanatory memorandum mentions a number of good specialists who have contributed their work and knowledge to the drafting of the draft explanatory memorandum. These people are predominantly in office at the Ministry of Finance. But who has the Ministry of Finance today? The answer is, IRL has it. Although the coalition has agreed on the general principles of administrative reform, I am not sure that joint responsibility for the consequences will also be sought. It is certain that if something goes well, the reformers will brag about it, while if something should go wrong, it is easy to say that it has been done by the IRL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U492	Time! Thank you. Marika Tuus-Sing, happy birthday! On my birthday, I'll give you three minutes in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U493	Thank you very much for all your congratulations. But when it comes to administrative reform, indeed, it has been done throughout the period of regaining independence. Heimar Lenk here reminded me of these stages and people. We all remember drawing maps of Tarmo Nature. Speaking of Siim Kisler, a few years ago, it was true that he tried to do so and took it into his own heart. I think that if some of the amendments had worked out, we would have agreed. The reform based on the drawing centres was a good thing for us in any case. But the way the Reform Party beat this work to the ground was indeed a typical reform party's behaviour. Everything that others do is not good for anywhere, but it is the opinion of the Reform Party and the wrong opinion. Now the reins were taken over and the reform is born in the interests of squirrels, in order to gain more and more positions and influence over Estonia and to secure its power again in the local elections in a year's time. All this work in this Chamber right now is actually under an election label, no matter what, it's a presidential election or a local election. Unfortunately, the IRLs and they're following the Reform Party. But the reform party's administrative reform is really empty and crude and will completely put the countryside to death. I will bring a parallel to the work capacity reform. When the draft law arrived in this hall in 2014, it was a naked shell. The accompanying laws had not even started, and yet several ministers had also prepared it, from Pevkur to Taavi Rõivas, then Minister of Social Affairs. As Prime Minister, Kõivas demanded the immediate adoption of this law. I must once again congratulate Helmen for having had the strength to resist it that time. After all, this reform is still being carried out, and it is getting better and better. So it's this kind of squirrel working method. The administrative reform is exactly the same. Let's pick up the hurry, but nobody understands what we're gonna take now. In essence, local authorities are simply wanted to add mechanically, and then predominantly forced union. All the accompanying laws have not been developed and the possible results of restructuring cannot be assessed at all. The Reform Party has been in power for 20 years, and all this time, some indirect talk about the reform of local governments is being dimmed. In fact, it was never intended to be carried out. I, too, remember Ansip repeatedly saying that let us not place so much emphasis on the provision of services. Siim Kallas promised to continue the Ansip line so that this reform would not take place the same way. In fact, I think that this reform has not been born yet, and we do not even know if it will happen. I remember when, in 2010, the Human Development Report was discussed in this Chamber, where the topic of local governments was dissected. The direct conclusion made in this Chamber was that regional development is characterised by stagnation and imbalances. What happened with that knowledge? Nothing. Rural development over the last few years has been based only on the hope of receiving European Union funding. In general, however, rural areas were deliberately extinct and are now being further killed. This is a familiar story for all of us: the disappearance of post offices, the disappearance of branches, the closure of health insurance departments, the abolition of schools, the contraction of medical care, the destruction of agriculture, the cessation of the return of pensions, the gradual disappearance of bus traffic. What else has this historic trio, the constant power of the three parties, done to us? We remember that, when there was a time of depression, Europe paid subsidies to the municipalities in these circumstances, but we cut the money and the greens came up with their voices, if you remember. The Centre Party gave the case a legal turn, and the decision of the Supreme Court's General Assembly sounded that the responsibilities and financial responsibility between the state and local governments were out of place. But it is mostly the one and the same coalition that has failed to get out of it, and it is still given new tasks to the municipalities, but no money will be given. This issue remains unresolved to date, the issues of the functions and revenue base of local governments are still open, the money is given to a great deal of decoy in order to unite and join, but people are not told what is being won by this reform and what is actually being lost. It is clear that this centralisation will make people's situation worse and drive services beyond them. I see every minister acting on his own right now. One minister deals with the networking of hospitals and cutting medical care under the label of state reform, i.e. hospital reform, the other is dealing with the cutting of the school network, i.e. the reform of the school network, and the third is the reform of social services. But actually, we should put all these reforms on top of each other so that these plans and reform programmes overlap. It should be done, but we're doing something different, and we don't have a whole picture. We do not see the organisation of the state's regional administration at the moment. What are the logical criteria for accession? Not just the population. We need substance for this reform, but we do not see the laws in this area. Estonia actually needs a change of substance; Estonia also needs a relaunch in rural areas. Medical assistance, public transport, social assistance, access to education, development of regions, job creation, support for rural areas there are problems that need to be addressed. In vain and meaningless administrative reform, however, kills life on earth. The village of Estonia must live, then the whole of Estonia will live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U494	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U495	Mr President! Good ambassadors! I will stop at two points, which in my opinion have not been too much affected during the debate on the draft law on administrative reform, but they are very important. I would like to talk for a few minutes about the impact this bill will have on our demographic situation and the provision of public services. As we know, one of the biggest problems facing Estonia is the question of the sustainability of the so-called population. I've talked about this before in this Chamber because our people are our wealth. We know that we have three major problems in population policy. Firstly, age-related questions on how to fight against the rate of dependants rising from 1.6 to 2.0. Secondly, the population decline, which we have about 4800 people a year. We are also talking about why we have such a low birth rate and about the change in population structure. However, the Administrative Reform Act does not currently deal with population policy and its effects. If we do not deal with this, the population crisis will actually lead to a crisis in the social system. However, the law on administrative reform has a major impact on demographics. It affects whether it will be possible to live in every corner of Estonia in the future, whether rural development is encouraged, or whether it is their demise, and how people are disappointed, which leaves their homeland behind and decide to leave here. The code of good regulation and regulation provides very clear guidelines that the effects of the draft law, which are positive but also its undesirable effects, must be assessed. Paragraph 46 of that rule states that the social, including demographic, impact of the draft must be assessed and analysed. Having examined very thoroughly the long explanatory memorandum to the draft, I found on page 92 a sentence that the draft had a positive impact on demography. But what is this effect, and how does it affect demography? Yes, we are talking about the number of employees in the merging municipalities and the impact on jobs. This means reducing the number of jobs. And that's the whole assessment of demography. We now come to public services. In this same explanatory memorandum, we find that many problems need to be addressed in the social field. Today, unfortunately, our local authorities are not able and are not at their height to carry out the tasks assigned to them. The solution is also proposed: the larger municipality is more capable. HAPPY calls for a comprehensive impact assessment. However, in the areas I have referred to, the analysis has obviously been formal, not substantive. This is actually a very serious problem, because we do not know what the impact of the draft is in reality. If the draft had been accompanied by the necessary regulations to determine which public services must be provided by the municipality and which are not, it would be much easier to make this decision. When I asked Minister Asa, at first reading of the law, to name the public services to be provided by one local authority, I received the reply that it was all written in different laws. Such an attitude is in no way acceptable. The Minister must be up to his duties and be able to answer this question. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U496	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U497	If the municipality currently does not provide the necessary public services, it is necessary to organise the lists of services and grants provided by the municipalities and the state. Yes, we are not satisfied at the moment with the provision of public services and the slow development that has been. So we are now in a unique situation where we are able to get the public services right, such as what services need to be provided by local authorities, which might make sense for the state to take over and how to put the provision of services in the hands of private or third sectors. Why should the provision of services be transferred to a third sector or private sector? Because they are better informed about what is happening in society, they know better about the needs of their communities, they are faster and more innovative, but often also more sustainable than, for example, some service mammoth providers. It is therefore the task of the state to support and trust, and at the same time to control the provision of public services and to enable the community to win, to stop emigration and to increase people's well-being and their faith in its country and to inspire confidence in the future by reducing social and regional differences. Given the weight of the draft, I find it very astonishing that impact assessments have not been taken seriously, as only the appeal of size of 5,000 or 11000 does not give any certainty. There is no clear link between size and quality. All the more so as public services move beyond people. That's a fact. Yes, if you compare Tallinn and some small rural municipalities, then really, the Tallinn service catalogue is more diverse. But that's not the rule. There are small municipalities where, knowing local conditions, all the services that a person needs are provided. It is a question of priorities in many respects. All the more so before the law is passed, we need a broad debate and agreement on public services and draft regulations. Only then can we talk about a real draft law on administrative reform. On the basis of the foregoing alone, I agree that it would actually be best to interrupt the second reading now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U498	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U499	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U500	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U501	Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are once again discussing administrative reform. There are many ideas in this regard, much less consensus than there are at all. I will try to be constructively critical in my speech. It is clear to everyone that Estonia needs substantive changes. There is no need to prove at length that the public is concerned about the state of health care, as well as about public transport, social assistance and access to education. More should have been done for the development of regions, for the creation of jobs and for the support of rural areas, which many consider to be suffering from a serious crisis. Does the administrative reform plan provide answers to these questions? After all, a bottomless and unprotected administrative reform will not bring any relief. Not only is it dying out of life in the countryside even faster. I will give some ideas and give examples of the region that I know better. After all, I have been elected to the Riigikogu from the districts of Läänemaa, Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, which is why my focus is constantly on the problems of these municipalities, including their accession negotiations. The merger of municipalities is considered to be meaningful everywhere if it ensures better administration, greater capacity and stronger civil society. At the heart of administrative mathematics is certainly the creation of a strategic level of governance that would allow the focus to be placed on the development of the region as a whole. This would even create a new type of management organisation for the municipality. The central level of the merged municipality would deal with strategic issues and service development. Logically, day-to-day services should be provided by municipalities and administrative service centres. Of course, all of this leads to the need to develop a competent and motivated civil society, and it is very important, but it is undoubtedly difficult to carry out this official group as close to the citizens as possible. The Estonians hope that the U.S. government will be a significant cooperation partner in Estonia as well as in the Baltic Sea region as a whole. If this is achieved, it can be expected that investment opportunities will increase and that the financing of the European Union's Structural Funds and its better use will be improved. The topics, wishes and objectives are, of course, much more, but they are certainly among the main ones. If, for example, today's state of creation and the problems that have arisen there are now specifically addressed, for example, the great municipality of East Island, there are several of them. It is good that representatives of Leisi, Pöide, Orissaare, Laimjala and Valjala have started joint meetings. A representative initiative group has been set up and a further action plan has been discussed, including sectoral issues. The town of Kuressaare's proposal to leave local merger plans in place and to focus instead on the formation of a municipality covering the whole of Saaremaa has not been forgotten. As we know, the lead committee for the merger of Saaremaa municipalities has begun its work. At first, we can talk about a mere theoretical exchange, since the offer of Kuressaare, the Municipality Council of Pöide, Muhu and Ruhnu, has not yet been accepted. The people of the Pöide thus contribute to the grand government of East Island. This is also a challenging process, because until now the joint centre of East Saaremaa and the logical governance structure that follows have not been agreed. Some distrustful people have already come to believe that in the shadow of the creation of the great government of East Island, the present state of affairs and the present structures are being dealt with. In the second round of negotiations on the day before yesterday, the representatives of the five merging municipalities addressed the overall objectives of the merger, stressing the sustainability of the joint action, the flexibility of services, the enhancement of management capacity and the ideas of public involvement. It is important to constantly support the opportunities for civil society organisations and communities to participate at different levels of governance. Involvement of representatives of civil society organisations in the management of different levels of administration of the municipality is a good opportunity, whether it be an administrative service centre, a public municipality, a rural municipality council or a municipality government. A common vision of the elections of the representative council of the common municipality is emerging. The negotiators agree on the principles of regional specificities and traditions, as well as the development of culture, sport, village life, societies and partnerships. The work will certainly be facilitated by a website reflecting the integration process of East Island, which will allow reflections on any subject, often on educational issues. Access to early childhood education in all regions is important. Collectively, investment must be planned to clean up and improve education infrastructure. We must not forget the development of recreational education and youth work centres through as much co-ordination as possible. These are some concrete examples of the meaning of the content of the administrative reform, because, I repeat, the empty administrative reform dies rather than promotes life in Estonia. That is why we are critical of the draft law on administrative reform initiated by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U502	Aadu Black, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U503	Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot of overlapping talk going on here today. Turns out the flaws, as we can see, are similar. In order not to repeat everything that has been said, I thought that perhaps we should go back to the real roots and say a few words about the historical background of the local government. I could already say in my question that history is a collective experience from which to learn. I also said that the fools learn only from their mistakes, if they learn at all, the wise learn from the mistakes and history of others. Obviously, it makes sense for us to keep that in mind, too. When Estonia actually developed rural municipalities as a result of the 1867 reform, there were a thousand of them, saying with a very large generalisation, because every manor had a rural municipality. There were big ones, there were small ones, so the picture was very written. Of course, various mergers began immediately. At first, this merger mechanism was quite simple. Still through the wallet. It turned out that the small parish was so ineffective that the only wise idea was to meet the neighbor. The main conclusion made from these early parishes was from the beginning what the landlords, looking aside, were surprised that they freed the creative energy of the local people. The main surprise was that if the manor wanted to do something and had to pay a certain amount of money for it, the parish managed to do half or a third of it, because if someone uses their money, the money collected from their own taxation, they can be more effective. Perhaps there was a large party of local governments, which went unnoticed by many even then, in 1870 when the men of Pärnumaa arrived at the fact that they submitted the statutes of the Pärnu Estonian Farmers' Association for the confirmation of St Petersburg. It remained unconfirmed simply because, pagan, these men wanted to make a county government. As a result, the papers were returned, the nobility was terrified, and something completely different had to be done. The next surprise, which showed how thrilled the people of Estonia were from their municipality, came from Russia, where the emigrated Estonians also decided to open up. There was a big argument. Finally, the Ministry of State Property very much praised them and said that they were good, good and economically efficient, but the Ministry of the Interior announced that Bolno shumnye, and had them sent to Siberia. It got exciting in the 1890s when the government decided that small ones had to be joined by force. From there came the following conclusion: coercion caused anger and hatred during generations. It turns out that during the 1905 revolution, the municipalities that were put together by force in South Estonia sent a thousand active people, usually former parish elders and the other half, to Siberia by decision of the municipality government. Usually these conflicts arose where somebody was assembled by force. When the Republic of Estonia was born, it must be said that there were wise men, they were wise, but, surprise-surprise, also emotional. If we look at the memoirs of the people who participated in the Constituent Assembly in 1919, then the idea that the municipality could have become a municipality at the time will come out. When the parish was originally about a thousand, there were a hundred parishes and they wanted the parish as an administrative unit. Theodor Pool has written why it failed. It's because the emotions were distracting. They knew it was right, and the parish would have been a pretty normal unit. Even if we look at the image of the reconnaissance satellite today, half of Estonia's parish boundaries are still seen on the map as rivers or other objects in nature. But Theodor Pool said it couldn't be done. See, every settlement has a character, and the parish elders found that the church village or parish center was somehow German. We know about "Spring" and "Toots" stories. Maybe it was a little German, still a German pastor, etc. There was another reason. In 1918, others had done the same during the German occupation. For the German occupation powers, the administrative centre was the parish and it was not suitable to take over. At the same time, the same parish, which we do not talk about much, was quite different from the church village in the 1880s. There was, yes, of course parish school, there was a cemetery. We all know that. But is it known that already in the 1880s there was a parish doctor in all these 100 parishes? Right now, we're talking that, oh-oh, medical care has migrated to Finland. So the parish, said the waking Estonian men at the time, would have been right, but emotion was distracted. Looking at the development of the Estonian administration, another simple conclusion was reached at the time: the municipality is not measurable in any of the best sizes. It turns out that it is a living organism that is best at any time in accordance with the needs of the time. Time goes on and the municipality also grows. If we compare, for example, the size of the municipalities in Saaremaa and Gotland at that time, we can see that they evolved in quite sync. True, Gotland reached one of the municipalities, but we still had time. Speaking of this day, it has already been repeated that, in fact, it is important for each municipality: its own government with its own rules and its own tax rights. Then decisions will be cheaper today. We compare Estonia and Sweden. It turns out that when it is done in Sweden for one money, we will need two money, because we will be helped by the state, in particular, by laying down rules and we are not oriented towards spending money, not to obtain results, but to comply with the rules. If that happens, then really nothing comes out of uniting the municipalities. Certainly, rural reforms are necessary, administrative reform is necessary, but this can only be successful if we learn about our success stories and loss stories, as well as about others. Learning from the story of success means that the municipality really has to have independent decision-making, then it spends its money efficiently, does not waste or simply complete the plan, as is the custom in the Estonian country at times. Believe me, it's a tradition that we've survived since the Soviets that we're just in case the rules are met, but we're not watching if there's a result or not. We could talk more, but I think that's enough at a late hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U504	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U505	Thank you. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U506	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday I was able to watch the new Estonian film 'Polar Boy'. It was about a very modern disease, namely bipolarity. Bipolarity is such a disease that at one point a great deal of euphoria, a feeling of well - being, a feeling of pleasure, and a deep depression are affected. When I came into professional politics, I was struck by that first feeling when I heard that, oh, wow, there was going to be an administrative reform. I was really euphoric, like the rest of the Free Party, and I thought that this was really our chance, we could be with some historical thing and shape Estonia a little bit in our own image. We dreamed of how Estonian communities would live after the reform. We thought they could make their own decisions at the lowest grassroots level, they could be innovative and exciting, find new solutions, they are versatile, and they also have money allocated to do so. Then it doesn't matter how far this parish centre is, whether the whole parish is the size of today's county and the centre is somewhere in the middle, or whether it is no matter how big, but the communities on the ground have decision-making powers. They decide the first, most important things that should be decided there. I very much liked Mr Gräzin's speech, in one very important aspect. Indeed, if the reform is to be implemented, it must be done boldly, excitingly and with a change of foundation, then this reform will also be of some use. This thrill, which may have been called out at first, has completely disappeared today. The reform, which could have come from a diverse country that takes account of cultural characteristics, promotes different thinking and brings fame to Estonia in search of exciting innovative solutions, landed in the pit where we still land. Maybe we don't really have a reform, and we're in a situation, let's just say what the Free Party has fought against a lot. We are in a situation where simply one reform improves the positions of the central authority and increases the possibility of 'leading' from somewhere in the back room of Tallinn. As a result, I have entered the second phase of bipolarity, the phase of relative depression, and that is very unfortunate. This bipolarity is also seen today in this hall... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U507	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U508	Ladies and gentlemen, So that there is no post-say: the following are not the responsibility of the party, the political group or the coalition. Instead, three members of the opposition brought this matter to the vote in this Chamber. Thank you. This is a story that once began to be told by our late colleague, one of our biggest geographers, Hardo Aasmäe, but I am the only one responsible for this right now. So, I'll tell you about the administrative reform of Nokia or the iPod. See amendment No 9 in the table on page 11. It provides for the possibility of establishing a local authority, which is located simultaneously in several countries of the European Union, i.e. in the territory of two neighbouring countries. Let's talk about Valga and Valgamaa. We agree that this is a truly distant and dying periphery. In fact, nothing has flourished there since World War I, for the city and the land around it were cut in half by order of the British colonel. The ties that had developed over the centuries, which we see today, were broken. The Estonian Valga is a dead end, there is nothing behind it but a state border. The most powerful railway station in Estonia stands for forces, and even the nearest attraction centre Riga is not connected properly, and it will not come. Rail Baltic is transported by a ghost knows where, past Central Estonia, but Tartu road is known to end in Mäo, if you look from Tallinn. I will not describe the situation in the novads of Valka and Valkas in Latvia, but it is not better. It is worse in this sense with the Latvian side that Estonian Chancellor of Justice Anton Palmdre had a piece cut into Latvia that only took the town's slum, and the last administrative reform in Latvia took most of the county there. Vents Armands Krauklis, a former member of the Latvian Seim, has written a very beautiful song called "Vilciens Riga" by the Mayor of Valka, the folk-rock band of Latvia. That's where the mood sounds, you can hear from YouTube. The Great Valgamaa, which could be created by combining the county of Valga with the county of Valka in Latvia, would not be Estonia or Latvia. The picture would change significantly, the city would become whole, a common plan and development plan would work, public transport would return to normal, the school network would be cleaned up, the situation of kindergartens would be improved. By the way, many parents want children to have three languages out of their mouths, like a hundred years ago: Latvian, Estonian and Russian. During the Tsar era, the tailor, sibi, and transporter also spoke German, an educated riverman, such as an excise official, and also Latin with an accent. Now the whole of Infra and, in particular, its development, to harmonise the functioning of medical services, see today's article on Valga and Valka in Postimees, will open up investment perspectives, European Union funding. After all, this is a novelty for Europe as a whole. There would also be a smoother relationship between the municipalities. Since most of the logistics below Elva is already moving towards Riga, why should companies still register with Riga if there were one and a Valga in common right here? Siim Valmar Kiisler would provide you with N's number of examples of serious problems caused by the artificial separation of Valga County. The dormant soul of a riverman will also awaken to life, seeing that he no longer lives by the wall, but in the capital of a municipality that deserves the attention of the European Union. Nobody's done this kind of government yet, but the idea is possible. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance found that the creation of such a supranational government is legally not right. Despite all my respect, I have to say that the Ministry of Finance is wrong. His brief and narrow objection, three and a half arguments, does not take into account that Estonia is a member of the European Union, by the way, is a member of the European Union, and Estonia also has the right, believe or not to believe in the European Union. The creation of a cross-border self-government has nothing to do with the political boundaries of the countries, even if it is of any importance outside the Schengen area. The comic thing is that the Estonian Ministry of Finance is concerned not about Estonia, but about the territory of Latvia. The leaders of the novads of Valkas in Latvia are not concerned about this at all. But okay. The objections of the Ministry of Finance deserve full respect, but that is all. Last but not least, the idea of a supranational self-government within the European Union would attract attention within the Union. But it's just an idea. Or as Ilves says in the New Field movie, one thought, just a thought. This law supplement doesn't take anything away, it doesn't oblige anyone to do anything. If the people of Valgamaa on both sides of the border don't want a compound government in old Livonia, it won't come. This addition doesn't regulate anything, like the gloomy people from the ministry are threatening. It'll only open the door to the right tomorrow. Tallinn would also have fewer concerns because it would be possible to get rid of this peripheral problem and, bye-bye, to start digging towards Helsinki like Count Monte Cristo. You can imagine how a new impetus will come to the Walmarts. I'm not talking about reopening the Borderock festival. I beg you, don't be afraid of the pouting faces of the Ministry! Do not be afraid of our own Commission's negative decision. In fact, there are good people here and there, they're just used to thinking the old way. As a lawyer, this supplement to the law doesn't speak or hear. This complement to the law smiles on the waterfronts on both sides of the border. It smiles at Europe and Estonia, all of us. Smile and say, "Oh, my God, it's actually a beautiful and awesome European thing." Please vote in favour of this amendment, vote with your heart. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U509	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U510	Honourable President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu here in the hall, in the rooms, in the gym, in the rooms of the political groups and everywhere else! My colleague Igor Gräzin said in a TV show in response to the question of the host, whether the administrative reform is coming, about him with a very serious and a little even sad face: 'Yes, it is. ' The Reform Party will not be able to retreat. The Reform Party, which has been mocked for years for not responding to its own name and never having the courage to make any reform, must now simply do this reform. This is a matter of life for the Reform Party, admitted by a senior party. It doesn't matter at all how good or bad this reform is. The important thing is that it will be done. Other government departments have gone along with this superficial approach. As usual, as Little Peter, they let the Great Peter eat his bag of ammo. Mr Külliki's Hatter has already reminded me that the start of the reform was promising. By autumn last year, all the criteria that the new municipalities would meet were to be met. The result is known: one criterion and this half of the population. As we have heard today from my colleague, Mr Kiisler, there is no need for any other criteria in the coalition's mind that if no other agreement could be reached, then there is no need. Grapes are sour again. The draft law on administrative reform currently under discussion and the so-called two-chair bill of the members of the Riigikogu, which we had to discuss yesterday, are, in fact, very closely linked. The aim is one: to increase the influence of large political parties in places and to exclude local electoral alliances and local independent activists from exercising local power. Jaanus Männik, a parish elder and former member of the Riigikogu, has written us a letter about this with heartache. He said there that the desire of a power monopoly, if not to say a morbid desire for power, has always been the one that causes members of the Riigikogu and political parties to want to sit in parliament, local councils, councils of state companies, sports associations and other places at the same time as the same people. The cities and municipalities are not currently equal partners to the central authority; they do not do so with the current draft. The biggest winners are the large counties and we are getting even more partyed division of power across Estonia than we are currently doing. I have recently noticed that the cynical communication style of the government is getting worse. They invite you to think nicely, make suggestions, then throw these proposals away immediately. The entire draft law on administrative reform, which we are discussing, bears the attitude of an all-knowing and enlightened monarch: we here know what is good for our people, and let us not pay attention to the protest coming from below. Just as the opposition's proposals do not have to be taken into consideration. While a few amendments were sympathetic to the coalition, they were such as to point to the obvious stupidities in the draft, for which the drafters themselves had become embarrassed. Let me give you an example. Tell me, dear friends, if there is anything wrong with this sentence: 'The aim of the administrative reform is to guarantee local authorities the right to self-determination, to increase their capacity and to better highlight the interests and needs of local people in the organisation of local affairs. ' Of course, there is nothing wrong with that sentence. It was one of the proposals of the Free Party, but it's not good enough for the coalition, because there's a pair of words in it called 'the self-deciding power of their governments', which the coalition fears like an old devil's lightning. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U511	Thank you. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U512	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U513	But we imagine that there are only 68 municipalities left with a minimum population of 5,000 and an indicative number of 11000. Then no electoral union has any hope in its current form, but the next elections will be the main battle zone between the six parties that are in this Chamber. The same current reform also supports the planned legislative amendment on the other side, which provides that a member of the Riigikogu can be a member of the local council. The main concern of political parties, as we know, is a short bench. How many well-known names can we put out in local elections to take as many 'common citizens' voices as possible and secure our power in councils? However, as has been convincingly said, conservatives are not pragmatists or cynics on this issue. We are more willing to harm 'party interests' and leave power as much as possible to local regions and people. I will specifically point out another problem relating to this reform. In the debate on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I also tried again to get a response from Mr Kiisler, but that did not come. In fact, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, officials from the Ministry of Finance were responding, defending the idea of this reform. We asked what we were doing with municipalities who did not want to join, who felt that their public services were good enough and their budgetary capacity was sustainable, but where the population was below the required threshold. Are we going to force them to join the neighborhood? Does the Ministry know better what's best for them? The completely cynical answer of the minister's representative was that, yes, of course, they should be shown a path that is good and noble. I don't think that's right. Local authorities must only join voluntarily. Yes, we can get those who are willing to implement the administrative reform by joining others, creating concessions and any privileges, but we cannot stop forcing the municipalities to do so. Yesterday morning, we had the honour of meeting Chancellor of Justice, Ülle Madis, who brought out very well - I respect that in municipalities where access to public services is deteriorating - it is, of course, a controversial issue, which is precisely public services, it is a question of definition - there is a violation of the Constitution. We need to think that if we make public services in a region less accessible, we will violate the Constitution. Therefore, let us be compatible with the Constitution in our choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U514	Thank you. Martin Helme, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U515	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U516	Five plus three is eight. So, ladies and gentlemen, administrative reform. Well, it's not the first, and hopefully it's not the last reform I've seen and seen in my life. In fact, during the consultative period, all sorts of fine reforms were carried out, they were still moved together, broken up and broken up. Once it happened to the collective farms: the big collective farms were small, then the small collective farms were big again. It didn't change anything. It was exactly the same with schools during the consultative period: once the small schools were large, then the big schools were small again. Maybe this break-up and break-up movement is some kind of process imitation or substitution activity. But it's a well-known principle that if the boss is handed over to an institution that he doesn't know anything about, he'll start moving furniture and then the good officials will carry these tables here and there and there and there and it'll look like there's some sort of action going on. We have such a thing done today. The health reform was done, but nobody knew what the hell was gonna happen. What happened was that health services are no longer available, doctors are running away, and nurses are also running away. The patient will see where he can get help, go to the pendulum brother or card maid. There's nothing good about it. Now we have social reform and work capacity reform. What happens to all this, no one knows. I do not want to believe well that ministerial officials in government administration are humane, criminal and malicious. I guess they're mimicking some kind of action to earn their pay in a nice, nice way. I've also worked in the ministry and seen good boys-girls, many of them even with a master's degree, but most of them with a beak hat and a backpack draw great PowerPoints, then a meeting is called, with 60 people and 60 PowerPoints, and then they show each other whose is like taller or more beautiful or quacking better. Again, the principle here is that when two wise men argue, it can be the ultimate wisdom, but when they argue with 60 fools, nothing wise will come of it. But why are such reforms simply for the sake of the reform itself? I hope not because the Reform Party has been leading the Estonian state for almost 20 years. The Reform Party is not a criminal organisation; they also have good intentions, except that with good intentions you have paved the way to a known place, as the medical team knows, where there is a multi-layered flat epithelium, which is very resistant to all kinds of movements and traumas. But I guess these reforms are being carried out. There are all kinds of pointless activities, like sesamune Rail Baltic, right? They build a big railroad out of nowhere, but maybe they don't. It's an even more fun substitute, because it's not happening, it's an idea. There is nothing new about this either, such things have happened before. Even the famous Tallinn express tram, its history is also very interesting and instructive. It is useful to have the opportunity to learn from the past. You see, the idea of a speed train came before the 1980 Olympics. The chairman of the Executive Committee of the Tallinn Council of Nation ambassadors, the mayor in modern terms, had to build all kinds of Olympic objects. The money was, as always, missing, and then his wise councillors came up with a high-speed tram! Let's ask Moscow for 200,000 currency rubles for this high-speed train. You know, you have to ask more because you can't get that much anyway. In Moscow, applications were made for all kinds of Olympic objects, and fast tram almost pulled down, but still not pulled out. The money was released, the tram was later pulled off that list, but the money had been recovered. Now, like a ghost ship, sometimes this idea of Tallinn's high speed tram comes up again, but once it's done, it's not gonna be possible to cut the profile or allocate the money. So I believe it will be forever and ever, like the Flying Dutchman, which sometimes comes up, then disappears again. But in the world, you've never done any great things before. Pharaohs built pyramids. The ghost knows what it was for, but the screaming buildings are still there, everyone can look and wonder. For hundreds of years, tourists from future generations will have to admire one and another here in Estonia, for example, those fancy traffic junctions built under Jõhvi. Indeed, if you've never been there before, you can't get on or off. The GPS will tell you nothing else about this either, but to turn back as soon as possible. But there's just no way to turn it over. After hundreds of years, the ruins of these mammoth buildings have certainly remained intact, then they will be shown as the Colosseum and future generations wonder what Estonians needed such facilities for. It's probably thought that the object had some kind of cult purpose, probably some kind of deity worship, not knowing either Taavi from Clothing or Andrus Ansip or anyone. Of course, the riddle remains. But the real reason is probably that the human race has always been curious, always moved on, always tried one and the other, just as a little child occasionally pokes his finger into a wall contact to see what happens. Well, it's not gonna kill 220 volts, either, but it's not gonna make it any smarter, as experience shows. I guess reformers try to stick their fingers in a wall contact just like that to see what happens. It is not nice to experiment with a small Estonian country. Of course, it is easy to organise reforms here, because the country is really small. Let's do it, let's try, let's see if we can or can't. Well, if you can't, then you can't! So let's run in the other direction, because there's a similar contact in the opposite wall, so let's put our fingers in there. But there are the Estonian people back there, there are people who live in these same municipalities. Move this furniture in an empty room as much as you move, well, if there are no people sitting on the couch, it's no use. If you force two poor people into forced marriage, you won't be one rich man. So the ghost knows it's stupid or malicious. I hope not one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U517	Thank you. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U518	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U519	5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U520	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, Personally, I am in favour of merging small rural municipalities, because I also live in a small area with about 700 inhabitants, and I can see that this rural municipality does not live or die. Seven or eight sittings in the parish government, I don't even know exactly what's going on, and there's nothing going on. In the winter, the snow is pushed as God guides. Luckily, I have an SUV, and I've driven the tracks for myself and the neighbor, because it's not until the third or fourth day in the parish, so the interim days will fly or by helicopter out of the farm. In particular, it is a neighbor who does not have an SUV, but the big one is about a kilometer. This is a problem in a small area. From spring to summer, the road plank will not smooth the holes in spring. Why would such a municipality be required if it was unable to fulfil the real responsibilities of the municipality? Of course, I am not in favour of having a parish house in every village and trampling in it every day. To promote the current reform, the government has called out that better services are provided by an able municipality with enough people and skills. I'd agree if everything was well thought out. Unfortunately, however, we are in favour of suspending the current administrative reform. The current reform programme imposing the compulsory integration of the government is Potemkinlus, as one might say, a substitute action instead of real regional policy, which, instead of improving the life of Estonia, only strengthens the vertical power of cartel parties and amplifies the decline of life in the country. The important problems of financing local governments and fixing tasks are not solved by the administrative reform. Several poor people don't get rich by adding together. Savings on the pay of parish parents who have lost their place due to compulsory integration are negligible. The need for care, day-care, school education and social assistance are not reduced. The hidden objective of the current administrative reform seems to be to increase the politicisation of municipalities. The disappearance and replacement of local electoral alliances with party lists can be predicted in large connected municipalities. The planned reform is in stark contradiction with the principle of autonomous local life as enshrined in the Constitution. There must be a substantive administrative reform that brings life back to the country. This requires changing the financing model of local governments, giving them more money, freedom of action and power, and reducing increasing national bureaucracy. The use of Estonian municipalities is limited to a quarter of the public sector's budget. With this figure, Estonia is one of the last among the countries of the European Union. In the Nordic countries more than half of public money is spent on municipal budgets. Municipalities must also be given the opportunity to cooperate with each other, to set up joint ventures and to co-manage bodies. In cooperation with private operators, long-term public mentoring and investment programmes need to be launched in small towns and municipalities to create new jobs in the food industry, the wood industry, mechanical engineering and other manufacturing industries. To find the money needed for this purpose, it is worth considering issuing long-term government bonds. The possibility of life on earth must be restored. In our opinion, the mechanical integration of rural municipalities does not bring any benefit. The current borders of municipalities need to be substantially reviewed and new boundaries drawn according to where people actually live and move, and which regions have historical and cultural ties. Effective administrative reform must lead to the abolition of rural governments, which become unnecessary after the emergence of larger rural municipalities. The functions of the county administration can be divided between municipalities, local governments and public authorities. We note that in Latvia the administrative reform was implemented on the same basis as the government currently wants to do in Estonia. Despite the government's eloquences, power and services were alienated from humans. Municipalities' costs increased, financial capacity did not increase, rural areas continued to empty. Estonia must learn from the mistakes of the neighbouring country. The administrative reform of the current government must be halted. Only a reform that takes real life into account will bring entrepreneurship and life back to the country. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U521	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, seven colleagues in particular, plus the viewers on the TV screen in the political groups' rooms. I believe that, in the last few hours, this reform, its problem areas, its objectives and, above all, the points why this reform should not be implemented have been discussed. But let's talk more about it. The IRL with whom I have been communicating even agreed to this, but the Reform Party Group, as the main force, was opposed to changing the title of the draft. After all, this is not an administrative reform; it is an administrative-territorial reform, i.e. a purely border change. We are only talking about new municipalities that are artificially created by drawing new borders and redeploying old ones. In fact, we are essentially not solving any problem, whether it be exodus, peripheralisation, municipal funding or public services. Basically, it is about consolidating power in the context of local governments. Why has the Conservative People's Party always opposed this? We will not implement fundamental decisions in this way in the process of reform. We are not dealing with the substantive problems that have caused this reform, but we are dealing with extinguishing the fire. We will mitigate the consequences, but we must look to the future and avoid that, in ten years' time, we will have to deal with this reform again in this very Chamber. If we do not tackle emigration and the capacity of regions, then it is inevitable that the same problem will come to us again in time anyway. Perhaps regional policy must be taken up as a starting point. It has been an honour for one of the government departments to have held the regional minister's seat, but so far no one has substantially dealt with regional development, starting with regional tax policy. We cannot take Estonia as a whole according to one standard. Tallinn does not equal Võrumaa or Saaremaa Ida-Virumaa. These are so different regions with different problems and concerns, and they need to be approached in a completely different way. To begin with, a regional tax distinction must be established, starting with, for example, social tax or even income tax. How can we provide incentives for entrepreneurs to create jobs in rural areas? This reform does not deal with this in any way. Let's look at it politically. If there are only 68 out of 213 municipalities left because of the reform, it is clearly extremely convenient for all political parties, including Conservatives. We would all be very happy if we had the power and political control of all the local authorities, so that it is clear what we are going to do there and how we are going to organise life there according to our own authority. But we don't want it. We do not want to consolidate power for political parties and we do not want to consolidate power for conservatives. We want only local people to organise life in local areas on the basis of their own interests and goals. For example, electoral federations are now allowing this. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U522	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U523	... where some people speak euphorically of reform and others speak of such, say, a reasonable disheartening tone. I do not want to deepen this bipolarity in Estonian society; it is a great pity to look at it. I would also hate for coalition parties to get into a bipolar situation where they say today with a huge euphoria that, oh, we did the reform, and tomorrow they say again, oh, the bad guy, screwed up didn't work out the way we wanted. We say then that you see, unfortunately, as we predicted, the role of central power really increased, the power not decentralized, the governments that could be their own governments are not, but are managed from somewhere in the corridors of Tallinn's central power. That is why, once again, I am today in the second phase of the fall of bipolarism, i.e. I am lightly depressed and sad. This is all the opposite of what I hoped, when I came to politics, that something would suddenly happen, maybe really power in Estonia will be decentralized, and maybe there will be some kind of reform that will be exciting and exemplary for the whole world, and that will carry just as brilliant ideas as Igor Gräzin's proposal for the creation of a cruise. The Prussian is probably not expected, but the situation is the Prussian. It's too bad it's gone this way. It is a pity that I have to be in a position where I say maybe we can make this machine stand for a moment and think a little bit more about what the reform is, and think that maybe we can still put some substantial and exciting aspect here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U524	Thank you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U525	Mr President! Beloved representatives of the people who are bravely here, and of whom many more eyes will shine! This administrative reform, which we are discussing here today with substance, is not a 21st century reform for Estonia. There is no bright or bold point, except for the amendment tabled by Mr Gräzin. On the one hand, Estonia has declared that it is a large and ambitious IT state. But this administrative reform does not seem to be a major effort, not a single holistic idea. Even its purpose has been defined in a very low manner. Low and low: we're going to reorganize the municipalities so big, and that's all. The objective of a single administrative reform cannot be defined with a numerical objective. It's embarrassing. Why does this reform not have substance? That's the question I've been trying to answer. In my opinion, the biggest reason for this is that the Estonian state currently has no bigger vision at all. We have not been able to discuss at all what Estonia wants to leave to its future generations, what we value Estonia as, what we want to see Estonia in the world. After all, this is the prerequisite for a great deal of content if we know what Estonia should be like. On the contrary, when we talk about administrative reform, we are even ashamed of words such as Setumaa or Hiiumaa or Saaremaa, not to mention the Kreis, which, in cooperation with Valga and Valka, could be a sparkly idea that would look at Europe and the world. What's the reason we don't have a vision? We do not have the internal harmony and unity of interests in this country, the unity and uniformity that have always borne Estonia in great times: in 1905, 1917, 1918 and 1991. When people dared to take impossible steps and do these things. What else do we have? We also lack state wisdom. True state wisdom never lets itself be disturbed by small things, but has a vision. This great vision is being implemented with state wisdom. What else is missing? We have forgotten, as it were, that man is hidden far away in this administrative reform, the person who thinks and wants and who has the greatest power in himself. The free will of man, his ability and his desire to work and to take responsibility for himself are lost. We're seeing centralization here. It's going to be a higher decision on what anyone needs somewhere. A person, however, will never become active unless he is assured that he can assert himself and exercise himself. Whose words are those? Jaan Tõnisson's words from 1919. Every nation tries to create its own living standards, and every nation tries to raise it better in order to meet the life requirements that it has grown. There is neither such an attempt nor the content of this attempt in this administrative reform. We should comply with the content of this reform and only then come back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U526	Thank you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U527	Honourable manager! Colleagues! Right now it's exactly the time that if tomorrow were to be an exam, the school students would make a summary of what they have to answer tomorrow. What we're gonna say tomorrow, we don't know. When it comes to administrative reform, it's a nice thing, it's voluntary, so it's not done, because everyone can add-dissolve, but 2 plus 2 isn't always 4, it's sometimes 3, it's sometimes 2, it's sometimes 1. Around the school, around the cultural house and around the store goes to the countryside for life. It's clear that men at the store are talking about urban matters and women are talking about land and urban matters. School is the future. If the child cannot be put at school in his/her home country, the child must be taken away to boarding school and all other risks arising from it. In a parish house or a cultural house, people can come together and do business with each other, even on long, dark winter evenings, knit socks. These are things that lead to life, and these are things that make the village live and feel emotions. At present, administrative reform does not guarantee these things. This does not guarantee education, social welfare or cultural activity on the ground. These are all the disadvantages of this thing. You don't expect to put in the things that people need. A person, as it is no longer important, borders are important, Excel's table is important, pluses and minuses are important, how much money is saved. But if money is being saved, no one knows that, because no one has an analysis and a forward-looking perspective. They just don't exist. We are sold within the boundaries of the municipalities and are told that there are too many municipalities, that they need to be reduced by half, and that is it. But if we look back there, we'll see that it's basically political terror. It is not human-centred governance and human-centred leadership, it is political leadership, but we are not a political terrorist country. We are a democratic country, we are the central nation of our home, we are not migrants. I would ask you to consider this. Once again, repeating the point of my fellow Members: the procedure for this draft should be interrupted on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U528	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid is not in the hall at the moment. Let's keep going. Kersti Sarapuu, please! 5 + 3 minutes. No, Kersti Sarapuu has already been declared.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U529	Was it already?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U530	Yes! Please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U531	Mr President! Luckily, ladies and gentlemen, who are still here! Many of the local governments and my colleagues believe that although we have long needed administrative reform, no one needs a piecemeal reform today. It's just a waste of time and money. There is no mention of money or tasks in this bill. In short, there is no content. The merger takes place on the basis of the initiative to compensate the local government leaders, not on the basis of the opinion of the people. It saddens me that no one remembers the senior and qualified city and parish secretaries who have been the souls of the municipality in the wave of redundancy. A forum was held in the Riigikogu some time ago, 'Request of local governments - will this be successful? '. There Professor Sulev Mäeltseman said that this is not an administrative reform but an administrative territorial reform. That's it. We have talked about the reform of the state and we have dealt with the administrative reform as part of it, but the draft law is a purely mechanical merger of municipalities with a timetable. Reimaa-Kiisler's administrative reform plan focused on attraction centres, showed what the attraction centre should include: sports or cultural centres, hospitals, cinemas, kindergartens, schools, social centres, etc. This would certainly have led to the emergence of one municipality within the county borders. Today's reform, however, lacks any connection logic. Joins simply on the basis of cross-breeds, often on the basis of friends or partyhood. Spicy situations have also arisen. One example is from Põlva County, where five municipalities join, but they want to build their own centre in Põlva, which has not joined them. The centre of each municipality should be located on the territory of the newly formed municipality. In order not to buy from a pig in a bag, we made substantive proposals that would give content to the administrative reform and confidence to the local authorities. The Centre Party Group therefore tabled 52 amendments to the draft law. Among other things, we considered the provisions relating to the increase of the local governments' income base, the increase in the rate of income tax and the increase in the funding of roads and the levelling-out fund, which would give confidence to the acceding municipalities. Unfortunately, these proposals were voted down in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Yes, ten of our proposals were accepted. These concerned the maintenance of urban status, where restrictions are intended to be lifted completely, the abolition of the concept of the core city was also supported, as well as nipple-tips. The Commission repeatedly raised an issue, which was also reflected in our amendments, so that the referendum should be made binding on the Council. Recently, the people of Saue protested against the council's decision on television. It should not be a bad habit to ask for the opinion of the people, but it is up to the council members, who have been elected to represent the local people, but they may have different motives for decision-making. The question arises as to why even ask the opinion of the people. The rhetoric of the administrative reform has become that small municipalities should act like stupid people. I very much enjoyed Liina Miksi, the elder of Piirissaare parish, considering that salary is not the main motivation, but the work itself is interesting and close to the heart. He drives a cab on that island and does all the stuff himself. Not every municipality has to develop all the services. Some have a higher proportion of younger people and services are intended specifically for them, while others have more older people and need a different approach. However, by creating large municipalities, do we not take the service beyond the person on the outskirts of the country and make it more expensive to receive the service? Although the legislation on the revenue base is allowed to be put on the table in the autumn, the country's budgetary strategy shows that by 2020 road funding (EUR 29 million) and educational expenditure allocations will be of the same magnitude. The only happy flash is EUR 15 million added to the Equalisation Fund in 2019 and EUR 25 million in 2020. This, however, is just a plan that does not restore the pre-crisis size of the compensatory fund's resources. With emerging state secondary schools, however, we hand over liabilities to the state, while the local government's own income base decreases, making it much more difficult for local governments to borrow, including their financial capacity becoming weaker. Nor can we overlook the fact that we see inequality here compared to municipal secondary schools. Teachers' pay is higher in state upper secondary schools, free school meals are guaranteed for everyone, additional specialties are financed, etc. Life in rural areas is based on the development of entrepreneurship. Are we influencing the development of entrepreneurship in this law? Are we becoming more attractive to banks? Already, most investments outside Tallinn and the so-called gold ring for banks located in Estonia are contraindicated as unattractive and unprofitable. Nor does it make this easier for our business support national institutions PRIA and the LEADER programme. After all, in all of them, the provision of both grants and loans is limited to a population that often does not exceed 2,000 and 4,000 people. What if our local governments have more than 5,000 inhabitants in the future? Small and medium-sized enterprises find it difficult to find financing to start new projects. There is no such talk about the fact that the owner of the company often operates 24 hours a day without the necessary rest days and other legal benefits. With this attitude, we will soon arrive where these same entrepreneurs will become Finnish bus drivers. Opportunities must be found for rural businesses to develop and contribute to the development of local life rather than become dairy cows with special labelling, as in the title of Inga Raitar. It can be said that most people do not have a job in urban or rural municipalities, but to have a good place to live in municipalities, security, waste management, welfare, social services, kindergarten, training, recreational groups and sports opportunities must be taken care of. In this context, the Centre Party Group proposes to suspend the second reading of the draft law on administrative reform 200. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U532	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U533	Thank you to the President for the kindness of finally allowing me here. After all, the slaughter of local governments has been taking place for many years. After all, the individual reform parties who have remained in the hall know very well why it has been done. It has not been a savings policy or austerity policy or a solidarity policy that we also take from local governments. Rather than being able to save somewhere, it is always, every year, either EUR 15 or EUR 20 million taken first from Little Peeter's pocket. The consequence is that local governments are so weak that today they are slapping a trip out of joy: then do this administrative reform, then at least something has been done, we get an annual salary and we get some allowance for a year-to-two, and we are happy with it. But at the time when the municipalities were stronger, they demanded a more regional dimension, they demanded substantive regional policy. There were investment components, county governments were stronger, their voice paid. There was a time when the elders attended government meetings. But every year, the regional level has been beaten away. Indeed, we are much like the Russian Federation in Estonia, because we are very centralized power. Now they want to centralise this power further. The talk about the Nordic countries, which some Reform Party people like to talk about in the shadow of eloquences and anniversary speeches, is not true. Actually, we're moving away from the Nordic countries. This has also been said year after year, that tax revenue at central and local government levels should rather be equalised, the redistribution mechanism should be equalized, but rather these scissors have increased, the central government has strengthened and local power has weakened. Who's the good guy? Certainly not for people who have lived in Võrumaa, Valgamaa, Lääne-Virumaa, Läänemaa or Saaremaa. But it's certainly been useful to the house of Stenbock. Secondly, the Reform Party is trying to establish itself. He shows that once it was the People's Union, once the Fatherland and Res Publica Union did it, they tried it, but their hands were weak and their minds were dim, but you see, now we reform parties have come and tell the people that we are doing the administrative reform, raising the flags high and doing it. After that, we can formally record in the work report that we did something. Let's see what was done then. The great joy is that there are fewer parish elders, the great joy is that there are fewer council leaders, the great joy is that it will also be easier to choose the president in the future, the great joy is that there are actually much less balancers of power, that is, there are much less of those who are interfering, and it is much easier to push through their reforms, whether on health, public transport or social welfare. It's all so much easier. The country is even more in someone's pocket. So in that sense, when we're talking about the substance of the matter, yes... A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U534	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U535	We're saying joining will help. Let's see what's going on. For example, Valu, Risti and Taebla have joined one of the great municipalities in Läänemaa, where the municipality of Lääne-Nigula has emerged. You can really compliment Andres Kampmann, Chairman of the Western Nigula Vallavolikogu, and Mikk Lõhmus, the mayor of the parish, who has managed to do positive things through this accession without any substantial regional policy. Is it a village movement, greater investment capacity or better social services and a more diverse social welfare portfolio? But in Hiiumaa, for example, this has failed. These are two examples. We cannot make administrative reform at the mercy of chance, that perhaps there are constructive leaders somewhere. But if not, who will be responsible? That is why, when the state is reforming its administration and redeploying borders, a substantive regional policy would be needed, showing how people's wages are rising, creating more jobs and improving health services. People need to know whether the family doctor is going to make more house calls in the country than he has done so far and whether the pharmacy service is moving away from people or not. From the sounding concepts, we should go to the human language, show which services will improve people, how the economy will grow, how many more jobs will be created and how Estonia will get out of this labour poverty. But on this subject, the current government is not really able to hold a debate. They say you'll pass this framework law, so they'll probably come here in the fall with their 18 base laws, and they'll probably do something, and they'll probably give you money. It's air control, and there's no cover. Both the union of cities and the union of rural governments have been dragging the central government out of power for long, long years. In the last ten years, there have been no victories on substantive points. At the moment, it is just such a great desire to get this political reputation, that you see, we move, we imitate work. They just want to make it look like a hardworking person and get the title of a hardworking person, so you see, we're gonna do something. But as peripheralisation increases, exodus from the rural area increases, and people are trapped in underemployment, who is responsible for it? There's one thing I don't understand. For 18 years, this administrative reform has been prepared, and they are still coming to this big hall with this piece of work, but the basic laws are still not ready. Can't come with these 18 laws that are allowed to do. For 18 years, the Reform Party, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Social Democrats have prepared administrative reform and no steps have been taken to prepare for the reform of the state. We see state companies with 8 000, 7 000 and 6 000 euros in wages. For example, the head of the Estonian Loto receives more than 5000 euros' salary. Is this any kind of solidarity with a police officer, nurse or social welfare worker? Is that fair? Does it come from a sense of justice? The administrative reform is only intended to obtain a political tick and to imitate work, but the negative effects, as always, will not be the responsibility of anyone later on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U536	Thank you. Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U537	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, During the discussions on this draft law on administrative reform, we hear a consistent and constant discussion of how life will improve, how services will improve and how the capacity of local authorities will increase. Rural areas, small municipalities and peripheral areas are most affected by this reform. The administrative reform we are dealing with today is, in fact, a reform of the destruction of the lives of small municipalities and regions far from cities. When we think about the value that a viable rural area gives our people, I expect, or I am quite certain, that they will be willing to make more effort and make decisions that will preserve life on earth and support those who have chosen life on the margins, for example, and who are not attracted by the attraction center. The attraction of these attraction centers is also very relative, because for some reason it is still the case that during Christmas and holiday, in fact throughout our short summer, most people are attracted not to this 'pull centre', but to a peripheral area, to a rural area that is not viable, which is not sustainable enough and where life is not effective. There are still quite a few words that we use here. If we actually knew what this value was, we would not be faced with such a partial and technical draft, but with a substantive reform that would actually help to balance this attraction centre and pull and twitch. There are fairs and festivals in rural areas, where for some reason the people are rushing for days. Local people are present at these events with their status, culture and traditional products such as sightseeing, a "death society" that is pleasant and pleasant entertainment for all, but nothing is done to maintain their way of life. It's not effective, it's unsustainable, it's too expensive. In time, we will actually pay for all these wrong decisions. The destruction of the rural area, the extinction of peripheral areas, and attraction centres, core cities and knows the central support policy of which is short-sighted and simple choice of way. Every day we've been delayed, the month and the year will be our revenge. When Siim Valmar Kiisler made a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I was amazed to hear him describe his visit to the local government. You know, ideally, a person shouldn't be living in a rural municipality building. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U538	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U539	We are talking today about the fact that it does not matter how far this parish house is, because the services provided there are not so important. Maybe so. They don't matter if we manage our own lives, we feel good in the municipality, our children are safe to go to school and the roads are fine. It's like there's no business at the municipal centre. But do you know when we will realize that we actually need a government every day? We understand this when there is no longer a municipal house or a social worker who knows every family who can't take care of themselves, a family who can't take care of their children or who can't take care of housing. Then we miss the municipality because this family's concern comes to our yard, but there is no longer the parish house that these people turned to very often in the past. But we don't know it, we don't feel it, we don't need this parish house, let it be a little further out there. But by the time the parish house is moved further, it will be a needy person on our yard, and our child's safety on the school bus may not be so guaranteed or self-evident. The waitress said they go to the parish house to grunt. The parish house is the place where safe and peaceful living is ensured in the countryside. It is therefore essential that it be close to everyone who actually goes there. There is a saying in Estonia that every village must feed its own cripples. This is the reform that actually leaves these cripples to every village, because village life is the initiative of every person. If we live in a city, we may not interfere and not create this life around us, but we cannot do that if we live in a country. Living on Earth, every day you have to create life around you. You can't pull into a cave for like half a year or a year, and life around you still goes on. Cafés open, shops open, cultural events take place, so you're in a bad mood and you don't want to participate. You can't do that when you're on Earth, because then nothing's gonna happen. In doing this reform, it seems to me, we do not really know how people live in Estonia. But we have a lot of people who know that and who are willing to talk about it. I know, too, I'm a boogeyman, I live in this environment every day, and I can talk about it. I very much hope that people will be prepared to think about the need for this reform, and people will not have to ask me every time we meet: why are you doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U540	Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U541	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U542	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't been able to speak today. This draft has been carefully addressed both in the round of questions and answers and in the round of speeches. However, some important points need to be repeated. As the members of our party have repeatedly mentioned, our party does not dispute this understanding or the principle that there really is a need for local governments and administrative territorial reform in Estonia. That's what we all get. The problem is that the draft presented before us will not solve any problems that this reform could solve and that are burning up in our society outside Tallinn. It amazes me that the initiators and developers of the draft law accept certain social developments as unmistakable, which we, as legislators or politicians or organisers of state power, seem impossible to do. In other words, certain trends are seen in Estonia as static, not dynamic, and they try to adapt to them, not to change them in any way. I am, of course, talking first of all about something like peripheralisation. In Estonia, there has been a decline and thinning of Estonia's population and the concentration of residents in larger cities. It is a trend that undermines the balanced development of the Estonian state, the demographic development of Estonia, economic development, entrepreneurship and security. I will give a simple example of what we are always arguing about with the Minister of the Interior, Pevkur, or where we disagree. If we have border areas that are empty and there is no border guard, then there is no one who notices that one, two, three or twelve very strange people have come across the border, who have no right to come to or stay in Estonia. There is a clear security problem when we have manless border areas. In economic terms, however, it is not possible for the economy to flourish in Estonia if we have two well-functioning centres for the whole country, like Tallinn and Tartu, and everything else is wasteland or a complete brush. Therefore, in my opinion, the aim of a sensible, substantive and bold administrative reform should not just be to halt peripheralisation, but to reverse peripheralisation, i.e. to create conditions and opportunities for people to live on land and in smaller places. There should be schools, kindergartens, jobs and the same conditions that we enjoy in this town so that we can get out of our house, get in the car and drive to the next point without the need for heavy machinery to push the road open. None of the aspects of this problem is covered by this bill. When the previous speaker said that cards are being redrawn, this redrawing of cards is not very talented; in fact, there is simply an deletion of borders, because this possibility is also not being used to change the current illogical boundaries in any way or, let's say, to split up the inoperable municipalities and make them work better. It's just that the boundaries are being erased. We have drawn up an alternative plan for administrative reform with our suggestions for improvement and with our statements, which will pay attention to these problems and, if implemented, at least in our opinion, there is a real chance that the trend of peripheralisation and the extinction of life and economy in the country will stand or turn around. However, all this can still be done only if we first provide the local authorities with more budgetary resources. I absolutely disagree with the waitress here who said that Tallinn is drowning in money, so it is not possible to give more money to other municipalities. We must be able to make models for financing regional development, according to which funding would simply be done in such a way that the further away from Tallinn, the greater the coefficient, and the thinner the population, the greater the coefficient. There may not be more money to come to Tallinn, but it is still possible to give more money to remote, smaller and sparsely populated places. This bill does not do this, there will be no more money. It doesn't even touch the fact that it's absolutely screaming that competences need to be reviewed. We know that municipalities have a whole range of tasks that they do not have to perform according to the law, but actually do. Since the law does not provide them with this mandatory letter, tax money will, of course, not be given for this. Let's just take the draft law on funeral allowance on today's agenda. Some local governments that have this capacity give money for it, but they don't get any money from the state budget. There is also nothing to be done about the functions of rural governments. In our opinion, rural governments could then be abolished and municipal associations would be replaced, which would receive a public function, i.e. part of the functions of rural governments would go to local governments and some to municipalities themselves, and some to state institutions or central authorities. This would guarantee the local government both the local dimension and the substance of the municipality. None of this is done or offered with this bill. The whole thing behind the chest that we have seen here, both in the case of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Public Administration, is terribly hollow. Of course, we cannot fail to mention what has already been mentioned repeatedly here, namely the political dimension of this matter, or the construction of a vertical power. The number of municipalities will be reduced to allow for a clear control and oversight of central power and political supremacy, through which at least the next presidential elections will be achieved by ensuring that political parties' backrooms are able to agree or decide quite firmly on who will be the next president. It's all these things. It should also be mentioned here that this reform is going to cost an awful lot of money, we are talking about EUR 80 million. So we're gonna get a bad thing forever for a terrible price. There's gotta be a fight against that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U543	The school is new and beautiful as a spectacle stone, it's almost ready for kindergarten and so on. Or we could take the 8,000 inhabitants of Ülenurme, the Viimsi of Tartumaa. They can do great too, but they fear what will happen if the poorest parishes in the neighborhood are joined. I'm not even gonna talk to 1,600 people in Rakke County who can take care of themselves. Let's imagine what's gonna happen. When the parishes join, the voice of the periphery will remain very quiet. When five municipalities of 1,000 people join, we think that there have been seven Commissioners in every area so far, but the new council has not 35 but 17 members, so there will be half. It is already known that of the 3,000 council members, 1,000 will be left behind after the reform. I am not going to talk about us, members of the Riigikogu, who are also trying to reduce the number of Commissioners. But now the most important thing. Last week I was with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in Lithuania. We met there with colleagues from Lithuania and Latvia and talked about administrative reform. What did they say? Point 1, the reform of violence will end badly. Point 2 is not wise to reform until the functions and funds of the merged municipalities are precisely established. These are the same things that the association of rural governments and cities has suggested. I will conclude with the words of the Chancellor of Justice that what the current government has come up with may not at all comply with Estonia's current constitution. '... it is not possible to make a final assessment at the moment,' said Madise, 'because the reform is only closely linked to the draft implementing law that will be drawn up in the future. [---]... substantive changes to the administrative reform will become apparent in the draft implementing law which is still in progress. If it is not adopted at the time of the entry into force of the Administrative Reform Act, then not all the circumstances that could reasonably affect the accession decision are known at the stage of the voluntary negotiation of local government units. ' And that's it. We only have the law, the law of 5,000 people, but there is no law of implementation. So, Taavi in Cloth and his team are offering us a piggy in a bag. The Centre Party and I personally disagree. This makes Estonia's life much worse, although it could be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U544	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Rõivas stressed some time ago by submitting his political statement to the Riigikogu on the subject of administrative reform that this is a coalition reform programme. Indeed, but this is one of its greatest shortcomings. The public, not to mention opposition parties, are not involved in the preparation of this reform. There was no substantive dialogue. Three political parties in the Riigikogu have been excluded from the development of administrative reform, just like the drafting of the state budget. There is no doubt that administrative reform would be much better and more substantial if it were implemented democratically, involving all parties and considering different aspects. Only ten days to propose amendments and additions to the law that the government has prepared for a year is anything but reasonable, like rejecting the lion's share of the opposition's amendments in the Commission. The reform agenda shows that the government lacks an understanding of the situation of local governments and a vision of how to proceed. The aim is to force local governments to join, or change borders, and this is called an administrative reform. It is a naive and simplified approach that leaves no answer to any substantive questions about how to solve local governments' problems, increase their effectiveness, specify functions and tasks, ensure adequate funding, etc. I am not going to talk about the fact that coercion itself is clearly an unconstitutional step. There is no doubt that the system needs to be changed. The question is how to ensure that the changes are constructive and effective, not merely to make changes for their own sake. The Authority has proudly highlighted the figures for the municipalities in which the accession negotiations are held. These figures are empty because the lion's share of the negotiations is due to the fear of coercion, not because accession would be beneficial or would lead to better services, greater financial capacity and other benefits. Moreover, the accession agreement is no longer mandatory for the new parish council, and today's beautiful promises can only turn out to be fire. Two poor people don't make one rich. The fact that the results of the accession referendum are only indicative to the municipality creates a serious breach of the Constitution. After all, the Constitution states that the highest authority in the country is the people who exercise their power by voting. Why even hold votes if the results could be passed over by a roller, as happened in Saue, where three-quarters of the people who voted opposed the merger? Is this democracy? The Prime Minister loves to talk about the Nordics. If we look at them, we will see that there is significantly higher funding for local governments. In the course of the Finnish administrative reform, the borders of the municipalities were also changed, but the merging municipalities were given much higher merger support and long-term revenue mechanisms were set up, which also made the merger useful in the long term. Nothing like this is happening in Estonia. Although the support was increased to nearly EUR 80 million, it will only continue for the accession process, no more. The purchase of local government leaders by means of this same money, paying them an annual salary-sized accession bonus, does not in any way improve the well-being of the Estonian people. This is government-run state corruption and bribery. In Latvia, the administrative reform was carried out on the same basis as in Estonia. We can see the same consequences here soon. Despite government promises, power and services went away from people, municipal expenditure increased, financial capacity did not increase, peripheralisation and rural emptying continued, the number of jobs decreased, schools and libraries closed. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U545	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U546	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday and today, these problems have been dealt with very thoroughly. I would also like to make a few brief points for my part. First of all, I would like to emphasise once again that the government coalition is currently engaged in high-level state-level corruption when taxpayers' money is paid for the annual salaries assigned to the local government leaders. Let me give you a little example. Recently, officials of the Ministry of Finance in Võru organised a seminar for local government characters. When there were several hours of so-and-so-so-so-so, how to put the parishes together or not, I asked the self-governing people to tell them which button I should press in the Riigikogu. Do you know what I got in response? I didn't get an answer because none of the local government people dared to open their mouths. Some were probably afraid he might lose his annual salary if he started talking. Finally, a modest exclamation came from the back corner that I should go out during the vote. I, of course, said that I was not the type of person who hides his head in the sand, and I am not going out, but I am going to decide whether or not administrative reform is necessary in this form. But most local government characters, I can confirm, put the annual salary in their pockets, and I'm not worried about what happens to people in this remote corner and how their lives go on. I'm sure of that. Second thought. There's been a lot of talk about two chairs. I say this from a practical point of view, I have been a member of the local council, Deputy Chairman of the council, Chairman of the council, now I have more than a year of practice in the work of the Riigikogu, that I cannot imagine how I can sit in two chairs and belong to both the local council and the Riigikogu if the distance is 300 kilometres. On this point, as the proverb says, the dog of two farms is always hungry. If I were to be a member of both collections, there would be nothing left to do, it would not be done in the Riigikogu or the local council. However, if someone is such a superhuman, why not, it is always possible to participate in the work of the local council, the council would be pleased. It does not necessarily have to take part in it with a decisive vote, but it can also simply take part and advise the council on what it is about! We will deal very much with our voters in our places, we will meet them and we will discuss local problems as well. So it's perfectly possible. Thirdly, I would like to make another reply of this kind. Gräzin is a very hard talker and author of good ideas, but making it over the state border could hold back a bit. We can fix things at home first, then we can think about these problems in the future. But I was very impressed when, as a member of the parliamentary group, I took part in a meeting with members of the Latvian Parliament in Valgas. What surprised me most was that there is very close cooperation with Valka in Latvia. It's amazing what they're all doing out there. Estonian children attend the Latvian Art School and Latvian children attend the Estonian Music School etc. I asked the mayor what problems and difficulties they had. He said that the biggest difficulty is that there are different tax systems, which raise various problems. In this context, we could put everything together. But they work very well together, for example in transport and education, as I have already said.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U547	Good colleague, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U548	No, I don't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U549	Good President and few colleagues. Sots Jaak Allik has said in clear Estonian that the pig will not eat it either, about the draft we are discussing here today. I totally agree with him. A pig doesn't really eat it, but people, above all, rural people, have to eat it. The longtime Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has said in clear Estonian from this same chair: 'I personally am not convinced that Estonia needs administrative territorial reform. We have no reason to be ashamed of our local governments. From the territory, the local governments of Estonia are among the largest in the European Union, and we are quite average in their population. " That's what Andrus Ansip of this very chair has said. He has also said that a service-oriented approach is wrong, a local democracy is more important. The services can be provided by the state, the local government, the private sector, but it is not the primary aspect of local democracy, it is said by Andrus Ansip. But what will we see today, May 2016? In the view of the Prime Minister of Broiler, only a single sacred number in a local government must, according to the government, have at least 5,000 souls and the main thing is services. Allik said the pig from the reform didn't eat it either, but I said people had to eat it. In fact, Prime Minister Rõivas and his Minister of Public Administration are coming to rape the parish. Young men's business, this rape. Rape begins in the new year, just before the anniversary of the Republic. They say that life's cogs are driven by fear of death and sexual drive. In the case of administrative reform, the other one is out of them, but fear is tough. Each parish is now looking around with open eyes to put the bread from its neighbors in the closet. Of course, they prefer the nicer ones. Those who don't have a lot of debt on their backs and who can handle themselves more or less. The government lures the single-man with two carrots. Those parish elders who become free from office in the new great area can put their feet on the wall for a whole year because they receive an annual salary. However, the merged parish awaits the accession prize. In total, the government spends 65 million euros on buying out rural municipalities and rural municipalities, 2 million euros on rural municipalities and 63 million euros on one-off prizes for rural municipalities. But by the way, few people know that this bonus money is paid out not immediately, but in three years. A small part of it next year, but most of the money will have to be paid for another two years. Why are the parish leaders talking so actively to each other now? But because they're afraid that if they don't find their own partners in the neighborhood, then later they'll just put them together with someone, like some neighborhood Bomb hole that's borrowed itself and where life is already standing in the pond. Besides, they'd lose that fat cardboard. In Estonia, however, there are a number of municipalities that do not want to put bread in a closet with anyone. Some are, yes, the kind of "bombhole" that they don't even want to join, but others are municipalities that can handle themselves well, but that's why they don't want to join. All of them are below the minimum required, with less than 5,000 inhabitants. I can give you some examples from Tartu County. For example, Kambja municipality, which has 2600 inhabitants, can handle itself perfectly. By the way, the Minister of Public Administration has never set foot there, and he does not know what is happening there, of course. Or we can take Rõngu with 2800 inhabitants. Rõõgu can handle itself perfectly; they have long lost officials 15 and 16 months' wages and saved 100,000 euros. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U550	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U551	We talked about the principle that decisions concerning a person should be taken as close to him as possible and that a person should be able to participate in making them. The Reform Party remembered this once during the blue month when it wanted to protect the right of a few companies to pay low wages. It was said from this very point of view that we are not taking this seriously and that there were no arguments for subsidiarity in this draft at all. It is simply a confession and a revelation of the hypocrisy with which, unfortunately, too often laws are made in this Chamber, and the hypocrisy with which Estonia is now completely arbitrarily distributed. I think it's time to say that enough of this, no more hypocrisy, no more lying politics, no more arrogance. The administrative reform of Estonia must not be sharing Estonia with the ruler and Excel table without asking the people anything. Indeed, we need a review of our administrative system, but this must be done in substance. We need it in such a way that all people are involved, not so that we try to put money in some people's mouths and hope that everything is okay. No, we must sincerely involve people and sincerely make the municipalities stronger and more independent. Access to medical assistance, public transport, social assistance and education, development of regions, job creation and support for rural areas all these concerns need to be addressed. Our goal must be an Estonia where every child can, if he or she wants, go to school where he or she is born, so that every person can, if he or she wants to, work and carry out himself or herself in the same place where he or she was born. If he wants to explore the world, that's great! Then he must be able to go and see how things are going to happen elsewhere. Then it's just great, because then it's his free choice, not his coercion. The coerced exorcism caused by his own government, how horrible it must seem! What really needs to be done is simple. This has also been said by many colleagues here today: increasing the independence of local governments, their adequate funding, increasing their capacity and decision-making, real organisation of public administration, abolishing rural governments, because they are not currently working organically with the community, giving real functions to local governments. If local governments want to join, why not? But it must also mean a better revenue base; it must mean that services are available everywhere; it must mean a better life in reality. The current technocratic, meaningless and meaningless administrative reform will simply wipe out life on earth. Let's not do this, let's brake! Remember: Estonia, while your village still lives, you will also live! As long as there's still the last person alive who lives outside...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U552	Honourable speaker, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U553	While your people are still alive, we will stand up for them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U554	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U555	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U556	Mr President of the sitting! It's possible we're setting a kind of record today. I mean, how many members of the Riigikogu keep making speeches from this panel. I was not a member of several Riigikogus in the meantime, but until 2003, I think there was never such a long round of speeches in a row, maybe there hasn't been one. In any case, I find this part quite enjoyable. I am pretty sure that the second part of this night is pure obstruction, but the first half of this night, despite all its shortcomings or woes, is one that any Parliament could envy. I've sometimes wondered how the Latvians could handle it. Their standard method of obstruction is, in particular, the holding of long speeches from Parliament's speaking point, not the taking of breaks like ours. I was also theoretically of the opinion that speaking is still a more cultural and intelligent method of obstruction, but what happened tonight confirms my conviction. If there were ever an option in Estonia to replace the current rather unintelligent method of obstruction with a better one, today could be taken as an example. Now I'm talking about substance. I feel a personal guilt about what's going on today. The point is that the programme of Mart Laar's coalition government, which took office in the autumn of 1992, provided for the rapid implementation of such a reform. The idea at the time was that the administrative territorial distribution from the Soviet system, although village councils were renamed municipalities and districts into counties, was such a bad legacy that it had to be quickly replaced. It's a terrible shame they didn't do it back then. The feeling of guilt that the Estonian people are now going to have to work quite hard for the laziness of our own time is probably following me to my death. Now I am talking about the political consequences that have been discussed today with regard to this draft. It is quite clear that any reform and every draft also have a number of consequences that the draft writers cannot foresee, and because these writers are ministerial officials, they do not need to anticipate them. One of the consequences I want to draw attention to is that if the current plans are implemented and apparently they are realised, we will have the problem of whether Estonia can continue to live with the current electoral system. The problem is that, when the Local Government Council Election Act was adopted in 1993, it was stipulated as a single rule that there should be no more than 13 mandates in any constituency. Over the years, this figure was increased for various reasons until it reached 31, and then it was achieved, which is also confirmed by this draft, that if there are fewer than 50000 inhabitants in the municipality, there should not be more than one electoral district. In short, a political experiment with just as bad consequences, which has been going on in Tartu for years, but which has not had a major impact on the rest of Estonia. This will then be the standard of Estonian electoral policy. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U557	President-in-Office of the Council. All of you in this hall, and all of you who listen to us by screen or scratch! I want to start with perhaps not a topical issue. I want to start with the fact that the destruction of the first Republic of Estonia has been constantly accused of those politicians and of the political activities that led the Republic of Estonia to a silent era through a coup d'état in 1934. We are now discussing administrative reform, but what is in the context of this administrative reform is precisely an era of silence against the will of administrative reform, hate speech and many other people's majority. If the first Republic of Estonia was killed because of a supposedly silent era, then it is logical that the second Republic of Estonia could also be fatal if we reached a silent era. What makes me draw a parallel like that and think about it that way? But a very simple deductive method, as Sherlock Holmes would say. This deductive method says that if you put things together, it turns out that precisely in order to centralise power, build the vertical of power once and for all, the current administrative reform law and many other laws are being processed, planned and implemented. We can see how distressed the coalition is with the upcoming presidential elections. At all costs, the aim is to have the President elected in this Chamber. Why do you need it? Why can't it go to the electoral body? What is undemocratic about it? After all, our constitution has provided for this opportunity and its procedures. The reason why this is not wanted is very simple: there is no way that this process can be controlled and you do not know what unpleasantness might happen, what kind of person could land in Kadriorg, maybe someone who is not acceptable to the current coalition and the power ambitions of the current coalition, and you don't know what he's going to do. Perhaps he rejects the laws, does not declare the state budget, does not approve officials of power in the form of judges and other figures. You don't know what godless acts this uncontrolled president can do! That is why, at all costs, we must try to elect the President in this Chamber. However, in order to avoid such crap in the future, it is necessary to make the number of local governments as small as possible and now the second law, the so-called "two-chair law," comes into play, to ensure that, in as many local governments as possible, government politicians sit and direct processes, control people, mediate information up and down and ensure that local governments are controlled by power. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U558	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U559	It is undoubtedly the ulterior motive when we think about what plans are being drawn up. Of course, we cannot forget the economic interests of all of this: how can we obtain information on detailed plans, building permits and planned infrastructure objects, and how can we organise these procurements in such a way that the hand washes hands? All this is a weekday. You shouldn't think people don't think that way. Of course they do. And what is the result? The power, which always corrupts, corrupts the more absolute it becomes. What is its far-reaching perspective? The fact that the Republic of Estonia is becoming weaker, the faith of the people in this republic is becoming more and more volatile, people's lives in this republic are becoming more and more uncomfortable and poorer, and more and more people want to go from this country somewhere else, where they feel more comfortable, earn more, and where they do not need to be constantly concerned about their consciences, which tells them to be loyal to their homeland. Homeland has been left behind, home country's concerns are slowly forgotten, foreign adaptation is made, and Estonia becomes a geographical concept whose population gradually changes and becomes a second language. The end of this country may not be as dramatic as that of the first Republic of Estonia in 1939 and 1940. In other words, as immortal poet Thomas S.Eliot says: "Not a bang, not a blast, but a wave is the end of the world. " The end of the Republic of Estonia, too, may not be a bang or a blast, but may be a pathetic fibre. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U560	Thank you. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U561	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen of the fight! At night's hour, our mood has become sad, and my colleague Mart painted a very depressing picture before our eyes. I might want to make it a little more cheerful, because it's not that bad now, and to think a little bit about the paperwork we have on the table today, the title of which is administrative reform. Maybe there's a little bit of this thing called reform, but that's it. In itself, it's just a mathematical equation, plus an addition, which is like real addition, because mathematics, which I've learned in my time at school and then also taught others, tells you that 1 plus 1 is still a 2, but here's something that 1 plus 1 plus 1 plus 1 is 1. So this addition theme doesn't fit right here. But a chemist colleague tried to make all sorts of additions. Maybe the chemical reaction is going to be 1 plus 1, but it's going to be 3, because there's going to be some extra elements. Look at the additional elements that could arise in this reform as a result of this addition, really cannot be found here, as all the speakers in this Chamber have found today. As a result, the accounts are going to be a mess at this hour. I tried to read at first how many of these cancellations there were, but I don't dare say how many of them were there, just in case. So smart ideas and ideas have been pretty much there today, which actually doesn't happen very often. Nor does it often happen what these proposals provided for so that the reading of the draft could be interrupted. I'm sorry if that doesn't happen, because you could really analyze a little bit and think about what happens next. I also support what my colleague, Krista Aru, has said. He spoke of the fact that the Estonian state also has no vision for our topic today. The Estonian state has many, dozens of development plans, but how they should go together and how this development should take place in view of all of them, no one really knows. There is still so much of today's law that the good legislative practice that we have always talked about in this Chamber provides that the laws should include ministerial regulations or implementing acts that set out how things will proceed. It is these acts or basic laws that are missing from this law that we call them. But it is they who should help to achieve the objective of this law, which is better services. I want to express my opinion that there are two kinds of services. Some belong to the competence of the local government. There's a little doubt they'll heal. If we join the municipalities, for example, road kilometres will join, and if the amounts for road maintenance remain the same, then the situation will not improve. More money that gave me interesting thoughts and that I tried to get a little bit of clarity from the waitress. If right now we're dealing with the fact that we don't have enough... May I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U562	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U563	If you simply add the money that the municipalities had before, then the amount of money will remain the same and the services will remain the same. But if there's more money, why don't you give me more money right now? After all, the same EUR 60 or 80 million could still be given to local governments to improve their situation, and all this money is due not to compensation, but also to the development of local governments. We are talking about other services: health care, postal services, shops. They're already gone. Will the merger result in them re-emerging? That's a very suspicious question. According to the media, Latvia's experience tells us that, after joinings, when the number of municipalities decreased five times, the periphery grew. Unfortunately, life in Estonia is also going in the direction of centralising, and decisions concerning the regions are being taken in the capital. There hasn't been any talk about counties. What about them? According to our proposals, it would be necessary to establish a local regional level of governance on the basis of the existing self-government associations, which would also be a cooperation body between cities and municipalities. It might become a worthy partner for the central government. In such a case, the real increase in the well-being of members of the community would no longer be central. Although money is now being allowed to increase, experience shows that the merged municipalities had difficulty in receiving the money. Does it go better now, I don't know. Now they're saying we're gonna catch the stork, but maybe in two or three years we're gonna have to deal with the sparrow. There will always be more tasks and there will be more money for it, but will this money not result in a budget line from which it will be taken and could therefore suffer from the same on-site services provided, such as education services or health care services? So there are a lot of questions and it would still be reasonable to prepare a law in accordance with good legislative practice, which would also have implementing acts or basic laws, as the coalition always insists on the draft laws proposed by the opposition in this Chamber. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U564	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U565	Ladies and gentlemen, You know, the way this administrative reform is now being carried out reminds me of the colonial states that shared Africa with a ruler, without asking what nature is like in these regions, what people live there, what they do, what they call their home, and whether they also have colorful dreams. Likely, the colonial nations did not even consider the people who lived there to be human. I am extremely sorry that the Estonian government coalition has now started to act like colonial power towards its own people. We don't ask what it's like to live in Antsla, what it's like to live in Vaivara, what it's like to live in Türi. The Reform Party is looking at its Ecxel table, looking at its bill, says it's 5,000, but people just forget about it. And then these people say, "We're being deported from home, but we're not going. We stay put, do whatever you want, this is our home. ' Where have we come from building our country when people say that about their own government? This is the moment we should think in this hall that maybe it's time to brake. This is why the entire opposition has jointly found that it is necessary to pull the brake. It is important to stand here and remember that Estonia, it is the people, it is the people of Estonia. We are Estonia. The place where a person's 'we' is formed is, in fact, the first place is now mostly his municipality of residence, that's his first local government. It's the important thing after family, it's the place where people live who wear their hands when something happens to the family. It is this famous community that is the foundation of democracy. Therefore, administrative reform is almost as important as the Constitution and electoral reform, because it concerns something very, very organic in all our lives. It's about how you get the chance to say 'we'. If there is an administrative reform, you have to start by going to every village and asking, "But how do you and you and you want to live? What is it you're missing? What's this 'we'? ' Administrative reform means that we make up the smallest municipality that a person can identify himself with, and then we ask what the state can do to make these smallest municipalities work as well as possible. It doesn't matter if there are 500 or 1,000 or 5,000 people there. You can't say that from up here. That is what the people who live on the ground must say. But the government doesn't care. The authors of the administrative reform, on the one hand, are simply campaigning to write a bird behind a promise: we did this reform, so that it is a village of Potemkin, so that it is only on paper! In the process, efforts are being made to make a distribution that does not have a common border and which is only united by the fact that the Reform Party is in power everywhere. It's a joke! It's just power-stretching, just like colonial power did in Africa. This is not the move of a democratic government to make every person's life in Estonia better. We simply lose the essence of the self-governing self-governing government and centralise everything. If we get this one campaign done, we can rule. It's just that people want to decide something for themselves, that's what's bothering us! Yesterday, for example, we spoke here about the principle of subsidiarity, the principle that decisions relating to a person should be taken as close as possible to him. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U566	The attitude of the people of the forced communities was not combined, but these people are still looking towards each other to this day. The same result is seen in the case of mergers in Estonia, for example, the merger of Türi and the surrounding municipalities. There is no point in reform, and in order for the government to say that we have done anything. It's gonna pay off in the long run. This must be the seventh attempt to introduce administrative reform. Tens of or hundreds of analyses have been carried out explaining the bottlenecks of the local government system and the solutions proposed, which are now being ignored. It is sad that the coalition has given up making changes in substance and sees a magic wand only in the coercion of local governments and in changing borders, which does not really contribute to the efficiency of local governments. Without increasing or restoring funding to at least the same level as before the economic crisis, it will not be possible to provide better services. Quite small municipalities, where management costs per capita are unreasonable, are of course not sustainable. However, statistics show that in the case of proper management, municipalities with 1 500 to 3 000 inhabitants can also manage perfectly, with 5 000 or 11000 inhabitants not necessarily. It is important to be honest about and resolve the issues that are causing problems in the work of local governments, including reducing national reporting and bureaucracy that has gone beyond any borders, eliminating rural governments and allocating their tasks to both local governments and local governments, who must be given legal status and more rights, but the merger itself must be strictly voluntary. We met several thousand people on an EKRE tour across Estonia. Most of them do not support such an administrative reform. By the way, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities are just as critical of the reform and in the same positions as us. But why is there an attempt to push through an administrative reform that does not bring any positive results and improves the quality of governance? The answer is simple: for political purposes. For exactly the same reason, attempts are made to enforce the law that was rejected at the Supreme Court at the time, which would give a member of the Riigikogu the right to be a member of the local council at the same time. The aim is to increase the politicisation of local governments, to strengthen control and the verticals of power from Toompea to local governments, not to improve people's lives. This is another political machination of the coalition's back room to increase and perpetuate power. Unfortunately, we have not received sensible answers from reformers to substantive questions, not to mention hearing solutions. This administrative reform cannot be supported. I am therefore handing over the proposal of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt the second reading of the draft administrative reform law 200. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U567	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U568	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U569	Ladies and gentlemen, There is much to be said about administrative reform. For example, I personally have been involved in this since 1990 or 1991. All those who have been talking about and who have been working on this subject since Tarmo Loodus have been able to work, but unfortunately, this story is on the same level as it is today. I would like to say that according to § 156 of the Constitution, administrative reform can be done in two ways: one is when it is done from above, and the other is when the local authorities themselves want to do it. When we are talking about administrative reform, we are talking about the promotions that carry it in our country. I looked up the computer that was said in 2008. I read what our President said: 'I think, however, that these accessions should be voluntary. This will give us more optimal solutions. Although at some point when voluntary mergers are over, there are certainly some rural municipalities that are unable to fulfil the obligations they have. ' Prime Minister Andrus Ansip said this: 'In Europe, there have been many administrative-territorial reforms, and all these reforms so far confirm that administrative expenditure per capita has increased dramatically since the reform. " That was what our former Prime Minister said. Then there are a few very beautiful sentences that, I believe, stand out: 'These expectations that administrative reform can achieve some kind of nationwide austerity are certainly wrong. It has not been proven on any end of the world that savings could be achieved, rather in the first phase it means an increase in costs. ' Do you know who said that? This was said by the then Mayor of Tartu, today's Minister Urmas Kruuse. So you see, there are different ideas. I wanted to say that yesterday, our Prime Minister, too, said that the reform planned for 20 years will take place. So we're ready for this. It was a long time, 20 years to wait for it to happen. I also thought that each of us had opinions that needed to be done and what we should be thinking about when we are doing administrative reform. I think it is important to think about what the substantive objectives of the reform are, what we want to achieve, whether there is a need to reduce costs or to change any boundaries. That's the first thing. The political will to carry out the administrative-territorial reform is also very important. I remember what the Fatherland Alliance did. Really very hard work was done by Minister of the Interior Tarmo Loodus. He needs to be commended, because I think the theory of his attraction centers could be popular this day. It is necessary to create conditions and incentives to encourage local authorities to join. Of course, we need day-care centres, schools, clubs, I don't know what else, sports facilities, for example. This could be the surface on which one could talk to one another about the future. When we started talking about reform, we forgot to ask what people who live in the local government are thinking about where we are going. It could be stated that the continuation of the current policy does not provide an answer to the question which the administrative-territorial reform of the problem actually solves. I believe that everyone who has worked in the city administration, the municipality government or the council has wondered how the local government is developing and whether this reform fulfils two main objectives of developing services: to ensure that the people have access to services and their quality. The question is whether there will be a new division of tasks and rights and responsibilities between the central government and the local government during the reform process. Quite a lot has been asked whether the financing of the tasks will be reviewed and how much local authorities will receive centrally. But maybe it would be good to get away from the theory. I'm talking about my favorite place in Kohtla-Järve, where in 1960 all the small districts were put together in a city. Kohtla-Järve represented ten districts with almost 90,000 inhabitants. In 1990, this process began, which we can call gradually scrapping. That makes sense. Stone oil, Gun and Kohtla-Nõmme gained independence. I remember no one protested when we discussed this at the council. But when I came to work for the city hall, my teachers said that Kohtla-Järve had its own peculiarity, that people work in one part of the city, that there is the chemical industry, that there is the Viru Chemistry Group, that there is a city centre in the other part, that is, Jõhvi, and that people have to live 17 kilometres away. But suddenly in the autumn of 1991, I remember, Jõhvi was taken out of a system where there were all those things that meant a great deal to the city: water, sewerage, electricity, public transport and all those things that were logically linked together. In March Jõhvi gained independence and it turned out that for 20 years we already live in the way that people live in Ahtme, work in the Järve district, and the centre is in Jõhvi, and this logistics has been taken out of the heart. My proposal is that when we think about administrative reform, we should seriously think about the great work that we are facing. May all of us have the wisdom to do so. Really, local authorities need to live better. I believe that is possible, but today I can state that this whole reform has been carried out very quickly, and I, who have worked for many years in the local government, do not understand a few things, I say this sincerely. Thank you, everyone, and good night.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U570	Thank you. Valeri Korb, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U571	Thank you. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U572	Thank you. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U573	I ask for ten minutes of intermission before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U574	Thank you. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U575	Thank you. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U576	Dear colleagues, we have come to the third amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. I shall put the third amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu, 32 against and 1 abstention. The amendment was not supported. We move to the fourth amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U577	Please put it to the vote and before that, ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U578	Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U579	Dear President and ladies and gentlemen, first of all, good morning to all of you here. I listened to your calls in the office. Oh, surprise, I'm already in the third cast here, but I have to admit, our language is still evolving. I heard the words "rape," "deportation," and so on. I very much hope that the people who use these words from this remote control will know their content as well. Yes, we have a democratic country, but we should also think about what context, where and when we use such words. We have been saying for years and years that we need administrative reform. But then, when this administrative reform is started, it comes back to the view that no, no, we do-let's do it, but let's not do it now, let's just keep on looking at it. Is this the driving force of our country? I don't think so. When we talk about matters of substance, there will be no substantive proposals. I'm a little sad about that. If we want to improve the lives of the people of Estonia, we should do so in practice, not just use words to do so. It is said that there is no need for administrative reform now, that we are still doing all the elements of the state reform first, let us see what happens to rural governments and so on. We can't eat the sandwich at the same time, it'll just get stuck in our throats. Let's do it piece by piece, chew through it, and then we'll have another bite. As regards democracy within the framework of the new law, I believe that democracy can certainly be more where people want it and are active. I have had many and many meetings with people who have said that the further away there is a local government, the stronger the local community. There are similar opinions. So I wish all my colleagues wise decisions and wise thoughts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U580	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more requests. We have come unnoticed to the examination of the amendments. There are quite a number of them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U581	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U582	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U583	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 34 against and no one abstained. The proposal was not supported. A second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U584	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, for my part, I also welcome you at the late hour. Couldn't miss the opportunity to come before you and say your thoughts. I would like to add my thanks to those people who came to this remote control today and expressed their opinion, because the points of pain really are quite a lot, and they are quite similar. Everyone says the same thing: it's raw, very raw. What did I want to talk about? When we look back, about a year and a half ago, before the elections, the spokesperson for the administrative reform was a party. Time moved on, the government got together, and suddenly another party declared that now administrative reform is a priority in our republic. A minister was appointed, a part of the ministry was given to him and it was said that now everyone will see a miracle of how the Estonian state and local authorities will continue to live. There were conspiracys, various things were discussed, and at one point a fine law appeared before us. What the hell happened out there? There was no miracle. Looking at the law, it turned out that the Ministry had discussed matters with each other and decided that they would make such a great reward or give some money to those who volunteered, and those who did not voluntarily join, the Ministry would join together. Why did I personally expect a miracle? We have been saying for a long time that the Estonian administration system needs reform, reconstruction. If we look at financing at all and at the national financial system, we will see that 75% of the total resource is in the hands of the central government and only 25% is left at the level of the local government. All local authorities currently hold 25% of the state's total funding, which means they can only take on 25% of the total public service system. Is that a lot or a lot? It seems to me that this is extremely little. Local government is the body that is very well able to understand how people's lives should be organised. The first thing I expected was to review the functions of different levels and to think about what functions the local government would perform. There have been calls in this hall for us to do and think boldly. Why not take rescue workers to the local government level? Why not take certain police functions to the local government level? Why not put medical care in the responsibility of the local government? Why not provide social services in full at local government level? It wasn't mentioned, it's not even discussed today. What are we seeing today? What offer do we see? 5,000. it's basically our future local government, that's where we're going. In this light, I wonder why not 2000, why not 10,000, why not 20,000 inhabitants. The local government has become a very strange and uniform criterion of 5,000 inhabitants. If local authorities want to join so that larger local authorities, such as municipalities with up to 10,000 or up to 20,000 inhabitants, are formed, what benefits do they derive from this? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U585	Before the vote. Do you have a wish to vote? Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U586	Yes, I would like to put the second amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U587	You would like to put the second amendment to the vote. I didn't understand your proposal, Valeri Korb. [[V. Korb's appeal.]] Did you want a ten-minute break before the vote? Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U588	Ladies and gentlemen, In order to make the sitting smoother, I have a reminder that an amendment must still be put to the vote before the intermission takes place. But now the second amendment. I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 34 against and no one abstained. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Centre Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U589	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 3 before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U590	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U591	Mechanical integration is caused by the emergence of large local governments in Estonia, which are formed in several regions, from different pieces, between which other local governments remain. Colleagues here recalled where they came from and what regions have been exposed to. I am also from a town like this, where 25 years of distance between the districts has been about 50 kilometres. I am well aware that, in essence, these small weak parts of the city were lucky that they were attached to large and strong parts of the city, because boiler houses and heating units were built precisely at the expense of large and strong districts, and the infrastructure was also created at the expense of large and strong districts. But what will happen if two poor local governments join? Whose account, then, will life take place there, and for what will life be organized? These questions have not been answered. I join my fellow Members' proposal to stop reading the draft. I hope that it will continue to work and we will get a much better result in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U592	Larger electoral districts mean that a proportional electoral system will lose its virtues, but its shortcomings and vices will grow. So in the coming years, we can come up with the question that our democracy will change formally to a certain method of crisis. So we should come back to this and see if what is happening right now is wise. The fact that the law says, okay, for four years you may have several electoral circles, but after that any number of electoral circles greater than one is prohibited is not very reasonable. The last point I want to say is that when I come into contact with this bill, I am most embarrassed because the word 'voluntaryity', which in Estonian has had a high-flying and noble meaning, is once again reduced to this kind of Soviet-type cynical political technology, meaning nothing or rather the opposite word. Whatever the other drawbacks of this bill are, but listen, there is just as much volunteering in the volunteering that has been described there as in the purchase of government bonds in Stalin. Then it was also said that citizens, you got paid, and now you voluntarily buy these bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U593	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U594	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the pleasant debate that has taken place here today. There's been a lot of things, yesterday and today. Indeed, I am saddened that this pleasant debate will be followed by an obstruction, which could be cancelled. That's right. But anyway, I think that if there are no nights of passions like this at least once a year in the Riigikogu, it will be like a lap without vinegar. When it comes to this draft, as I have said on two previous occasions, the social democrats have two priorities here. I'm telling you, it's not a superlaw that solves all the problems in the world. This is a start in order to modernise our administrative arrangements and bring them to the dimensions that we can sustain. In addition to this, we believe that there are two important things. First, funding. Another thing is how to carry on the local initiative when larger municipalities develop. I could not say that we have now got a super result in compromise here, but there is nothing to blame for what we have achieved. As we have been saying, we want to see that the country's budgetary strategy clearly includes what is going to happen and how the state plans to fund local governments in the future. These preliminary results are also available. I am not going to read them here in terms of time savings, but you have all heard of them, but the emphasis is stronger in the years 2019 to 20200, but they exist. The second thing about the right of say-so. The draft specifies the rights and competences of the local and district councils. It is, I think, tried to hone quite to the maximum, so that it would not interfere with the autonomy of the municipality. It would be pretty difficult to see here. There have also been debates that talk about the mandatory nature of the public, which should also be included in the law. I don't see the option of being legally binding. It can't be like that. If we're looking at real life, where people are active and something's going on, there's also a division. Finally, I say that the draft should be supported today, or rather tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. I dare say that there are also reasonable differences from Setus to the islands. Even the very subject of the Setus, which specifically concerns Luhamaa's foul status. Today it can be said that it is now up to the Setus themselves to take the initiative whether or not they can make their own municipality within these frameworks. But the legislator has at least written in today's version of these options. I, of course, think in my heart that future municipalities should place greater emphasis on cultural areas and cultural cooperation. I do not believe that in Võrumaa, for example, where I come from, we are now able to make the area of the entire Võru culture a municipality of the size of the areal, but maybe someday we will come to that. So nothing. Have a good night for all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U595	Thank you. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U596	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U597	Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U598	Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U599	Got it. Valeri Korb, what is your wish? There are now two proposals: a vote and a ten-minute break. What do you want? Nothing at the moment. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U600	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. Please, Mr. Milling! Is it a procedural question? The microphone will also be nice to you so you can hear better. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U601	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-Chairman, I have a procedural question: why is the Vice-Chairman smiling?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U602	Because it's a pleasure to work with you. [[Let's hear it.]] We are on the fifth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Following a serious discussion, the Steering Committee has taken the view that this proposal should be disregarded. I shall put the fifth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu and 36 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Governing Commission's position is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U603	Thank you. I ask for the vote on Amendment 6 and before this ten minutes break!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U604	Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U605	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on the sixth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The lead committee has not taken the proposal into account. I shall put the sixth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was not supported by a convincing majority (11 votes for, 27 against and 3 abstentions). Let's move on. The seventh amendment is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U606	Please put this point to the vote and before this ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U607	Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U608	Dear colleagues, it is 4.57 p.m. and the break requested by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. We are on the seventh amendment, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The lead committee has not taken the proposal into account. I shall put this amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 14 members of the Riigikogu and 27 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please, Valeri Korb, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U609	I ask that Amendment 8 be put to the vote, and before that, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U610	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on the eighth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. I shall put the eighth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu and 27 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Igor Gräzin. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U611	I'm asking you to vote for it, and it's the practice of basketball that I take a minute's break!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U612	Thank you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U613	I'm asking for a little longer break, ten minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U614	Is that enough? Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U615	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are at the ninth amendment, tabled by Igor Gräzin. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. I shall put the ninth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. For 14 members of the Riigikogu and against 27. The proposal was not supported. Let us move to the next proposal, which is the tenth, which has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U616	I ask for the vote on Amendment 10, and before this ten minutes break!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U617	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. We are on the fourth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. I shall put the fourth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu, against 28 and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U618	Thank you. Is it a procedural question, Henn Põllamaas?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U619	Please put the fifth amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U620	We ask for ten minutes' break before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U621	Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U622	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U623	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are on the tenth amendment. It is presented by the lead committee, the position being taken fully into account. I shall put the tenth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu and 10 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. The position of the lead committee is to take the substance into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U624	Thank you. I ask for the vote on Amendment 11 and before this ten minutes break!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U625	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U626	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. We are at the 11th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. The position of the lead committee is to take the substance into account. I shall put the 11th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu with 29 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U627	Thank you. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is asking for this proposal to be voted on and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U628	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U629	Good fellows, recess is over. We are at the 12th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. I shall put the 12th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 5 members of the Riigikogu and 32 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us move to Amendment 13, which has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U630	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. The Estonian Conservative People's Party would like to vote on it and would like a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U631	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U632	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. We have already reached the 13th amendment on the Cribinal Crabina, which has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The lead committee has not taken the proposal into account. I shall put the 13th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu and 25 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The lead committee has not taken the proposal into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U633	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U634	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U635	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. We are on Amendment 14, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. I shall put the 14th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 4 members of the Riigikogu and 29 against, no one abstained. The proposal was not supported. We move to Amendment 15, which has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U636	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U637	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. We are at the 15th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. I shall put the 15th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu and 24 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16 has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U638	Thank you. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is asking for this proposal to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U639	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Our group is asking for this proposal to be voted on and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U640	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. We are at the 16th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. I shall put the 16th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu and 24 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U641	Thank you. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is asking for this proposal to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U642	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U643	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended. We are on Amendment 17; it has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. I shall put the 17th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. For 12 members of the Riigikogu and against 27. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18 has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Mark Soosaar, Kalev Kotkas, Imre Sooäär, Rainer Vakra and Aivar Kokk. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U644	Thank you. The Estonian Conservative People's Party is asking for this proposal to be voted on and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U645	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U646	The break taken by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 19, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 2 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 32 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 20 is tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U647	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Our group is asking for this proposal to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U648	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Our group is asking for this proposal to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U649	Break's over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 22 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 10 in favour, 24 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 23 is tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U650	Honourable Riigikogu, the break taken by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 20 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 11 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 25 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U651	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U652	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party wishes to vote on this proposal and asks for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U653	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U654	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U655	The requested break is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 21 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There were 12 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 25 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 22 is tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U656	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U657	Break's over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 23 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 8 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 26 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 24 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U658	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U659	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U660	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to vote on Amendment 29 and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U661	Break's over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 28, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been partially taken into account by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 18 members of the Riigikogu, with 29 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 29 is tabled by Mark Soosaar, Kalev Kotkas, Imre Sooäär, Rainer Vakra and Aivar Kokk. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U662	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U663	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for the 28th amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U664	Break's over. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 27 tabled by Mark Soosaar, Heljo Pikhof and Kalev Kotkas, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 19 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 22 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 28 is tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, partly taken into account. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U665	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U666	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U667	I shall put to the vote Amendment 26 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu with 29 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 27 has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Mark Soosaar, Heljo Pikhof and Kalev Kotkas. The proposal has been rejected. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U668	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U669	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is asking for this proposal to be voted on and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U670	Break's over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 25 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu and 27 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 26 is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U671	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party wishes to vote on this proposal and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U672	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U673	I shall put to the vote Amendment 24 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu and 26 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 25 has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U674	Thank you. Our group would like to vote on this proposal and ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U675	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U676	I ask for this rather unfortunate amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U677	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U678	I shall put to the vote Amendment 33, tabled by Mr Adams, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu and 35 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 34, Group of the Social Democratic Party, fully taken into account. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U679	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this proposal to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U680	I shall put to the vote Amendment 32, tabled by Mr Metsoja, Mr Kivimägi and Mr Soosaar, which has been disregarded by the commission responsible. Please take a stand and vote. There are 19 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 28 votes against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 33 is tabled by Mr Adams. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U681	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U682	I ask for a ten-minute break before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U683	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U684	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask you to put this very good and very important amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U685	I shall put to the vote Amendment 31, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 14 members of the Riigikogu and 34 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 32 has been tabled by Riigikogu members Andres Metsoja, Toomas Kivimägi and Mark Soosaar. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U686	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U687	Thank you. I ask for the 31st amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U688	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 30 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu and 35 against, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Honourables, I ask for silence in the Chamber during the vote. Amendment 31 is tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The proposal has been rejected. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U689	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U690	Thank you. I ask for the 30th amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U691	I shall put to the vote Amendment 29 tabled by Mark Soosaar, Kalev Kotkas, Imre Sooäär, Rainer Vakra and Aivar Kokk. Please take a stand and vote. There are 18 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 28 votes against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 30 is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The Governing Commission has failed to take account of this. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U692	Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! I shall put to the vote Amendment 34, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 25 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 40 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Dear Riigikogu, I will take the chairman's break until 10:00, so that the technical service can prepare the Thursday session. Wednesday's session is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 09.48.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U693	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-11_U694	I ask for a ten-minute break before the vote!
