ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 49 members of the Riigikogu participate in Question Time. The members of the government who answer your questions are Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir and Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Last day, eight members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask a question, so I will give each subject an opportunity to submit an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U2	The first question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Asking Dmitri Dmitriev. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! On 12 October, in response to a question from my colleague, Peeter Ernitsa, Minister of State Administration Arto Aas promised: 'But we will certainly discuss the future scenarios of the municipal financing model in the government within the next month. ' Since it has been more than a month and this topic is of enormous interest to local governments, perhaps you can tell how far the Government of the Republic has come by reviewing the financing model of local governments. What fundamental changes are planned to be introduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U4	Thank you. First of all, I am pleased to say that the administrative reform is taking full advantage of Estonia. Eight municipalities have already decided to join, and negotiations are currently underway in 48 accession regions, or accession talks are being held by 175 municipalities throughout the country. Only 10 municipalities that do not meet the criteria do not hold accession talks; they must be subject to a compulsory merger decision under the law in force. 19 municipalities fulfilling the accession criteria also do not hold accession talks. These include some very large municipalities, which do not have the inevitable need to join. So the lion's share, nearly 90% of Estonian municipalities, either hold accession talks or have already successfully completed them. That's one. The question concerned the revenue base. It is true that the Minister of State Administration, Arto Aas, has submitted a proposal to the Government of the Republic to reform the revenue base. One part of this proposal was, among other things, raising the income of all local governments back to pre-crisis levels, which would be 12,13% of the current value of income tax. In addition, there were a number of concrete ideas on how income tax could be distributed more equally between municipalities in order to level out the spread and lower incomes. In my opinion, these are very good proposals. They not only make all municipalities more prosperous, but also ensure that local governments throughout Estonia have sufficient funding. But the fate of these proposals is open, and I'm sure you know why.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U5	Dmitri Dmitriev, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U6	Thank you. The Jõgeva County Municipalities Association recently approached the Chancellor of Justice because of a letter from the Minister of Public Administration, which spoke about the preference of the merged municipalities for the allocation of support measures. The notification letter stated that the criterion of the indicative size of the administrative reform (11000 inhabitants) should be taken into account as an advantage for all investment grants granted from the state budget or structural resources to local authorities. Additional preference is also provided for local authorities covering the whole county after accession. As the objective of the administrative reform you are leading is to form municipalities of at least 5 000 inhabitants, should not all entities meeting this criterion be treated equally?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U7	Thank you. Of course, everyone must be treated equally. However, the Hiiumaa is that measure how you measure, but two municipalities with 5,000 inhabitants or more than 5,000 inhabitants cannot measure Hiiumaa. So in Hiiumaa, all rural municipalities should join each other in any case. In Hiiumaa and, in fact, Saaremaa, but if I do not see this happening at the moment, I do not foresee that another or another county will join as one municipality, then it will also receive additional grants to finance such a merger even more. It has had a clear idea. The government's aim has been to encourage the formation of municipalities with at least 5 000 inhabitants, but if it is agreed that the whole county will join, then it has been specifically aimed at further supporting it with state budget resources. To this end, quite significant resources have been provided in the state budget to pay more generous but also more motivating membership support to municipalities in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U8	Heimar Lenk, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U9	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! I understand that positions may change in the coming weeks, and the Estonian state may start to look differently than it does now. But what is your government's position on rural governments? Should land governments be eradicated or retained? You've spoken like that and you've spoken like that, but what if you answer yes or no? And when would they be eliminated?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U10	Thank you. No, I'm not talking about it like that, and I'm not talking about it. I have been thinking since the beginning that rural governments should be reformed. We have a reform plan in the government, which basically agreed on 25 August, so that instead of 15 rural governments and 500 circa employees, there would be one institution in the future, either as a branch of a ministry or as a department or in several different ministries. But basically, this resource should be pooled and done with about 100 people. The remaining tasks, together with funding, should be allocated to municipalities that are by then larger and more capable. This plan was agreed in principle by the government on 25 August, but we understand perfectly that unfortunately, not all parties are prepared to comply with these agreements. Therefore, I cannot give you any guarantees as to whether this plan will proceed. But I think that, in principle, this plan is sensible and rational, and it must be compensated by the transfer of the units of the central authorities of the country to the county centres. Then you can ensure that the state's presence in county centres does not reduce the sum of the sum. It's a plan they've been trying to attribute to, like the counties are disappearing. I'm telling you, I don't think the counties should disappear. The county as an administrative division, where the identity of the region has its historical role and the cooperation of municipalities at the county level is in any case reasonable. I do not consider it appropriate to abolish these administrative divisions. But the country's governments should go away.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U12	The next question is for Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. We know that there have been rather difficult problems with border management, both because of land ownership and because of actual work. There's been delays. How far is it to clean up the border, and how has the government thought when will the border be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U14	Thank you for your question. Now it's gonna take a long time, even though there's only two minutes left. A few weeks ago, I gave the Government of the Republic an overview of how the state of the border building is and what state we are in. To sum up very briefly, we are on schedule with the establishment of an information system, but there is a small gap in cleaning and deforestation, for a purely substantive reason: in the last few years it has been such a winter that it has been very difficult for 17 kilometres to work. It will soon become clear whether we can do these jobs this winter, or whether we need to understand that this very small piece of land border in Estonia does not need to be disposed of and cleaned in this form, because it is not possible to go there either by technique or therefore for the purpose of illegal border crossing. In other respects, deforestation and cleaning have been carried out. Similarly, preparatory work is currently underway for electricity supply. Once the power supply has been moved there, you can start building specific border sections. We have a 40-mile or even more project ready. The aim is to start, as soon as possible, building a "model border section" of 1.6 kilometres to see if all systems that are planned on the border are physically operational and fit for the border. That's the state we're in. There is a certain backwardness, mainly in terms of land transfer and the deforestation of the border, but the PBGB will do everything in its power to conclude a construction contract and start construction in the first months of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U15	Arno Bridge, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U16	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This time it's a shorter question. Who's gonna deal with deforestation and brush cleaning? So far, it was RMK's task. It is already known that bushes are rising so quickly in some areas that border guards are busy trying to carry out their tasks there between bushes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U17	Thank you. That was indeed a somewhat shorter question. The short answer is that public procurement for maintenance is being organised. He who wins the public procurement will do so. As far as the specific border strip is concerned, most of the place where the construction work has ended is quite different, from the sand strip to the surveillance equipment that is there. The nature of the maintenance will be completely different after the border has been built, than it is now. For the time being, care means cutting the bush and cleaning the brush regularly. After the border has been completed, from the patrol track to the border between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Estonia, there are, in fact, 10 metres or more of the land that actually no longer requires cutting the bush, but rather the milling of the sand and the maintenance of surveillance equipment. So the nature of the work changes, but the border must be fully built.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U18	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! As I understand it, the planning and design of the construction of the border began only at the beginning of this year. Do you now honestly admit that what you did at the end of 2014 was planned as a pre-election show, when you went to the border with great technology, were whacked and cut, and the border was generally rendered uncontrollable? As a result, even now there are parts of the border sections that cannot be guarded. You don't do that normally.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U20	Thank you. I absolutely disagree with you here. If we want the border to be built up as we really want, and as we design it, with 100% electronic surveillance, it is not possible to talk about not clearing the border line. The sooner we started cleaning the border line, the more likely it was that the border could be built. All the work was performed exactly on the schedule agreed with the PBGB. Of course, in order to design the border, you need to see this border line. There was a need to do geodesy, cleaning and milling work there was a great deal to do. There is a need to continue to transport power lines and to build access routes. All this is necessary to allow construction work to begin next year. If you have not been in this process every day, the preparatory work may seem very long, but it is precisely so that the border becomes what we have wanted it to be, so that it becomes Europe, but perhaps the best land border in the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U22	The next question is for the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have a question about your involvement in EAS on 12 October. We're talking about Ermamaa. On the 12th of October, you commented on it to the Ärieht as follows: "No circumstances have emerged today that would necessitate a decision to be amended. " On October 14, you said that you had ordered the EAS Council to conduct an audit. On 3 November, you said: 'As a minister, I cannot interfere with the everyday work of EAS and I had to believe that the board had done its job properly. " But on October 4, it turned out that you actually knew already in August exactly what was behind this decision. Why are your fickle mind and indecisiveness that you have given so many different comments on this subject over several days?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U24	Thank you. The question was that a number of words were misleadingly and in the form of an inaccurate quote, which gives me the opportunity to highlight this time series a little better in order to show how this situation really took place. The founder of EAS has the Minister of Entrepreneurship, so now it's me. Each week, one of the members of the EAS Board attends a meeting with the Minister for Enterprise and gives an overview of the topics that are on the table every day, and hopefully will also talk about bigger goals. Specifically, the Ermamaa case was discussed in August. The chairman of the board noted that inquiries had been made. There was no more talk about this at the time. Just before the president changed, we talked about it again. Then the chairman of the board spoke a little bit more about the subject, including the percentage of recovery. My question was, in general terms, whether this is a fair percentage. The Chairman of the Management Board replied that this was the case and that it would not be possible to change it. Of course, it's up to me to trust the head of the organization, to let him do his job, and to take care of it. Later...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U25	Thank you, Madam Secretary. One question can be answered in two minutes. There is an answer now, because Kalle Palling has a very specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U26	Thank you. On the one hand, I fully understand that you did not want to interfere with the activities of the EAS, but on the other, you decided at one point, despite the fact that Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has also considered it a bad practice to intervene in the activities of the associations established by the state, however, to do so. My question is why you didn't do it in August. Then it would have been possible to prevent damage to Estonia's reputation in foreign media and the emergence of a very large bucket of water by our President.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U27	I agree with you that this seriously damaged the reputation of both the President and the organisation. In August, I was given an indication that the media was interested in this subject, and that was all we talked about. I received a more detailed overview of this issue when I was told that the decision would be sent out as such and that there would be clear legal arguments. This wasn't where I should have gone into some kind of analysis. It is the competence of the Governing Board; it is the responsibility of the Governing Board to ensure that the decisions it takes are legally competent. This decision was made in haste, I have said it, and this haste really caused, as you rightly pointed out, significant damage to the reputation. I believe the organisation will also take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U28	Kristjan Kõljalg, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U29	Thank you. Am I to understand that you understood that this was an important decision that could have led to a risk only after that risk had already been fulfilled? Did you actually know about this in August, but only after the media had arranged this so-called show, did you realise it was a reputational damage? It's gonna be a little crazy. Did you not then assess the impact of this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U30	Thank you. Once again, in August, the information I was given was one. It was that there have been inquiries into the support given to the President ten years ago. That's all I had at the moment. I didn't think it was necessary to ask that question, and the board didn't think it was necessary to give it to me. I don't quite agree that the media made it into a show. I would say that the media drew attention to a number of areas of pain that the organisation could not adequately respond to at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U32	The next question is for Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The PBA plans to join three police stations in South-Estonia next year as the South-East Precinct of Võru, Valga and Põlva. In the past, in the context of next year's budget, it has been stated that the mobilisation of the PPP will not be forthcoming in the coming years. However, a pilot project of the South-East Precinct has been taken up, with the potential for success that the project will move to other precincts. How do you explain this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U34	Thank you for a good question. Yes, this guideline has in principle been decided by the Government of the Republic that the PBGB does not have to reduce the number of employees, either by order or by reference to the figures given. This does not mean, however, that the PBGB itself could not make any changes to the restructuring of its work if necessary. What is currently in the experimental phase in Võru, Valga and Põlva County has come from a clear desire to harmonise the levels of management and, if necessary, to provide additional resources for a supra-regional response. Let's look at two precincts for comparison, like Narva and Valga. There are about 60 people working at the Valga precinct. If we consider that the service takes place seven days a week 24 hours a day and some of the staff may be sick, trained, etc., we will see that the station manager has a dozen people to run every day. So about one in ten people are in charge of the precinct. The situation in Narva is quite different because there are about 250 people in this department. The responsibility of the division leaders has so far been very unequal. In order to move resources better than more resources are needed in Valgamaa, it is possible to move them better from Võru or Põlva, or vice versa, and in order to better plan the work, the Southern Prefect has proposed to try joint management of the three departments, give more responsibility to the team level and achieve better planning of resources as well as better management. This is the bearing idea of why this project is being tried. If it doesn't work, it's always possible to go back to the old model. However, if it works, this could be a clear example of how we can move forward elsewhere in Estonia, precisely to give more to the team level...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U35	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U36	I'm sorry! Keep asking, then we can continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U37	Anneli Ott, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U38	Thank you. I'll be more specific. Is one of the objectives of this project not to raise the salaries of existing workers, which is, of course, positive? But this raise would again be at the expense of internal resources. How do you assess how much can still be pulled together in the PBA and made redundant so that the organisation still functions and is able to perform its functions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U39	Thank you. The south-eastern region is one of the most difficult areas for police follow-up. Despite the fact that certain service groups also have additional coefficients, it is very difficult to hire people in these departments. The fact that the Government of the Republic has foreseen an increase of 3% in the budget for next year means additional funds that the PBGB can use. How this money is distributed within the organisation is expected to be demonstrated in the coming weeks when the PBGB can make these decisions. However, with regard to whether this project would also allow the salary of, for example, those involved in patrolling to be increased, it certainly provides an additional opportunity for this to happen, since it is primarily organised at a level of governance with higher salaries. I guess there's a lot of things to do, like I said. But we have to keep working on staff growth. As I have said before, about 1,700 police officers will reach retirement age in the next ten years at the PBA, which is over 40% of the active police force. This is a very large number and, as a result, it is necessary to monitor how the internal defence academy prepares for the next generation and also to find the means to raise wages so that those who work in the police do not have to leave because of poor wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U40	Martin Helme, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U41	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You were in the Committee on Monetary Affairs this week and you showed an interesting table that contained the ratio of the amount to GDP for internal security. There was, in my opinion, such a very interesting correlation that Eastern European countries spent much more on internal security and the western welfare societies were the least spent. In my opinion, Denmark and Ireland spent the least. I have a question in the context of pay. Is it because they are countries with fewer crimes and there may be fewer police officers, or where police are paid less? What does this geographical correlation have to do with?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U42	Thank you. As I said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there are several reasons for this. One of the reasons is that our debt accumulated over a period of 50 years or more, especially in real estate and machinery, means that we have to help ourselves and spend a lot of money to make sure that the physical working environment of police and border guards is modern. The other half of this is that our geographical location makes it necessary to contribute more to internal security. Thirdly, the specific nature of a small country is that it is expensive to keep a country. In absolute terms, the same is true: if we look at the GDP of Denmark and Estonia, we will see the difference. Of course, Denmark makes a significantly lower contribution as a percentage, but in absolute terms it will take much more resources to support the police service or the whole area of internal security. The fourth reason is that the different design of the systems must be taken into account. For example, in Central Europe rescue services are available to fund municipalities and do not go into the calculation of the central government. So there are several reasons. In fact, a long story could be written about how different countries assess internal security costs differently and why these differences exist. But those were the main reasons. I have said before, and I am also of the opinion that in addition to national defence, internal security would also need about 2% of GDP for a stable development. From that point of view, I'm not backing down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U44	Honourable Riigikogu! The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has announced that Mart Helme is not asking a question today. The following question is therefore put to Mr Pevkur, Minister for the Interior, Raivo Põldaru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to the state budget reads as follows: 'The police guarantee the ability to prevent threats and offences. The regional police labour model will be implemented and a long-term plan on the spatial location of the police will be drawn up in support of it. ' Maybe you could explain your thoughts a little bit? Does this include capacity building for regional constables? Today, one district constable in the country can serve even four municipalities. There were times when every municipality really had a constable. Clearly, their work has changed, but the constable still plays a very important role in preventing local crime in his area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U46	Thank you. You've got it all right. The main job of a district police officer is to prevent crime. Let's look at the time before 2014. Then the situation was that the district policeman, the good old-name "officer," also dealt with procedural matters, certain investigative activities, and a lot of other things. After the change in 2014, the main work of the district police officer is still communicating with the local community. The current feedback is that the network created and the number of tasks assigned to the district police officer are optimal. In fact, it's very important to make sure we don't get stuck in the word "officer." It would certainly be wrong to be stuck in it. The task of a regional police officer must be looked at, how it is possible to ensure the most effective pre-trial investigation of crimes and as effective prevention as possible. The consequences of the 2014 amendment give us the opportunity to see how much the work of the district police officer has changed. Looking to the future, I say that prevention is certainly very important, but it must also be ensured that there is research capacity and traffic surveillance capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U47	Raivo Põldaru, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I don't understand, but I know this area a little bit, because I've been wearing a uniform myself, not a constable uniform. But the question is, how can they do it? The regions and the number of inhabitants served are still very high. Is it intended that, perhaps because of immigration, the Commissioner for the region needs to know even more about people living in the community or in the territory he serves, that he needs to know more about them? In his day, it was very important that the constable knew and knew his people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U49	Thank you. In my opinion, administrative reform still plays a major role here. I believe that, after the administrative reform, the police will be able to ensure that there is one regional police officer in each municipality, who is the main partner in preventive work. How the police distribute their resources internally depends, above all, on the need in one region or another, whether there is a need for more operators, more traffic surveillance or more patrols. What is important is what is expected of the police in one region or another. It is clear that in Tallinn, for example, there is a need for more practitioners and in South-East Estonia more communicators with the community. This freedom certainly exists in the police to determine which right to work is to be exercised. Here, of course, is the inevitable feedback from local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U50	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U51	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I seriously doubt whether a person's ability to remember the faces of the people in his area will grow as a result of the removal of the borders of local governments, because there are still so many people left. But my question is: if those who were called constables by their former name are reduced, if there is a challenge because of some criminal case, the patrol will come in sooner or at least as quickly as it is from somewhere? What guarantees are there that the police in a critical situation will still arrive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U52	Thank you. Of course, every policeman does his job on the basis of a policeman's oath. If there's a challenge, he'll respond. If, for example, a case requires a detective or a forensicsman to arrive, the expert will come. That is why it is very important that, since a district police officer does not have the necessary scope for research, perhaps from a good old time, if that is the case, certain constables have a certain research capability, then more and more police are still moving towards service-based management to ensure the best possible service. This best possible service can still come from experience. Whether an investigator or a forensics officer arrives and whether or not the prosecutor's office needs to be involved depends on a specific case. But always the nearest free resource reacts. From there on, the procedure begins along its own path.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U54	Question for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes. Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U55	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! Estonia is quite prominent in the world with its tax system; according to Tax Foundation, we have the best tax system in the world. At the same time, we know that we have relatively high taxes on labour. Now there is a new, left-wing coalition in formation, and a number of new ideas can be read in the media. The representatives of the Centre Party confirmed yesterday that progressive income tax will come, while other partners are trying to claim that this will not happen. One thing is certain: income tax is intended to be raised to 26%. In view of the importance to us of high-wage jobs, what do you consider the impact of raising personal income tax on the Estonian economy, especially on investments that bring new highly paid jobs to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U56	Thank you. As far as coalition talks are concerned, we do not yet know too much about them, apart from saying that there is a desire to increase labour taxes. That is why I am not commenting on these issues very specifically at the moment. We will wait for these proposals and then we will be able to evaluate them. Speaking of the general logic of the tax system, the Estonian tax system has been rated as the most competitive in the world, and it is one of the fundamental foundations of economic growth, it is worth remembering that the current tax system, which provides for proportionate income tax, was established already in the early 1990s. From there ten years on, the tax rates were stable and for the last 14 years the tax rates have clearly been declining. When the Juhan Parts government came to power in 2003, the income tax was 26%, the last percentage was lowered by the previous government in 2015. The decision to make a social tax to 32% has also been taken during the current government. What is very important is that this is clearly such a trend that labour taxes are in decline. This trend has been going on in Estonia for 14 years. If this trend is either stopped or, worse, reversed, it will, of course, entail clear risks to future growth. This will certainly have a negative impact on investments, as the stability of the tax system is very important for investors. So if the trend changes, then, yes, it has a negative effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U57	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U58	Thank you. I understand that the only way to support the economy with tax policy is to keep labour taxes and corporate tax rates low and keep the tax base wide. That's the trend so far. The one that you also pointed out that this trend was falling, but now it's starting to rise, has a very long-term effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U59	Thank you. The OECD carried out a very in-depth study on the impact of taxes on growth years ago, taking into account experience from different countries. This survey unambiguously states that the biggest obstacles to economic growth are corporate income tax; immediately thereafter, there are various taxes on labour, i.e. income tax and social tax in the Estonian sense. If some of them, whether corporate tax, social tax or personal income tax, are increased, their impact on economic activity is greatest. Yes, other taxes will undoubtedly have a negative impact on the economy, but they will have a smaller impact because they will not tax value creation. The main problem with corporate tax, personal income tax and social tax is that they hinder either profit or income, but these are the things that drive the world forward and generate growth. The tax system has not only fiscal or budgetary effects but also behavioural effects. The excise duty is not only intended to fill the Treasury, but also to reduce consumption. In most cases excise duty is applied to harmful goods, that is the general logic. The same is true of tax policy. If, for example, the creation of higher-paid jobs is inhibited by imposing a higher tax burden on them, whether by means of a step or a higher rate, this is already a more technical issue, it is very likely that higher-paid jobs will be less. When it comes to promoting very low wages, the jobs that are created into the economy tend to be just low wages. Estonia's success so far has ensured an equal tax burden for everyone. This has contributed to the rapid increase in wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U60	Martin Helme, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U61	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Unfortunately, you cannot ask both of you, even though you are so unanimous here in terms of the right side and taxes. I am not in favour of progressive income tax, and our party is not in favour of it. But we are talking here about investment and growth. We have all done what the OECD recommends, and the taxes are exactly what they should be. Why aren't we growing up anyway? Why have we had even negative investments in recent years? Why is the only investor that invests in us a government that plows taxpayers' money into the economy and it still does not generate economic growth? What about the right in this state capitalism?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U62	Thank you. It is not true that only the government invests. Yes, it is true that in recent years the Estonian Government has invested more than most other European Union countries. This has partly taken place with the support of the European Union, partly as an informed choice. As the Minister of the Interior said, for example, the creation of a border is an investment in the field of internal security. I think you will agree that this investment is needed. If we build polygons or barracks, it's an investment in national defence. I think that the majority of members of the Riigikogu still agree that these investments need to be made. So the investments made by the State are also very necessary. It is also not true that the level of investment in Estonia is very low compared to other countries. On the contrary, as far as direct foreign investment is concerned, Estonia has been a superstar in history and is still a superstar in our entire region. Both Latvia and Lithuania's foreign direct investments in terms of years are smaller in absolute terms than our own. If we look at the trend for a few years, it turns out, yes, we can do even better. There is certainly still potential here and there is work to be done to attract investment here. I have done this work, and other members of the government have done it, and very many ministers from different political parties have worked on it. But we should not be ashamed of Latvia or Lithuania in comparison. That's for sure. Even if we look at any other Central or Eastern European country that has been our destiny mate in history, we do not have to be ashamed. In any case, in order to obtain investment, the tax environment and the economic environment as a whole need to be predictable and to be favourable. If you want to turn away from this course, you must remember that there are dangers. It should also be stressed that, for example, when examining the situation in different countries, including Estonia, it turns out that the profits and investments of companies are highly correlated. So if you take more income tax from them, it will definitely discourage investment, you can be sure of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U63	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U64	But you should not be sad because the next question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas is presented by Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U65	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Obviously, the ongoing negotiations on a new power union are currently under high public scrutiny. There has been an issue about borrowing into the country. What are the opportunities of the Estonian state here at all, given the tightened budget rules of the European Union and the laws of our country? What are the frameworks within which we can operate and take extra credit? I also refer to the Monday interview, which was given to the Estonian Day Paper by the chairman of the Central Party Group. He said the loan had criteria, the loan couldn't be more than 100 million. Has the Minister of Finance introduced any additional borrowing opportunities to the government? What are these opportunities in the light of the rules in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U66	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U67	Thank you. The 100 million you referred to in the question is about 0.5% of GDP. The 2017 budget foresees a structural surplus of 0.2% according to the balance criterion. The Estonian State Budget Act says that the budget must be structurally balanced or in surplus. So it's like there's a lot less of this loan space, that's 40 to 100 million. However, as the state budget for 2017 has already arrived in Parliament's procedure and the budgetary framework prevents Parliament from deteriorating its balance position, I do not see the possibility that the budget balance could be seriously disrupted next year. So rather we're talking about supposedly 2018. There's two lines. Firstly, our own national law says that the budget must at least be structurally balanced. That's the law. Changing it is theoretically possible, but it will certainly reduce again, just like the reasons given in the previous reply, the predictability of the Estonian economic environment and confidence in the eyes of investors. Secondly, European rules also set their limits. The rules of the Stability and Growth Pact have been agreed across Europe. There, too, would rather be condemned to go into too much trouble. This does not mean that there are no countries that have gone down, but we know that their welfare has not been good. So we can learn from the experiences of others and not repeat their mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U68	Aivar Sõerd, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U69	Thank you for these explanations. I'm going to go over it for clarification. Is it not the case that Estonia may be able to deviate from the structural balance due to the rules of the European Union, because we have a low level of public debt and our public finances are sustainable? In addition, it is possible to request permission for deviation from structural reforms, such as additional lending. At the same time, our domestic law says very strictly that the budget must be at least in structural balance, which means that the nominal deficit can only be drawn up to cover the nominal deficit, if the structural balance allows for and maybe also for financing operations, if it does not change the budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U70	Thank you. As I said, the European rules are indeed less stringent than the Estonian law. Estonia has knowingly maintained a strict principle of budgetary balance. This is firstly because it has been one of the very clear strengths of our economic environment, because we have not had much of our budget pie to pay off on an ongoing basis to serve old loans. Secondly, we have had a fundamental view of not living at the expense of the future. Thirdly, we know that those countries that have taken very much credit have always done so in good faith. All of them have said that this loan can only be used for investments. For other things, by the way, no loans can be taken in Estonia as investments, at least the state cannot. Of course, loans have still been made for investments, but we remember well what happened to those countries that have opened this Pandora box, for example in 2009, and how difficult it was for them to get out of this August later. It is true, of course, that since the monetary affairs of the Estonian state have been kept in very good order, this gives the opportunity to live quite cool for quite a few years even when fiscal discipline is no longer maintained. Yeah, well, it's like a very well-managed porcelain kid, that if you let an elephant get in there, there's gonna be some big changes, but it's not sure if these changes are expected for the environment of this store.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U71	Martin Helme, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U72	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I'd cool off your zeal for structural balance. Umberto Eco's "Roosi" was an unfortunate girl who was sent to the stake, and even before she knew it herself, she was told that it was burnt meat. This law of structural balance, I suggest, is also burnt meat. I would cool off your drive again, and I will come back to the previous question once. Building a border or building a protective polygon is not an investment in the classical sense of that word. The investment should bring back the money, but these things are the most common public expenditure. In fact, our budget is not structurally positive this year either. It's like this on paper right now, but not really. Good for you. But here's the question. The Estonian state's own contribution to the construction of Rail Baltic should be 400 million euros. Where did the outgoing government intend to take that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U73	Thank you. First of all, I categorically disagree that building a state border is not an investment. Of course, there is an investment because if we have a better guarded and secure eastern border, it will earn a dividend, even for our security alone. Moreover, a very practical part of this is the investment in X-ray machines set up by the Tax and Customs Board on the border. This brings tens of millions of euros to the state budget over the years because it reduces smuggling opportunities. The development of a garden with sensors, which the Minister of the Interior spoke about before, significantly reduces the possibilities for smuggling and improves the revenue from the state budget. I also absolutely do not agree with it, as investments in defence would simply be a normal cost. On the contrary, the dividend of investment in national defence is our greatest value, and it is our freedom. In any case, it is worth investing in national defence and it is also worth doing national defence spending in a broader sense. These are investments, both in terms of budget classification and, in essence, in any case. Your question was about Rail Baltic. This period of government, or more specifically, until the end of the parliamentary election period, i.e. until 2019, the country's budget strategy, together with the euro instruments, provides for a total of €250 million in circa. This money is available there and covers all the construction and design needs (mainly design and preliminary work) until 2019. The need for the coming years can be foreseen in the next country's budgetary strategies for each specific year. Yes, I can say that we are handing over to the next government a country's budgetary strategy, where Rail Baltic has about EUR 250 million in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U74	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Thank you, Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir! Thank you, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U75	Honourable Riigikogu! We'll start the Wednesday session on the 8th working week. Does anyone want to hand over any drafts or inquiries? No, I don't. Incoming check, please! 74 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U76	Our first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. We are going to the final vote, as proposed by the lead committee. I am voting on the draft law amending the Waste Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 257. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft act and 4 against, with one abstention. The law amending the Waste Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U77	The second reading of the draft law 258 on the amendment of the matrimonial property register initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws (transfer of the register of marriage property and the making of entries) begins. Waitress of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U78	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U79	Sorry, Küllik's Hatter! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U80	Thank you. On 17 October, the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee met almost in its entirety; only Mark Soosaar was absent. It was noted that no amendments were received by 28 September, when the deadline for tabling amendments was set. In so far as I am saying, outside the context, that the draft will transfer the competence to make entries in the matrimonial property register from the Real Estate Department to notaries and civil status officers. This means that all necessary entries can be made in the register on the same day and do not have to change to us for several weeks. The Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously took two decisions: to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda by 16 November and to propose that the second reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U81	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. On a proposal from the lead committee, the second reading of the draft 258 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U82	The second reading of the draft law amending the Gambling Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Waitress, Chairman of the Economic Commission, Toomas Kivimägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U83	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As a reminder, the amendment of § 100 of the Gambling Act was initiated at the initiative of the Government of the Republic. The main content of this draft was to allow criminal penalties for betting fraud as a preventive measure. The reason why this amendment proved necessary was precisely one of the decisions of the Tallinn Circuit Court, where, given the so-called'speciality principle', it was not considered possible to impose criminal penalties on a particular case, precisely because the current rule of misdemeanour did not allow it. That is why the Government of the Republic initiated this draft. The members of the Riigikogu did not submit any amendments to the draft, but two amendments were tabled by the Economic Committee. The first of these reads as follows: 'paragraph 2 (5) is supplemented by paragraph 31 as follows: 'Lottery whose winning fund is worth up to EUR 1000 and is organised on a ship carrying passengers crossing the national border, registered in the Estonian ship register. 'I also presented this amendment at first reading in this Chamber. This proposal is motivated by the fact that, in accordance with the legislator's will, it came into force. a from 1 January, a provision of the Gambling Act allowing lotteries to be organised with a winning fund of less than EUR 1000 only once a week. This change, in turn, was driven by the fact that, if this week was not restricted, several organisers of online lotteries started to make lotteries with a winning fund of less than EUR 1000 a day, even though the legislator's idea was, in fact, that these lotteries, such as those organised at fairs and which have a winning fund of less than EUR 1000, would not be subject to the provisions of the Gambling Act. The legislator specifically overlooked the fact that, for example, Tallink ships also operate lotteries with a winning fund of less than EUR 1000. These ships travel several times a day and these lotteries are also organized several times a day. This means that it is not possible to arrange such lotteries on Tallink ships from 1 January 2016. The Committee on Economic Affairs considered that this was not justified. Nor was it the will of the legislator when he made this change, limiting the possibility of organising lotteries. That is why this amendment has now been made. I repeat, it concerns lotteries with a winning fund value of up to 1000 euros, which are held on a ship carrying passengers over the state's borders in the Estonian ship register. It is also important to note that this restriction currently applies only to ships flying the flag of Estonia. Tallink's good competitors, Viking Line and Eckerö Line, are also now able to organise such lotteries several times a day. With regard to this point, the following point has also been slightly amended: 'For playing Toto by a person who affected or had the opportunity to influence the occurrence of the predicted event, the absence or the manner in which it occurred and, in the absence of the offence set out in § 209 of the Penal Code, a fine of up to 20 fine units shall be punishable. ' This is actually the original legislative amendment initiated by the Government of the Republic. Just as a remargina, what's the maximum penalty for betting today? That's 20 x 4, that's 80 euros. This current penalty rate is certainly not proportionate to the risk posed by betting, above all, by the threat to fair sport. I've even used the expression that betting is the death of sport. I very much hope that the legislator will support this amendment. The second amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs reads as follows: 'Paragraph 9 (7) is supplemented by the following wording: 'Toto, the result of which depends on the lottery outcome, cannot be arranged. ' The right to organise lotteries in Estonia is currently limited to a public limited-liability company whose shares are held by the Estonian State, with the exception of lotteries with a winning fund of less than 1000 euros, and with the exception of commercial lotteries with a winning fund of up to 10000 euros. Only AS Eesti Loto has the right to organise all other lotteries, all of which belong to the Estonian state. In the Western world, however, a number of so-called gambling operators have emerged, organising lotteries under the totoe label. They offer people to predict what the lottery results are, and then they pay these fortune tellers maybe even the same prize as Eesti Loto. They ask, for example, to predict the following winning numbers of Keno Loto. What is the important difference here, and why is it to be regulated? In particular, if the income from tickets sold is taxed at 18% in the case of lotteries, the tax rate for totos is 5%, with the amount to be taxed as follows: bids made less winnings paid out. Clearly, this is unfair competition, which results in a huge loss of tax revenue for the state, even if the winnings paid out are equivalent. I recognise that there is no such activity on a massive scale in Estonia, but given that this problem has arisen in several Western European countries, it is reasonable for us to prevent it and therefore make a legislative amendment. The initiator of this change is AS Eesti Loto. Secondly, one more thing that distinguishes the cost of organising totoes and lotteries. If, for example, the lottery operator has to bear the costs of drawing lots and the costs of printing and distributing tickets, if these same numbers are predicted to be played with a toto, then the toto operator does not have that obligation. Once again, since the concepts of lottery and toto can be interpreted in quite a number of ways, that lottery is a game whose outcome depends on chance (e.g. classical Keno Lotto and Viking Lotto), the classic example of toto is sports prophecy (e.g. Triobet is a toto operator). The following decisions were taken at the meeting of the Economic Commission: First, it was decided to propose that the draft be sent to plenary for second reading by 16 November 2016 (the decision was consensual), second, that the second reading should be closed (the decision was also consensual), third, that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed, 23 November 2016 (the decision was also consensual), and fourth, that the draft be put to the final vote (as well as a consensual decision). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U84	Questions for the waitress. Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U85	Thank you! Honourable waitress! If I heard correctly, you mentioned the principle of speciality at first. I admit I didn't understand what that means. Please explain in a few words!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U86	Thank you. Luckily, I've brought this piece of paper. In fact, in the same judgment of the district court, where it was found that a section of the scam cannot be applied to a particular case, the following statement was given as a justification: the misdemeanour may, despite the provisions of § 3 (5) of the Penal Code, be excluded from the composition of the crime, provided that those rules are specific and that the composition of the misdemeanour is a special rule. Speciality in this context means a significant identity of two norms, with one of these norms being accompanied by a special/additional feature: if it is clear in the event of an overlap of the subject of regulation that the law considers the composition of misdemeanour to be a specific rule, the latter, rather than the formation of the crime, will apply. It is important to note that this decision was also appealed, but the Supreme Court refused to accept it. So we have reason to believe and assume that the judgment of the same circuit court is a precedent for making the following decisions. Consequently, I think it makes sense to clarify this provision of law. Once again, the current maximum penalty rate for betting, EUR 80, is certainly not proportionate to the risk and risk posed by this offence or its weight.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U87	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U88	Thank you. Dear waitress, Well, that's understandable, but you didn't touch on one topic. I mean the Internet-based lotteries, and if you want to, so are the Totos. We have an Estonian Loto monopoly, except for smaller lotteries. We believe that we collect taxes from all lotteries that take place on Estonia's territory. However, there are more and more Internet lotts, people playing them from computers on Estonian territory, perhaps Estonian citizens and residents of Estonia. What legal regime currently includes the lotteries or totos that can be played on the territory of Estonia, but whose entire set of rules, taxation and everything else comes from somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U89	Thank you for your question. Indeed, in today's online world, it is certainly one of the... Maybe it's not a risk, but it's a reality that needs to be taken into account. However, in the Estonian legal area, for example, the laws that have been adopted apply to the organization of lotteries. They also apply to other organisers, to the organisers of the totos. I don't think you've looked at these pages on the Internet. But I've noticed that if you enter one portal or another, at the very beginning, the Tax and Customs Board note will appear on the screen, stating that the Gambling Act does not allow him to move and operate here. Which means that on Estonian territory these portals are not able to offer illegal competition to lottery organisers. It's a separate issue when you're dealing with things like this abroad. There the Estonian Tax and Customs Board's injunction does not apply. It's a lot more complicated than that. But on Estonian territory there are dozens, if not hundreds, of these pages on this blacklist. They're blocked. This means that the opportunity to predict lottery results when playing toto on Estonian territory has been taken away. But I repeat, there is, of course, no limit to being taken abroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U90	Thank you, Toomas Kivimägi! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled, both from the Committee on Economic Affairs. Dear Riigikogu, the second reading of bill 260 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U91	The second reading of the draft Act 256 amending the Employment Working Conditions Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U92	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The processing of the draft Act amending the Working Conditions of Workers Posted to Estonia and other laws was notified to the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions, the Central Organisation of Labour Associations (TALO), the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Employers' Confederation and asked them to submit their proposals for the draft and to attend the committee meeting. The Estonian Employers' Confederation announced that there were no proposals and that they would not participate in the hearing. Peep Peterson, Chairman of the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions, and Ago Tuuling, Chairman of the Management Board of the Confederation of Workers' Confederations, took part in the meeting of the Social Committee on 12 September. The first reading took place on 21 September and the deadline for tabling amendments was 5 October. No amendments were tabled at that time. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at its meetings on 10 and 25 October and on 8 and 14 November. On 10 October, Maret Maripuu, Director-General of the Labour Inspectorate, had been invited to the meeting to present the draft proposal of the Labour Inspectorate. The main concern of the Labour Inspectorate was that it would not be possible to monitor the working conditions and environment of posted workers more effectively as there is no information on the location of posted workers. The Commission proposed to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Labour Inspectorate that the employer of the worker posted to Estonia should submit to the Labour Inspectorate by e-mail information about the posting and the posted worker. At its meeting on 8 November, the Social Affairs Committee, together with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Social Affairs, discussed a letter from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal, which proposed to clarify the scope of the draft. The Social Affairs Committee decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 16 November 2016 and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U93	Question to the Commission's waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have mentioned, and the explanatory memorandum also states, that the Commission has proposed to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Labour Inspectorate that a proposal be drawn up together. Would you clarify what will be the content of this proposal and what is the deadline for the Labour Inspectorate to really do better in monitoring?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U95	Thank you for a very good question. This proposal has already been incorporated into the law, and today it is going to be voted on here. We will give the Labour Inspectorate the opportunity to supervise and we will also make an obligation (i.e. Amendment 2) to resolve this problem. At the moment, the Labour Inspectorate cannot verify that the workers sent here are properly put to work and that safety at work is in order.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U96	Thank you, Aivar Chef! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. Four amendments to the draft have been tabled and all of them have been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs itself, so of course they are fully taken into account. The first, second, third and fourth amendments. The second reading of bill 256 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U97	The second reading of the Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U98	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the State Pension Insurance Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 28 September 2016. The first reading took place on 25 October and was closed. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 3 November and three amendments were tabled at that time. The Commission turned to the Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations and to the Committee on Older Age Policy for an opinion. The draft opinion was sent by the Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations. According to the opinion submitted, the Association of Estonian Pensioner Associations supports the support of pensioners living alone. They confirmed in their opinion that they were involved in this work during the drafting phase. The Committee on Older People's Policy did not deliver an opinion on the draft. After completion of the first reading of the draft, the Committee on Social Affairs met at two meetings to discuss the draft and prepare the second reading: on 8 and 14 November. Lidia Soontak, Head Specialist of the Social Security Department and Lily Mals, Legal Adviser to the Legal and Human Resources Department, participated in the discussions of the amendments. The draft has made linguistic and regulatory improvements that are underlined in the text. The Social Affairs Committee decided at its meeting on 8 November 2016 to send the draft to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 16 November. The Commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading of the draft. The Commission also decided that, once the second reading of the draft was completed on 16 November, the draft should be sent to the third reading by 23 November and put to the final vote. At its meeting on 14 November, the procedural documents for the second reading of the draft were approved. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U99	Questions for the waitress. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The bill speaks of support that a person does not have to apply for. Let me give you an example. When assessing a person's ability to work, he or she must make a tick to the place where he or she is asked if he or she wishes to receive a disability allowance. However, we are now saying that people do not have to apply for the benefit of a single pensioner, but are paid to everyone who has lived alone for a certain period of time. I'm very interested in the reasoning. Why, on one occasion, are we very categorically demanding that a person should apply and, on the other, not? In general, there has been an approach that needs to be applied for in order to receive public support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U101	Thank you for a very good question, Monika. It's very simple. I think that our common goal is less bureaucracy and less bureaucracy. No one should go anywhere and make any request if we have very clearly written in the law, under what conditions it is possible to obtain this support at all. We are giving support to those pensioners who live alone, who may not themselves be able to do very well and who very much need this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U102	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U103	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! My question is on the same subject. What are the measures to check whether a person really lives at this address and whether he lives there alone? As politicians, we know that during the election campaign, although everything has to be registered by 1 August, there is a great danger and no one wants to show their actual place of residence. Besides, why is the IRL now retreating from its right-wing worldview? A person should apply for help himself; the state should not go to offer assistance itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U104	I do not know whether this notion of whether a person must apply for something or not is an expression of the right, the left or the middle position. This draft makes it very clear that the statistical average pension calculated according to Statistics Estonia's data for the previous year is multiplied by 1.2. That's the line. Whose pension is below this limit and who live alone will receive this allowance. How is it controlled? To be checked by the check-in form contained in the register. It is always possible to cheat and commit a crime, but the laws of the Estonian state apply to everyone. Yes, if the family has two apartments, one spouse writes in one and the other, and if both of them have a lower pension than the 470 euros promised next year, then it really is. If, because of the fear of some people suddenly acting like this, we would create a control mechanism that would cost about as much as we pay people this support, I think it would not be fair. It is better that, if there was an opportunity to support pensioners living alone, this grant would reach them as much as possible, rather than go to the officials who would start to control this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U105	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm just confused, and I don't understand how drafts coming from one ministry apply the same principle in different ways. In one case, it is said that under no circumstances can the aid be paid if the tick is not in the right box. In another case, it is said that it is so nice if you do not have to apply that we still give it to everyone. That's it. My question is about this control period, which runs from 1 April to 30 September. It is generally said that the law must be unambiguous, understandable and understandable. Such a period, from 1 April to 30 September, shall not be used anywhere else. This is a new period that has been introduced. For what reasons is the period from 1 April to 30 September chosen for the reference period?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U107	For very simple reasons: we want to start paying for this support as early as next year. Your proposal for a correction stipulated that the inspection should last a year. Then, in 2017, no single-living pensioner would receive this support. That's one side of it. The other half is why this period starts on 1 April. There's gotta be a period. It makes sense there can't be just one date. April 1, as we all know, has always been a great day for pensioners, because their pension has then risen. At this point, Estonia's average statistical pension is also revealed. Six months is a long enough time to see if people don't use the same-day vanger when they sign in and out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U108	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! To the extent that, when the Commission or somewhere else was preparing this draft, there was such an understanding that this kind of support would be best shared by the local government, which is actually closest to people, knows their needs, knows who lives alone, who does not live, and knows what the real situation is? Was that even the point of considering?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U110	Thank you for a good question. I must admit that this was not the subject of my memory in the Committee on Social Affairs. That's for two reasons. If we give local authorities a commitment, we must also give the money needed to fulfil the obligation. If there is an amount in the budget for the benefit of pensioners living alone, any cost that goes to compensate for the work of officials means money that does not actually reach those for whom it is intended. It's just the way it is. I would remind you that, when there was a first reading in this Chamber, all the groups supported this draft. At that time, it was not an issue of whether this task should be assigned to local governments. If, today, any social obligation is imposed on local authorities, a letter must always be sent from the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Municipalities, in which it is annoyed that they will be given responsibilities, but where there will be money to cover them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U111	Thank you, good Chairman. Good chairman of the committee! I think my penguin is trying to say that the Riigikogu is about to go this way, that it does not treat all those in need equally. That's not fair. All aid applicants should be treated equally, but a completely different tactic is being used now. Another problem is control. We know very well that there are people for whom disability pension is an extra income. This group of people, unfortunately, needs support, but in fact they do not have a basis for paying them because of physical or mental health. But no one is involved in this control, there is such an informed exchange of bottom-up papers, the state is tolerating it and watching. Is that normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U112	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U113	Thank you. This question has nothing to do with this bill; it applies to another draft. One side is the questions that are being asked here today, which are about what the Ministry of Social Affairs is doing. We are the legislators here, and we are the guarantors of the law. But today we still have a very clear position: less bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U114	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U115	Honorable manager! Respectable waitress! I know that I will repeat the question that sounded in this hall, not from my mouth, even at first reading, but that is an important question. What is the connection between this bill and the holding of municipal elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U116	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U117	Thank you, Aivar Chef! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. Four amendments have been tabled for 300 seats. The first is from Monika Haukanõmme and has not been taken into account, but under § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act it is not to be voted on. The second amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. The third is from the Social Affairs Committee, which has been fully taken into account. The fourth is from Monika Haukanõmme, which has been disregarded, but this amendment has been struck by the same fate as the first proposal. The 300th second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U118	The second reading of the draft State Budget Act 2017 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The rapporteur is Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U119	Hi! I'm looking at a hall that's kind of unfamiliarly empty. The state budget for 2017 is in front of you, and there will be a second reading. Politically, this reading takes place in a somewhat different situation than at the time of the budget transfer. That is probably why the hall is so empty now. In the meantime, so much has changed that the IRL and the Social Democrats have begun to form a government with the Centre Party. I haven't figured out whether or not with the Free Party. Didn't you? Got it. In short, they're denying it from this side. But that's it. I'm gonna say it's gonna be a short night. There are no thousands of amendments; no one is going to implement the obstruction. But I recall the main objectives of this budget. At the end of September, the budget was handed over by the Reform Party, a Social Democrat came to the hall, hello, Rainer! The Government of the IRL and the Government of the IRL. The purpose of this budget is to strengthen Estonia's security, promote economic growth, reduce taxes on labour, support people with lower incomes, further assist families with children and implement the reform of the state and local governments. This budget supports public and administrative reform. This budget brings defence costs to the highest level ever and supports the construction of the border. The next year's budget will reduce labour taxes and increase people's tax-free income to EUR 180, introduce a grant of EUR 300 for a third child, and grant of EUR 115 for pensioners living alone. The Pay Fund for Social Welfare Workers, Higher Education Cultural Workers and Internal Security Workers will grow by 3.3% next year. The increase in teachers' payroll amounts to 4.6%. The budget contributes to the ambition of raising teachers' salaries to 120% of the average wage. I am pleased that this objective has not been called into question by the coalition that is being created. Up until now, raising teachers' salaries to 120% of the average wage has been the only thing the negotiators have said. If you borrow words from good former partners, your pay rise will continue to stagnate. Next year, the share of external grants in the state budget will be 961 million euros, accounting for nearly 10% of the state budget expenditure. EUR 81 million is foreseen for national co-financing. The funds are also allocated to continue the construction of the Tartu road in Tallinn. This budget has been made in line with the principles of responsible budgeting and is in a structural surplus of 0.2%. This means that this budget does not live at the expense of the future. Over the last few weeks, borrowing from the state has become a serious debate. Neither has the Reform Party ever been directly opposed to borrowing unless borrowing becomes an end in itself. For investments, the Reform Party has never been against a loan for the realisation of a particular project. However, I will remind everyone of the words of Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, published today in Postimees: 'If this [economy] were to be stimulated in the short term, the pressure on wages would increase, the profitability of companies would be even more at risk. The lower the profitability, the lower the investment potential of companies and the lower the growth potential in the future. [---] Our [Bank of Estonia] view is that it is right to target the budgetary balance in the medium term, because our economy is more volatile than that of many other European countries, which is why we need more buffers than any other country. ' I believe that this is a pretty strong message to both the Central Party, which has said through the mouth of its prime minister candidate that the budgetary balance is not important as well as a reminder to the IRL, whose members are not in this Chamber, but it will probably reach their ears as well. A few years ago, they actually insisted on entering a balance claim into the constitution. I hope that this principle will continue to be followed. In any case, I assure you that the outgoing coalition will hand over well-managed public finances and a well-designed budget for next year. The discussion of the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2017 initiated by the Government of the Republic was held in the Riigikogu's plenary session. 26 October 2008 and the first reading of the draft was completed. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 9 November and the Commission discussed the draft on 27 October and 10 and 14 November. During the process, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has listened to all the ministers in the field in order to get a detailed overview of the budgets for the areas of government. Maris Lauri, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar, Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants and Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur participated in Commission meetings between the first and second readings. Amendments now received. By the deadline of 9 November, the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups tabled 23 amendments. The explanations of the amendments are set out in the list of amendments. The Committee on Finance itself drafted one amendment which provides for the following major substantive changes. Firstly, the costs of the Presidency of the European Union are distributed by ministry. It is known that the State Chancellery is the state office which coordinates the entire Presidency of the European Union. Secondly, the minimum wage for cultural workers is set at EUR 942. The third important thing is that the Government of the Republic reserves EUR 200000 for the volleyball team who reached the European Championship final in Poland. The remaining proposals made by the Commission, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, are rather technical, are sectoral redeployments and clarifications and additions to the text. In many respects, the amendments received from the political groups of the Riigikogu, the EKRE and the Free Party have been ignored by the committee because of the inadequacy of the sources of cover. I will describe these proposals, as well as the sources of cover for which various sums were to be redeployed. The amendments concerned additional funding for public roads, additional transitional payments in agriculture, support for voluntary rescue systems, improved access to rehabilitation services, increased basic R &amp; D funding, adjustments to the pay levels of teachers and cultural staff, support for youth centres of interest, allocation of resources to include the capacity of the prosecutor's office and the criminal police, and various other support for different organisations. As a source of cover, the reserve of the Government of the Republic, the funds allocated to the State Chancellery for the organisation of the 'Estonian Republic 100', the operating costs of the Office of the President, the costs of broadcasting, the allocations to Rail Baltic and the reduction of the cost of the school network programme were proposed. A reduction in the cost of funding parties was also proposed. As I said, the Commission did not support any of the proposals put forward by the political groups. The Commission supported the above-mentioned amendment, which it itself had tabled. After all these discussions and voting on the amendments, the Commission made the following consensual decisions: to send the draft to the plenary of the Riigikogu by today, 16 November, with a proposal to close the second reading and to set the deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 30 November, at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. I would point out that one member of the Riigikogu's Finance Committee opposed the last proposal, but 10 were in favour of it. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U120	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! The slightness of your introduction is my question as to how the length of the night and the number of amendments are linked. But, a little more seriously, we are dealing with one of the most important or very important documents that will be adopted here in a year. Comments from the Ministry also came to the amendments. In view of the fact that the state budget is very difficult to read, it may indeed be that the sources of cover have also been searched for on the line from which you cannot take it, or that something has been placed on the line where it is not quite right to put it. But most of the questions here are still political. Why is there no minister before us? The rules of procedure allow this. The Commission could have asked the Minister to come here, who, unlike you, apparently hopes to continue to take political responsibility for this budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U122	Until now, I bear the political responsibility for this budget and do it with a completely straight back. As I said, this is the state budget agreed between the Reform Party, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Social Democrats, which is here today at second reading. Time will show whether something changes between second reading and third reading. I think your comment on my introduction may not have been the most important, but the state budget is really the most important document. My statement that there is no waiting for a long night today, as no amendments have been tabled in hundreds, was perhaps also an assessment of how seriously some of the MPs are taking up the state budget in this large hall. As regards the Minister's participation in today's debate, we also talked about this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. A good colleague on your right has proposed this, Mr Andres Ammas. So far, after the completion of the first reading of the budget in Parliament, there has been such a logic that the government has done its job, ministers have agreed on a draft budget, they have submitted it to the Riigikogu, and the executive power will no longer intervene in this process if it has no proposals of its own. It was also the position of the Minister that he has handed over the budget, and now the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as the lead committee, is handling it and presenting it to the large Chamber. As regards the separation of powers, its role in this process would be rather questionable, because what could be that role then? If you wish to take this discussion from a constitutional point of view, I think this debate could be held. I'm sure Jüri Adams has his positions. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has decided that we are not going to bring along, because we are not going to be able to order the Minister of Finance to the second-reading debate. Andres Ammas, to put it perfectly formalistically, did not actually present us with such a proposal in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U123	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U124	Honorable manager! Respectable waitress! My question, too, is based on your introduction. You found that this budget is good for teachers and that there is a decisive move towards the target of having a salary of 120% of the average wage in the country. As the overall wage increase in the country is faster than the increase in the salaries of the teachers planned in the draft budget, in fact, be honest, the lag behind in moving towards this goal is increasing. Yes, I admit, if the wage increase were zero, this would be even greater, but in fact, this small increase in teachers' wages will not bring us much closer to the target of 120% of the average wage. Please comment on your claim in more detail!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U125	Thank you. Firstly, the Teachers' Pay Fund will grow by 4.6% next year, at an early pace compared to the wages of other state-paid workers. Secondly, the real pay of teachers can also grow through internal reforms. We spoke to the Minister of Education and Research in the Commission. The funds for increasing the payroll fund and real wage growth will be more than the 4.6% foreseen in the budget. Thirdly, as I hope you will remember, it would help to increase teachers' pay if the number of students finally became clear. As the Minister in the Commission explained, the second half of November should show the number of students, resulting in new estimates, which could in turn allow teachers to raise their pay even more than this particular 4.6%. It can therefore be said that, if we hold a debate again in about a year's time, whatever position someone is in, the increase in teachers' pay is likely to have been much greater in the combined effect of all these changes, reforms and clarifications mentioned above.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U126	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The amendments have been assessed by the Ministry of Finance in the negative and have mostly been accompanied by a two-phrase justification. My question concerns doctoral student support, on which the Ministry of Finance has clearly stated that the place proposed as a source of cover is wrong. Is and how much did the Commission even discuss the issue of doctoral student support? After all, this is one of the key issues for our country's future development, how much will be coming to the labour market with a doctorate, well-educated people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U128	Thank you. The doctoral grant last year increased by 10%. I think the principle of increasing this support is absolutely right. You offered to cover this by reducing the reserve of the Government of the Republic. That's exactly what I was referring to earlier. An increase in doctoral allowance is not a one-off cost. This is the cost of the so-called state budget base and the source of cover should be able to cover it in the long term. This is the reason why the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U129	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U130	Thank you, good Chairman. Good chairman of the committee! A year ago, when the Free Party handled the budget for the first time, you were so willing and made a promise that if the idea had a complexion, the Commission would help to find adequate sources of cover. As we have said, we cannot get the detailed content of each line of the budget from anywhere, we cannot see it, at least it is not seen by the simple members of the Riigikogu. Amendment 9 should be included in this category. The Chancellor of Justice has turned to the Riigikogu with a question of constitutional intrusiveness, because Estonian landowners are not treated fairly. Owners of restricted lands are kept in the dark for 8 to 9 years. It doesn't make sense, it violates the Constitution. Why is the Commission not responsible for finding a solution to the breach of the Constitution together?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U131	Thank you. On this subject, we spoke to Minister Marko Pomerants of the Environment in the Commission. He said that the need to acquire land in financial terms was EUR 5 million, and you proposed to allocate EUR 20 million. This relatively bold offer also made the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs a little, let us say, cautious. If so much money is allocated to buy land, it may not give the right signal to this market and industry. The Minister of the Environment mentioned this amount. The specific proposal envisaged a reduction in the operating costs of the Government of the Republic in order to support land purchases. These costs include, for example, the property reform reserve fund, grants to local authorities, as well as educational expenditure. I'm talking about a sub-classification of the Government's operating expenses. It was not possible to understand the proposal if you would even accept that this amount could be EUR 20 million, which particular line you would like to take away the money from.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U132	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U133	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also briefly talk about the legibility of this budget. One of the sources we offered was Rail Baltic. The Ministry replied that the money cannot be touched because it is euro money. Only if we look at § 1 of the bill, which is written off the line, then Rail from Baltic doesn't even say syllables. We see some amounts in the explanatory memorandum, but it does not say how much of it is self-financing and how much foreign money. But that's it. We in the Commission had a proposal to reduce the operating costs of the President's Office, both the salaries of the staff and, let us say, the benefits of the presidents in retirement. The answer of the Ministry of Finance was that the benefits already granted cannot be taken away or reduced. Maybe if I could get into government for a month and distribute all the money, then the next government will never be able to take back another cent. How do you comment on that logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U134	Thank you. If you went to work at the Office of the President of the Republic and turned the taps off to all previous presidents who have had certain benefits prescribed by law after leaving office, I think you would have quite a lot of justification for the Estonian public. Of course, the president could probably hire you as the head of the office so you could start doing that kind of ventilation. But I don't think that makes much sense. If the people who have served the Estonian state as president have earned the benefits guaranteed by the law when they resign, then when the head of the office of the President starts to delete them, it does not seem to me to be a reasonable plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U135	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It would probably not be quite right for us to leave the negotiations for the formation of a new government and their budgetary implications completely untouched today. It has been heard that there is now a strong conflict in the negotiations about whether its principles must be abandoned and, unfortunately, lost by the IRL, which had previously stood up for lowering the tax burden, and the new government, in particular, becomes a tax authority or must abandon its principles in the Centre Party. If the plan to introduce sugar tax and car tax and to increase income tax and social tax, which has spilled out of negotiations, were to materialise, what effect will this have on the taxpayer next year? How does this even fit in with the principle of the budget before us, which you referred to as the principle of reducing labour taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U137	Thank you. Both the Reform Party and the IRL have considered the lowering of labour taxes to be important over time. The Fatherland programme since 1992 clearly states that labour taxes should be reduced and consumption taxes increased. This principle has been maintained by the outgoing government and, on this basis, has been presented and brought before you the budget for the following year. IRL is certainly in an awkward position on this issue. If so far the reduction of labour taxes has been protected, then now, I understand, the plan is to cancel the reduction of social taxes from a date. This means directly increasing the tax burden on labour. If others want to raise income tax to cover their promises, then it is again the opposite of what has been promised and what policies have been stood for in previous years by the government. The future will show you how it's finally going. I certainly don't think that's right. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has repeatedly been recommended by the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Employers and other business organisations to reduce labour taxes. The Minister of Finance of the IRL knows this very well. I believe that the IRL has quite a lot of explaining to its constituents, and also to businesses, if the tax burden on labour is to be increased now, after the change of government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U138	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U139	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! You didn't answer one part of my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U140	This has to do with why you have withdrawn from the promise you made last year in front of this hall. Can it really be said that since the proposal has been tabled by the opposition party, you will automatically reject it, and you will not negotiate the amount or sources of cover, even though you promised it last year and said that this is not the way we have decided? Where's the responsibility? I absolutely don't understand it. I'm asking for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U141	Okay. What was that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U142	Where there's responsibility or where you don't understand at all? [[K. Hatter's line from the hall.]] I do not agree with the criticism that a member of the Riigikogu does not receive information. If a member of the Riigikogu, the Monetary Commission or any member of the committee wishes to receive information about the contents of the budget, and if no one answers to him from the Ministry of Finance, let him come and knock at my door. So I'm gonna take him to the person who says he's not gonna answer or explain what's behind one budget line or another. That is certainly not the right criticism. On this, as if I had already promised to support one or the other proposal in advance, 'blankona', I say that I certainly have not promised it. I have said that if the Committee on Monetary Affairs has received a proposal from either a member of the opposition or a member of the coalition, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will first look at whether it is financially sustainable and justified and then take a decision. I disagree with your criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U143	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U144	What was that number?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns the amendment with which we wanted to improve access to rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U146	This is proposal number 21. We have an operational capacity reform. If a person with reduced work ability, such as a wheelchair, goes to work, he or she automatically becomes more in need of rehabilitation. The availability of rehabilitation is below any accounting. People wait in very long order and receive a very small amount of service. This is detrimental to their health and may also lead to the failure of the work capacity reform to achieve the objective that was set. Here comes my question. Please present the debate around this amendment. On what grounds was it not supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U147	The Unemployment Insurance Fund has been offering a service of professional rehabilitation since this year. This is intended for people, after all, you said that this is Amendment 21, who have a reduced capacity for work and who need the help of various specialists to get started and continue working. The Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund already pays a travel and accommodation allowance to the person for every day he or she receives this service, which the person can use to cover the costs of these activities. For this purpose, the additional allocation of EUR 600000 was not considered justified by the majority that existed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at the time. So I can comment on that. The members of the Centre Party, the Social Democratic Party and the IRL opposed this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U148	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U149	Honorable manager! Respectable waitress! A reduction in the funding of political parties has been identified as a possible source of cover for a number of free parties as well as for the EERE amendments. The justification given by the Ministry of Finance for not being able to do so is that the funding of political parties has remained at the same level for ten years. How can we understand this claim? Why is money that has been on the same level for ten years not a source of cover? How do you understand that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U150	Thank you. This should probably be asked by the Minister for Finance, who sent this opinion to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Monetary Affairs also opposed this proposal by the Social Democrats and the members of the Centre Party and the IRL.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U151	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U152	Thank you. We're getting back to my last question. Once the country has come up with some kind of benefit, it seems impossible to start reducing it. Before I asked for a comment on the position of the Ministry of Finance that if some kind of benefit has been given, it cannot be taken away because it has already been promised to people. Whether it's reasonable or not, it's an issue. Whether we're holding up a farm or not, that's the issue. I find it very unreasonable. I believe that the law does not oblige us to do so either, because the law speaks of reasonable costs. But my question is still: how do you comment, do we really have to believe that if someone's ever been allowed a good, then you can't take it back again and the budget is locked?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U153	Thank you. Martin, you know that we in the Republic of Estonia have laws that the Riigikogu itself has adopted. Among other things, he has also adopted the President of the Republic's Official Benefits Act. If you come back to your first question, even if you were director of the president's office, I don't think it makes any sense to break the law. First we need to change the law, let's start there. If you have a good idea that the President's benefits could be increased, reduced or kept the same, then it should be discussed here in Parliament and then, according to the law, budget decisions can be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U154	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I cannot in any way be satisfied with the answers from the Ministry of Finance as to why one, two or three amendments do not fit at all. In particular, I am interested in the student song festival Gaudeamus. I understand that the sources of the amendments requiring very large sums of money were obviously not correctly found, because we may not have understood it, but Gaudeamus would need EUR 100000 in 2017, so that he could start preparing this great event. It has been pushed off by the Ministry of Culture, rejected by the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Ministry of Education and Research. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in principle, discuss the need for us to organise Gaudeamus?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U156	Thank you. I have spoken to both the Minister of Education and Research and the Chairman of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. I know the Minister of Education and Science was about to find the means to finance Gaudeamus. Now the situation is what it is. For the last few days, this minister is in office. I do not know whether this principle will be followed by the next Minister for Education and Science. The Committee on Culture and its Chairman have certainly supported this idea. I also know that this ball bouncing between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education has really happened. On the basis of how much I have been devoted to this subject, I can say that the parties have certainly a desire to finance this project. There is still time between second and third readings, and maybe Parliament will also find solutions in common harmony. This process is also yet ahead of us to be able to propose amendments once more. But I would like to emphasise once again that this proposal was opposed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs by the members of the Central Party, the Social Democratic Party and the IRL.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U157	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Obviously, my reasoning and the linking of the question with the work capacity reform created such a confusion in your response. Occupational rehabilitation and rehabilitation are absolutely different services. The rehabilitation services mentioned in our proposal are not provided by the unemployment fund, but by the health care service financed by the sickness fund's budget. Did I get it right that the Commission did not really discuss this in substance and on the basis of our proposal? When you discussed occupational rehabilitation, I understand, of course, why a negative decision was made. If you had discussed this through rehabilitation prism, then perhaps the result would have been a different one.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U159	Thank you. I'm sure your point is correct. I'm not gonna argue with that. Then it is also a question of the accuracy, rather, of the information submitted to the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U160	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U161	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! To begin with, I will remark that this shared responsibility for wrongdoing is, of course, sweet, because you can point the finger at the fact that IRL and others are also responsible. But I don't think it's very nice or honest of you. If the pigs are still done together, they should be recognised together. But that's it. One very bad thing we can read out of this is the budget of the Ministry of Defence and the funding of the Defence League. At the beginning of this year, the great forecasters-analysts of the Ministry of Finance were wrong again for the third year in a row. As a result, the amount to be allocated to the Defence League is expected to decrease by EUR 531000. At the same time, we have read that in the programme of the Reform Party, Estonia's defence was one of the main objectives. We also believe that this is important, especially to support volunteers and develop their capacities. How do you assess the impact of a reduction of 531000 euros on Estonia's defence capabilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U162	Thank you. Your starting remark is difficult to make because you didn't refer to any so-called joint political initiative when I put it more politely, unlike you. It's hard to answer, but okay. As far as the Ministry of Defence and defence costs are concerned, they will be at the highest level in the Republic of Estonia in the next year, 2,19%. If the Defence League really has such a fall in money, I believe that it needs to be dealt with and to look for the reasons why this is the case. We did not open the matter in such detail in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U163	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! My question concerns the administration of the Ministry of Culture and the wage increase there. The minimum wage for highly educated cultural workers will rise to EUR 942 per month, right, with redeployments. The average wage increase for the remaining cultural staff with higher education is 2% and the wages for the other employees increase by 1%. The cultural development plan states that the average salary of cultural workers must reach the average level of the Republic. How will such minimal steps progress towards this? Please state your point of view!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U165	Thank you. On this subject, we have also discussed quite thoroughly with the Minister of Culture. His priority in his administration has been to help with this 'lower end' wage growth. You referred to EUR 942 as an average salary for cultural workers. On this point, I say that the steps that the Ministry of Culture has taken to ensure that wages rise on the bottom end have been significant, they have been around 10% a year in 2015 and 2016 and this will also be the case in next year. It has been a priority to raise wages by helping them from below. However, your reference to God is correct: for those who are already on a certain level of pay, the overall increase will eat up this increase in wages, unfortunately, it is true. As such, this budget has been brought before us from the Ministry of Culture, so it is, let's say, the choice of the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U166	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U167	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! I'm sure I've been very polite when I ask, it's just louder words that often help the information get better, because, as we can see in this Chamber, asking too roundly will give you an even more circular answer. But as usual, everything has its own good and faults. I think that this budget also has good points, certainly it does, but there is always a critical need to look at the negative aspects. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, can you list the weakest parts of the budget? Which areas are underfunded? What should be given more attention, or what has not been given enough attention so far, so that the situation can be improved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U168	Thank you. When I look at the reforms of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the reforms that are being carried out there, I can say that they have not been ambitious. I believe there would be much more to do. This is largely due to the neutrality of the two ministers in relation to these reforms. Let's hope it gets better. This is, in my opinion, a place where more can be done. Secondly, as I said in one of the previous responses, the growth of the teachers' payroll will be 4.6% next year, but in reality, with internal reforms, and also with the number of student seats, it is very likely that wage growth will be higher next year. Perhaps more steps could be taken by increasing the payroll here. I will highlight the two things where the budget might need to be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U169	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have been involved in the budgetary process in the Riigikogu a dozen times, and I think I was a member of the Budget Committee for four years. But for the first time, I see that one of the biggest forces in the Riigikogu, the Centre Party, has not made any amendments for the second reading. Moreover, you have said several times that the Centre Party, together with the IRL and the Socialists, has opposed the very good amendments proposed by the EKRE and the Free Party. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U171	Thank you. Good colleague! I think you could address this question directly to the members of the Central Party Group, who have now come to a little more hall than the beginning of the debate. However, it seems that there has also been a participation in the budgetary process in the Chamber. Tarmo Tamm, vice-president of the Good Finance Commission, also nodding. I think that there are some political reasons why the Centre Party has not made proposals. Whether there was little time, they were not able to draft amendments or there was another reason, but there is still room for amendment between second and third readings. Finally, the train for amendments has not yet left.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U172	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will open negotiations. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U173	Honorable manager! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Mikk Mikiver once asked the famous question of the Finn, Haavikko, that if the power is in the hands of the people who have him then. On the basis of the current impressions of this state budget debate, I would like to paraphrase it and ask that if the legislative power in the Republic of Estonia is in the hands of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia according to the Constitution, who will actually have it. In my opinion, the exact answer is that the State Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance has him. At least that's what this whole procedure looks like. The deadline for tabling amendments to be submitted to the second reading of the national budget was 5.15 p.m. a week ago, if I remember correctly. These proposals were received as much as they were received, but by the next morning the Ministry of Finance had worked them all thoroughly and exhaustively. All the pros and cons had been thoroughly considered, whether any of the proposals could be taken into account in full or in part, how the sources of cover have been offered, whether the proposers have pointed out with their ideas the real bottlenecks in our country where more money would be needed or for which money would need to be transferred from somewhere. I admire the Ministry of Finance's ability to do all this titanium work in one night and be ready with answers the next morning. This spring, the Special Committee on State Budget Control presented to you, ladies and gentlemen, in this very hall, the report prepared by Kristjan Kõljala, member of the Reform Party, and as a result of the enormous work, how the procedure of the budget in the Riigikogu could actually follow the opinion of the members of the Riigikogu themselves, so that this process would be transparent and understandable and members of the Riigikogu would also play a role in all this. Nothing has come about from this report. I'll remind you of a few thoughts. For example, that the debate on the country's budgetary strategy could take place in this Chamber. Or, a few days ago, here at issue, the idea that the approval of the annual accounts for the previous year could, however, take place before the additional budget for this year and the state budget for the coming year are dealt with in a logical order. Or that all members of the Riigikogu should be equal when making and processing proposals for so-called regional investments, and that the whole process should be carried out in full transparency and publicity. There were good suggestions, yes. If you forget, you can get to know this wonderful material over and over again. There's nothing going on here. It's getting worse. When the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said several times that all these good proposals were rejected by the possible coalition of the Centre Party, the IRL and the Social Democrats, it cannot be forgotten that for the last 17 years the Reform Party has been the most responsible government party and has also been responsible for the way the budget is handled. May I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U174	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U175	This report should be reviewed. It is worth thinking about how to make the processing of the state budget in this Chamber such that all members of the Riigikogu, even those who are members of the opposition at the time of the proceedings, actually have the opportunity to participate in this procedure on an equal footing with the members of the coalition who have been able to introduce their proposals and ideas quietly into the budget by spending the door of the Ministry of Finance. In this Chamber too, we should seriously consider whether we need a faster increase in teachers' salaries, whether we need to raise the wages of cultural workers. Do we need more transitional support for agriculture? Is enough money still allocated to research and development in the Republic of Estonia? Were doctoral students whose allowance once, when the doctoral student grant was introduced, at the average wage level in Estonia, perhaps now worth more than the minimum wage? Could there be more support for support specialists in education in local governments? Can we actually buy back land under nature conservation? Could rehabilitation be more accessible? Could the regional support for folk culture be higher? Does teaching the Estonian language in our country take place on a sufficient scale? Would it be fair to honour one of the previous commitments made by the previous coalition, together with the proposal for an increase in VAT on tourist accommodation, that a total of EUR 6 million will be granted to rural tourism companies over a period of three years? According to the Minister for Enterprise, the first work option in the budget for the coming year was EUR 2 million in support, and in the course of the subsequent proceedings, all of this was lost somewhere. Not to mention such things as the song festival Gaudeamus, which has already sounded today, or even the Pilistvere Memorial, probably seen at least once in life by everyone in this hall, and its clean-up work. Are these really proposals, if they come from the wrong maker, the opposition, in any case, not okay? It's a disgrace, it shouldn't be that way. Whether in a coalition or in opposition, we should do absolutely everything in our power in this Chamber to change the way and order of the budget in the parliament of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U176	Thank you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U177	Good vice chairman! Good ambassadors! I interpret this document as an attitude towards our fellow citizens, our country, our development. Having been able to follow this process directly for the second year in a row, I do not want to admit that this is an example of how we all view our country and our citizens here in the Riigikogu. It still expresses the attitude of a couple of parties, or coalitions. It is often said that this is not enough. I bring out some amendments to which I would like to draw attention. Proposals Nos 7 and 20 are interlinked. In Vikerraadio this morning, the topic was raised that there will be no tax revenue in Estonia of 35 to 40 million euros, because we will be able to create a company so easily and not pay service providers or the state. Companies are so easy to lose, they come and go. Perhaps we are talking here about tax fraud, which is unfair primarily to those companies that behave honestly with our country. We have also addressed this issue in the context of our enquiries in this Chamber. In order to combat this, additional resources are needed both for the criminal prosecutor's office under the Ministry of the Interior and for the prosecutor's office under the Ministry of Justice. My colleague, Andres Ammas, mentioned the Pilistvere Memorial. It has been a very clear sign from one party, but now it is forgotten because it has found the means to create a new one. For decades, there have been very important events in terms of political life and independence in Estonia. But the country and the government don't care anymore. Proposal No 9. I have to admit, I have never been so upset in this Chamber before, as I have been listening to these answers today. My point is that if the Constitution is already referred to by the Chancellor of Justice, it is our duty to find a solution. Unfortunately, losing the bolt now requires money. Yes, we can argue, it will take 5, 10, 15 or 20 million euros. We must note that there are up to 200 properties on the list, i.e. very many landowners. I do not want to see a situation like that on the Estonian border where landowners are paid below the market price. Our man must also be valued by means of his belongings. That is why I continue to call for a new coalition: if the problem is more widely recognised and if the opposition raises the problem, this is not a reason to reject the proposal, but a reason to cooperate and find solutions. Of course, the 14th proposal. The government is changing. Yesterday we saw basically the same bill for top-up money. The Reform Party, however, is somehow broken. In some committees, he is already playing opposition; in others, he still does not hold a coalition or a vote. I don't know what's gonna happen. Farmers' competitiveness suffers, that is clear. Come to your senses! These are my observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U178	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have reached the second reading of the 2017 state budget. Thus, at least the majority of the members of the Riigikogu have read this document in one way or the other. In the summer of this year, the Special Committee on State Budget Control prepared a report on the possible changes of the Fiscal Policy paradigm in the Estonian parliamentary system. This is a commendable work, but even more grateful is the result of this report. Of the Members of the Riigikogu interviewed, 60% thought that the role of the Riigikogu in shaping the budget was insufficient, and they considered it necessary to increase the role of the Riigikogu. To this end, sectoral committees should be given the opportunity to participate in the annual state budget discussions from the spring onwards. One possible way to provide information and choices is by giving ministers an overview of their field of activity after the approval of the country's budgetary strategy. The role of the Riigikogu in shaping the strategic view of the state's fiscal policy must increase. To this end, the Government of the Republic needs to change the time frame for processing the budget strategy so that the strategy and the choices it makes can be introduced to the sectoral committees of the Riigikogu before the strategy is adopted. Two thirds of those surveyed found that the role of the Ministry of Finance in shaping the state budget, and thus in interfering with sectoral policies, is too great and needs to be balanced. Nearly a third of respondents believe that the role of the Ministry of Finance in shaping the state budget is currently optimal. The Ministry of Finance must, with certain regularity, make budgeting out of the zero base of all government areas. According to the members of the Riigikogu interviewed, the explanatory memorandum to the state budget is uneven and does not provide an adequate overview of the expenditure planned by the state. The approach of ministries is very different; what is mentioned in the law is often not reflected in the explanatory memorandum. The national budget format has often been changed, so it is not possible to compare different periods. These are things that need to be taken into account when preparing the state budget for next year. It's very hard to believe there's an elephant inside if you can't look inside the box. For example, on page 269 of the state budget explanatory memorandum, the teachers' wage fund will grow by 3% next year. The minister says the raise is 4.6%. Finally, it is a question of faith to believe in the budget explanatory statement or the minister. I am pleased that in the last week and a half, Estonia's political landscape has started to change, and instead of the 'no' coalition, the coalition will ask how to revive the economy, support Estonian agriculture and find the means to pay transitional payments to farmers. These are important questions that need answers. These answers come before the third reading of the draft state budget law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U180	Thank you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U181	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! In the pre-war Republic of Estonia, the discussion of the state budget as the country's most important document in Parliament lasted not less than three weeks. This is because each ministry had to justify itself in front of a large hall, why its expenses were such and why its revenues were such. Parliament was absolutely unanimous in its belief that this was the most important task of the Riigikogu. The budget will shape the life of the country, the people and also itself next year. What the current Riigikogu has come to is not only embarrassing, but shameful. Why would I say that? Because there has not even been a debate on these issues, these amendments, whether they concerned rural, educational, scientific, doctoral student grants or cultural workers. However, we are in a position where the state should decide what this main focus is. Where does the money come from to support a faster wage increase for cultural workers and from where will the money come from to increase the pay of teachers? We have major fundamental issues unnegotiated and not negotiated. This is why the Ministry of Finance's official responds that the increase in doctoral student support is not justified, as this grant already increased by 10% last year. I am sorry, but if our Parliament does not work or work to keep its country at the level of one small country today, then it is no longer a question of whether we have one coalition or another. We always have the Government of the Republic and this must be the basis for Parliament. The question is not, and it must not be, that it is now a coalition and yesterday was another. We should be ashamed to talk about it. We are discussing our country's budget, and we should either argue about the lines of reference here, agree on them or wait for new focus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U182	Thank you. Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U183	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, at the end of his speech, my colleague said what I wanted to start with. Here the former speaker of the Free Party Külliiki Kübarsepp and Tarmo Tamm specifically addressed the issue of farmers. I mean, it's really hard to make a difference overnight. It should be even more difficult to change the entire state budget in one month. We are likely to see that there are plans to rinse quite a bit of the state budget between second and third readings. Here I would like to call on you, in Krista Aru's words, to think first. If we find the 20 million between two readings next year that we want to give to farmers, then I really ask that we discuss how to share this money. Will it raise the top-up in the face of a big promise with one hand movement, or may we share it on the basis of the recommendations that have come from the European Union, or, once we have found this money, we will discuss how to support those who do not go under these recommendations, how to reduce injustice and how to deal with those who have now ceased production, but who are entitled to quite large subsidies on the basis of a milk quota or something else? Let us think about whether this form of support will help our agriculture and economic growth. Let us believe the experts and let us believe the entrepreneurs themselves, who say that there is no one to be supported by the subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U184	Thank you. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, My heart hurts for singing parties. Indeed, in the Committee on Culture it was discussed that in 2018 students' singing party Gaudeamus will take place in Tartu. I did not notice there that no one in any of the political groups was opposed to supporting it. It was agreed by consensus that everyone in their group would work to find support for this. The chairman of the Monetary Commission replied here to Mrs Aru, who asked why this proposal had been voted down. Indeed, I am also very sad that the Members of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance and the Social Democrats in the Committee on Monetary Affairs were not in favour of this amendment. I think that now Baltic cooperation is more important than ever given the political situation in the world. Once, in 1956, when the Gaudeamus Song Festival was established, the first party was to fight against the Soviet mentality and their spiritual repression, which were then prevalent. In 1956, it was quite dangerous to say all this in black white. So the students put their backs together. I must say that it was certainly one of the models that helped us regain our independence in 1988. So the Gaudeamus Song Festival, which is part of the 'Estonian Republic 100' events in 2018 and will be held in Tartu in June, must definitely receive support. Maris Lauri, the current Minister of Education and Science, has also believed that negotiations should be held and that Gaudeamus's singing parties should not go back to the Ministry of Education and Research, because it is the Ministry of Education and Research that finances and organises them both in Latvia and Lithuania. Then the cooperation partners would be collegial. I sincerely hope that, between second and third reading, the money for the Gaudeamus Song Festivals will be found, however, that the new coalition will also find this money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U186	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, There's no more calls. There are 24 amendments to the draft and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U187	Can I put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U188	Yeah, if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U189	Yeah. The Conservative People's Party would like to put this to a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U190	Okay. We will vote on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the first amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 6 against, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was supported. A second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U191	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal on education support professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U192	Thank you. We are going to vote on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 13 members of the Riigikogu) and 51 votes to one, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U193	I also ask for a vote on this proposal on doctoral student support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U194	We'll vote on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and 51 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U195	I also ask for a vote on this proposal on funding for R &amp; D.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U196	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 8 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 51 against, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U197	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment, which wishes to raise teachers' salaries further.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U198	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 50 against, with 4 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U199	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal to increase the possibilities for learning Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U200	I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee is to leave it in mind. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 49 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U201	I would also like to vote on this proposal, which wishes to increase the capacity of the prosecutor's office to investigate economic crimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U202	I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 51 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U203	I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 49 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U204	Please vote on a proposal that provides for the development and organisation of the Pilistvere Memorial.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U205	I would like to vote on the proposal concerning the disposal of immovable property subject to conservation restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U206	I shall put to the vote the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 51 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the tenth amendment is not to be voted on, as it has been voluntarily withdrawn by the initiators themselves before being put to the vote. Let's keep going. Amendment 11, tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U207	Please vote on the proposal to raise the salaries of cultural workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U208	I shall put to the vote the 11th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 50 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U209	Please vote on the proposal to increase the regional grants for folk culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U210	I shall put to the vote the 12th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 51 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 13 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U211	Please vote on the proposal for a student song festival in Gaudeamus!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U212	I shall put to the vote the 13th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 49 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 14 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U213	Please put to the vote the proposal for additional differentiated transitional support for farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U214	I shall put to the vote the 14th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 43 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 15 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U215	Please vote on the proposal on public support for rural and agricultural development.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U216	I shall put to the vote the 15th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 47 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16, tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U217	Please vote on the proposal on support for farmers from producer organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U218	I shall put to the vote the 16th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 47 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U219	I would also like to vote on this amendment on support for rural tourism.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U220	I shall put to the vote the 17th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 49 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U221	Thank you. Our proposals have all been put together in one single point. This item provides for an increase in agricultural payments and the financing of municipal roads and recreational activities. I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U222	I shall put to the vote the 18th amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 50 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 19 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U223	Please vote on this proposal, which is intended to ensure the sustainability of the voluntary rescue system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U224	I shall put to the vote the 19th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 21 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 51 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 20, tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U225	I would like to ask you to vote on a proposal to increase the capacity of the criminal police to deal with economic crimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U226	I shall put to the vote the 20th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 51 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U227	I would like to vote on this amendment to improve access to rehabilitation services.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U228	I shall put to the vote the 21st amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 49 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U229	I ask you to vote on a proposal that provides for additional resources to be allocated to the Rescue Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U230	I shall put to the vote the 22nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 51 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 23 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The Governing Commission's position is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U231	Please vote on this amendment on older learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U232	I shall put to the vote the 23rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 50 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Last amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U233	Please vote on the proposal to increase the capacity of women's asylums.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-16_U234	I am voting on the 24th amendments tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 25 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 50 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 303. Second reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 303 amendments. a on November 30, at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted and the sitting closed. Thank you and see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4.10 a.m.
