ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U1	Good morning, good fellows, honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 10th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U2	Good morning, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, A little over a year has passed since the elections, and certainly all our voters and other people will remember the electoral promises that were made before the elections. One of them was the promise to create state-owned rental housing across Estonia. We also have an inquiry to Liisa Oviir, Minister of Enterprise. We have an increasing number of people in society who do not want to be personally involved in the burden of debt. The reasons may be because people cannot afford to own a home, but also because people cannot afford to live on expensive rental premises. Officially, in Estonia, 10% of people live on circa rental premises, whereas in other European countries, 40 to 70% of people live on rental premises. Publicly supported rentals are a very high share of the Western European countries. Renting premises supported by the public sector would be less favourable than average market prices by up to a third and long-term rental contracts would be fixed. The creation of state-supported rentals was foreseen in the development plan for the Estonian housing sector for 2008-2013, but it did not become a reality. The chapter of the coalition agreement, which regulates peripheralisation, also provides for point 5 that the coalition plans to clean up and push up the rental housing market and develop a rental housing programme in Estonia. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister and we are also waiting for an answer to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U3	I request the speech chair of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U4	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present, on behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, an inquiry concerning the closure of the laboratory of the Rakvere Veterinary and Food Laboratory, which is the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. It is known that from 1 June the government intends to close down the lab in Rakvere, which serves both entrepreneurs in Lääne-Virumaa, Ida-Virumaa and Järvamaa. Nine people would lose their jobs in this regard. These nine people are not ordinary people, these people are specialists, chemists. Both smaller and larger companies have already approached the Minister for Rural Affairs and also the heads of the countryside so that this laboratory is not closed. In their letter, the companies have called this closure decision regrettable and say that it is not acceptable at all because it is already difficult for the companies and closing the laboratory would actually only add to the difficulties. In all of this, we have six questions for the Minister for Rural Affairs, to which we would like an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U5	I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U6	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues, good morning. Seven members of the Free Party Group have drawn up an inquiry to Mr Sven Sester, Minister of Finance. The recent spring economic forecast, as you all know well, is sad. Even Professor Raul Eamets, Chairman of the Fiscal Council, said that this forecast was full of wishful thinking. At the same time, optimistic statements by members of the government continue to show that the main objective of this coalition is to revive the economy. We would like to give the Minister of Finance Sester an excellent opportunity to welcome us here in the Riigikogu with new fantasy-rich and fresh ideas about how the Estonian economy will recover during this government, which interesting proposals for tax and excise increases will come before us to patch up budget holes and so on. We look forward to the answers to our six questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U7	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 30 members of the Riigikogu, I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu to the Government of the Republic. I can assure you that there are still plenty of people in the Chamber who say that they did not want to initiate the draft, but in the final vote they will support it. In order for the Riigikogu to be able to take a decision, the final vote on the draft requires 51 votes of support. This decision would help the Government of the Republic to support more effectively the teaching of the Estonian language of people living in Estonia. We task the government with carrying out an in-depth analysis and auditing of the language learning system so far, in order to identify the reasons why language learning has not delivered the expected results so far. In order to ensure that language learning, education in Estonian, is more effective in the future, we propose four points. First, to make available online Estonian-Russian and Russian-Estonian dictionaries, as well as explaining dictionaries, and to enable all Russian-speaking families also to have dictionaries on paper. We draw more attention to the preparation of Estonian language textbooks and other educational materials by setting up a panel of experts. In future, we believe that resources must also be found in the state budget to ensure that a thorough and effective Estonian language course has been prepared on television. Finally, specific language courses must also be given to employees so that they can get the level of the Estonian language that their professional training requires. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U9	Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three inquiries and one draft, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's go through the presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U10	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the debate on the key national issue of 'Keystones for financing basic, interest, general and vocational education'. Before we go to the debate, let me also briefly present the procedure for this debate, which follows from § 153 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. First, Laine Randjärve, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, gives a presentation for up to 30 minutes, then questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. After that, the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Followed by a representative of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities, the Mayor of Tartu Urmas Klaas gave a presentation for up to 20 minutes, then questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Following is a presentation by the representative of the National Audit Office, Auditor General of the Local Government's Audit Department, Airi Mikli, for up to 20 minutes and after that there are questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Members of the Riigikogu have the right to do what you have already done diligently to write down questions, which is still an option. And a member of the Riigikogu can submit up to two oral questions to all rapporteurs. After the presentations and questions, of course, the round of negotiations will be opened and there may be members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups. The Committee on Culture has asked and asked the Riigikogu to speak first with the representatives of the political groups. Following the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The commission has also proposed to extend the session until 14 p.m. or until the agenda is exhausted. We will come back to this, as necessary, during the sitting. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Laine Randjärve, Chairman of the Committee on Culture!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honorable audience! This presentation on funding in the field of education is based on the working discussions of the Committee on Culture that have taken place since May 2015. The meeting was held with representatives of local governments, the Estonian Association of Kindergartens, the Association of Music Schools, private schools, founders, ministries and constitutional institutions. The Commission approached the subject from general and vocational education grants to the salaries of teachers in kindergartens and hobbies. To begin with, I would like to stress that learning and teaching, the organisation of the schoolhouse and school life are not analysed separately from everything else in our society. The real meaning and effect of education will develop in a relationship between all sectors of society and the levels of regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U12	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good colleagues, quiet in the hall, please. Please respect the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen! There's too much noise in the hall. Thank you! Sorry, waitress! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U13	Thank you very much, manager. The world in the dynamic process requires that education arrangements also allow schools to keep up with developments around them. This may not always be convenient, and when it comes to reforms in the field of education, it is easy to get on the populist path because the topics are sensitive and concern many. In the field of education, time must be given to introduce and adapt to changes. However, we must move towards the strategic objective, and this can be done in a number of ways: either by making more and more new rules, by checking their implementation, or by trying to give a big picture and by sharing tasks with the institutions in charge of their field and administration, trusting them to act. We are all striving for a better school, for its creation and preservation, and we are working together to find more money for wages, for investment. But what exactly does a better school mean? I'm sure everyone will interpret it differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U14	Good waitress! It seems to me that I and you are disturbing today's sitting quite a bit. I have a request that I and you be a little quiet, waiting for the House to have its important stories both in the Chamber and at the door, and then we can move forward with our debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U15	Can I continue now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U16	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U17	No, you can't. Can I continue now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U18	Please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U19	Thank you very much. Here comes the very important point. As a grandmother, for example, I am very interested in the atmosphere in Estonian school and the organisation of school in 2030, when my granddaughter should reach secondary education. Does he grow into a person who values values and values his fellows, or is the results of his final exams just important, which are reflected in the statistics that measure success? As Chairman of the Committee on Culture, I will focus in my presentation on the question of how general education arrangements, which focus on the student's needs and, on the other hand, on the teacher's skills, could interact with the processes and expectations of the future in society. The presentation therefore brings forward visions on the financing and organisation of education, the responsibilities of the state and the municipality, the participation of parents in the financing of education, etc. We are talking about basic, basic and recreational education, upper secondary and vocational education. The OECD analysis of resource use has just become available, which highlights the challenges of Estonian school organisation. The summaries were presented yesterday by the Ministry of Education and Research. Without knowing the OECD's internal information, the Committee on Culture has reached similar conclusions in its discussions. You'll see them in the summary of the report. What are the expectations of our society's future education arrangements? What values do we speak of in the first place? In the Committee on Culture, one of the central pillars of the debate on funding for education was surprisingly not the issue of investment, as could have been expected, but rather the issue of values, trust and accountability. There are many categories of values and, once again, everyone appreciates them from their own perspective. Emotional questions are from wall to wall. What does society expect from school? What do we want for our children as parents? What are the values that we associate with school life and a baccalaureate? Is school safe? Can children move enough to maintain their health? Is the school atmosphere friendly? Years ago, a national value education programme for the years 2009 to 2013 was adopted, followed by a follow-up programme for the years 2015 to 2020. Inquiry as to whether and how it has been implemented and what the results have been observed, Professor Margit Sutrop of the University of Tartu stated that the program's activities have been successful and will continue with them. What steps could we take toward a better school? In the presentation, we are talking about a value-based approach to educational arrangements that take into account individual needs-based approaches, the role of support services for both pupils and teachers, trust in schools and local authorities, which would provide more opportunities and responsibility for substantive decision-making and also financial issues, the acquisition of skills as a vital value and the importance of vocational training, its needs to ensure that the acquisition and appreciation of practical and applied skills in society is respected and valued. At this point in time, due to limited time, it is not possible to develop the subject of the student's study load or the volume of study programmes, or to go into depth with the question of whether the one-point result of the state examination is really worth organising the state exams in this way at all and contributing money to this process. Therefore, we are not talking about these things here today, and we are not talking about them now, but we should do so in the near future. A value-based approach to education management, what exactly could it be? In our education system, most maintenance costs are measured and financing decisions are based on the ratio between teachers and square meters and the number of students. The statistics from the various tables tell us that we have, as if, over the teachers and square meters. Is it? Unfortunately, in practice, we have to admit that, for example, teachers of real or natural sciences are looking for school leaders with matchfire. The methodology of ununderestimated measurements should not be planned for the future of the school solely on the basis of statistics. The objective should be a balanced development of personality and activities that support it. The expectations of modern society for school are that the focus should be on individuals, children, students. More and more families consider it important for students with special educational needs to learn in the normal environment in order to prepare for independent life in our society. We need to develop a programme of support for students with different special educational needs in a complex way so that everyone can complete school and make professional choices, according to their abilities. In the previous composition of the Riigikogu, the Committee on Culture addressed the issue of teacher education as a matter of national importance. I believe that we must continue to deal with this consistently. To ensure that good intentions are not left empty, we should, of course, better plan budgetary resources for these activities. Good organisation of education means, on the one hand, a decent learning environment and new houses, but more attention should also be paid to preparing a young person to live with others in our society. This means a wide range of learning methods, cultural recreation or the belief that acquiring skills is a sensible and foresighted step. If we base our education organisation on building on values, children and young people will receive the input they are expected to receive in society. The development of each individual child is the most important criterion for school organisation and financing decisions. The Committee on Culture found that the overall organisation of education must support accountability. The state's trust in the schoolmaster should be transferred to the school for the freedom and trust of the teacher and student. It also means greater trust for teachers, whether it concerns responsibility for the method of learning or for the selection of teaching materials. Thus, the primary task of funding education is to value the content of teaching by preparing teachers in the best way and then supporting their activities in the form of advice, training and decent pay. By evaluating legislation, let it be noted that the current laws are over-regulated in detail. The new Education Act, the preparation of which has begun, could focus on setting the country's orientations, the key part of which would be advice and the pursuit of the target set, rather than the control and reporting capacity as a matter of priority. More about the support services. We have mainly thought about this in support of the school's social pedagogy, psychologist and logopaedic student. However, less has been indicated that teachers also need support to cope with emotional tension and communication skills. I am thinking here of the supervision, the team management training necessary in addition to the professional refresher training. We must also consider the question of what the rights of the teacher are and how to protect the teacher, even in the case of the aggressive behaviour of the student, if the call to order could create a conflict between the teacher and the child or the parent. At the beginning of the week, I watched "Teacher Tammik Rehabilitation." I recommend this, by the way, to all people involved in education and to those who care about school and teacher life. I guess it wouldn't have been better to describe the status of a teacher and the reputation of the profession than the actor and former teacher Priit Kruus did in the performance, based on life experience. My own 13-year-old teacher experience confirms the view that a teacher needs support services as a person, just like students. As a central solution to support the provision of support services to municipalities, the state has set up Rajaidja centres. The discussions in the Committee on Culture have highlighted opposing opinions. It must be acknowledged that the Pathfinder centres are not really meeting the needs of schools today, especially in those places that are away from the centres, although the plan seemed to be a good one at the time of creation. I do not generalise this statement for all centres, but if there are problems in one of the county centres, this is the weakest link that we need to redefine our activities. It is possible that the infrastructure managers' centres should be regional, training coordination, teacher advisory and guidance counselling centres, while the schools of larger municipalities formed as a result of the administrative reform will once again be able to find support specialists in schools, where they are closer to the students and offer immediate help. The aim of today's debate is to set targets by 2018 and beyond when the administrative reform is expected to enter into force, new more capable municipalities have been formed, and new school-keepers and school networks will be revealed in the education arrangements. What could be the educational arrangements for the future? How should responsibilities be divided between the state, local government and parent? And would it be possible to influence the effectiveness of education arrangements by sharing trust and responsibility already mentioned? I believe that effective funding is based on a clear responsibility and freedom to decide on the use of budgetary resources in the organisation of education. Therefore, we can not only focus on state support, but we must also decode the subject of the tuition fees of parents in private schools when financing the education sector, but I also refer to the audit of the National Audit Office in connection with donations to municipal schools. We also need to make clear the area of responsibility of the local governments: what is the detailed division of tasks between the state and local governments in the field of education and how exactly the money reaches schools. Organising and financing early childhood education and recreational education is already largely the responsibility of municipalities. There is also a private initiative. There is no need for major changes here, but additional support is essential to ensure access to early childhood and recreational education. The Ministry of Education and Research is preparing a draft to organise state support for recreational activities, which focuses specifically on supporting supervisors from regions beyond the centres to enable young people to engage in diverse and developing activities throughout Estonia. The principles of the draft have been discussed several times in the Commission and have received unanimous support from its members. As of September 2017, the State plans to introduce support for local authorities to allow for the alignment of remuneration and burden on teachers of hobby schools, i.e. music and art schools, with their contribution to non-school pedagogical activities. It's actually a long-awaited roundabout money that's been talked about a long time ago. In the field of sport, there are national wage subsidies for coaches, which are in support of children and young people in the field of exercise. I believe that we must also create a similar system for music teachers, choir leaders, brass teachers and dance leaders who prepare song and dance parties. The basic school close to the place of residence should remain the parent's first choice when starting a child's school. The Chancellor of Justice also outlined this principle in his written presentation. It is up to the municipality to maintain the comprehensive school and design the school network today. The current establishment of a network of state secondary schools should also free up the resources of local authorities in order to contribute more money to the improvement of primary schools, both in the organisation of houses and in the salaries of staff in pedagogical and support services. We are not getting over or around the issue of financing private schools today. In order for us to be able to reasonably plan the future of education as a whole, for which we are here, some of the creatures must be cleared up. There have been conflicting debates and misunderstandings and dissatisfaction in society on this issue. The draft law on private schools, together with the amendments, is on the table of the Committee on Culture. We have had a number of meetings with stakeholders. Looking at the Forum yesterday, it might have seemed as if the interest groups had not been involved or discussed with them. It is, and repeatedly, and we have listened to both emotional and rational views in the Commission. We are trying to find a satisfactory solution to the situation where the Supreme Court has challenged the wording of the current law. On the one hand, it must be acknowledged that even 4% of parents have chosen private schools, so they are needed. There are certain reasons why a number of parents have wanted to contribute not only to the financing of the state and local government, but also to the organisation of schools, and this cannot be blamed for them. We must take into account the growing desire of parents for smaller classes, a special pedagogical method or individual treatment when we highly appreciate our convergence school. There is much to be said that children may not have enough attention in the big school that a small person needs in this desperately robbing world. On the other hand, the previous talk leads me to believe that perhaps we should focus on finding opportunities to provide the same pleasant learning environment that is being sought in municipal schools when going to a private school. I believe that the point is precisely in the sense of attention-sharing, in the spiritual atmosphere, because, in the context of the debate on private schools and municipal schools, there has never been a negative comment on the content of the subject. To conclude on this subject, I would like to say that support for private schools in whatever way must not conflict with the public interest, weakening this social expectation, which must be guaranteed in particular by the school of the place of residence. And I sincerely hope that in the Committee on Culture it will be possible to agree a reasonable transitional period for implementing the principles prepared by the government. Experience in relations between the state and local authorities has been very different over the years. There have been problems with trust, especially in the financial field, on both sides. From the slide, we can see that the current state of finance for education is illustrated by a budget which, according to its destination, has been divided into "details" into drawers. Unfortunately, such regulation facilitates the spending of prescribed money on one article or another, although it could be directed towards the educational sector, which is the most necessary in a particular area or city, as a bonus for economical use. We believe that an intrinsic definition of what money is exactly education support within the support fund is needed. Is it an instrument for organising the politics of the Ministry of Education and Research, or should it be an instrument for ensuring a sufficient income base for local governments to carry out their statutory duties and decide on solving local life issues? At the meeting of the Cultural Commission in spring with the Union of Estonian Cities and the Association of Rural Municipalities, there was a sharp question of how detailed the state should report to the local governments the money received in the field, which is actually part of the income from taxpayers living in these same municipalities to the state budget. Effective funding is a public interest for all of us. Trusting schools and municipalities does not mean shifting responsibility elsewhere. What are the benefits of mutual trust? Giving local authorities the right and responsibility to decide on the means to carry out their tasks creates a situation where responsibility for the organisation of the sector is de facto shifted to the local level, and the need for the state to take responsibility and to deal with every item of expenditure in general education schools disappears. Municipalities have a real responsibility for how much money they can and want to channel into teachers' salaries and whether and how to make their municipality's education life more attractive, for example by supporting hobbies. Both the Chancellor of Justice's presentation and the National Audit Office's audits suggest that today's state budget funding arrangements for education are not clear enough for all parties and do not guarantee effective teaching and support for students' special needs. We know that according to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the state has committed itself to establishing at least one state secondary school in each county by 2020. The need for other places of study is planned to be covered by the Ministry of Education and Research in cooperation with local authorities and private general education school managers. My understanding is that it is not yet clear at what pace and how the state will take over municipal secondary schools that are ready to be transferred in the near future, although the plan to integrate municipal primary schools with the network of state schools should be realised by 2023. So until then, the duties and responsibilities of municipal secondary schools must be shared very accurately and the rules of the game should be clarified as soon as possible. It would be unacceptable for students and teachers to have different learning and working conditions depending on whether they are studying or working at state or municipal secondary schools. In the interests of an efficient and comprehensive organisation of secondary education, our aim should be to bring together the entire network of upper secondary schools and vocational training centres under the responsibility of the state. Such a comprehensive solution would enable the state to plan strategic developments in secondary education. The responsibility is high, as it is on the basis of secondary education that the mobility of graduates takes place either in the labour market, in vocational or academic studies. Even as early as possible, career counseling should show a young person the way. However, the subject of vocational training is so large-scale and problematic that a completely separate discussion is needed as a matter of national importance. The task of the state is also to finance education for pupils with special educational needs due to severe disabilities. There is a need for cooperation between different ministries. Depending on the specific needs, it is necessary to provide different services, including transport, rehabilitation. It is necessary to consider each individual case separately. These are costly decisions, but only the way we see it is to prepare young people with special educational needs for their own lives and to support their entry into the labour market. The state must treat all pupils with special needs equally, regardless of their school ownership. It also does not matter whether you study in a regular or special school. I also wanted to present today the ideas arising from the OECD analysis on the challenges facing our education organisation, but last night it became clear that Minister Ligi will speak more about these issues myself, and I will limit myself to stating that these challenges are well synchronised with this presentation. Let's move on to the proposals. During the discussions, the majority of the members of the Cultural Commission have repeatedly come to the conclusion that the municipal income base must be provided with all the money needed to provide general education in municipal schools, including the salaries of teachers and other funds needed to organise the studies in municipal schools, which are currently distributed by the state. By way of comparison, in the Western cultural area, the Support Fund is the source of the revenue base created for the municipality to carry out its tasks, the use of which is decided by the municipality either in full or within the sector. In Central and Eastern Europe, the tradition of centrally controlling it by the state is very limited, and the decision-making of local governments over the use and direction of money is largely limited. The uniqueness of Estonia in education is preserved only through the free choices of the schoolmaster. This is the only way for the municipality to have the responsibility and motivation to organise the school network and manage schools effectively. In organising early childhood education, we trust municipalities. As a former mayor, I understand municipalities who expect more confidence from the state and the opportunity to make decisions in the field of education on the basis of local circumstances and needs. This would ensure the most efficient use of resources, accountability and responsiveness. Trust also means trusting a private initiative, including by local authorities. Today you can praise and thank those local authorities who treat all students living in their territory equally. I'll get what I'm talking about. The Commission supported a more explicit description of the State's tasks. The transition of upper secondary school education to the country was largely supported, which should be taken into account in vocational education. The decision-making process must ensure that the various schools work together to implement the learning process with a view to ensuring access to diverse education. These steps must help local authorities to do more to ensure access to basic and basic education. If the obligation to provide secondary education as a whole is planned as a task of the state, then consideration must be given to what is meant by the possibility of municipalities holding upper secondary schools in this system and whether it is appropriate. Students with special educational needs due to severe disabilities should be in the care of the state, but any student with special educational needs must receive rapid and effective assistance. The Commission also found that the current legislative rules need to be reviewed, as sometimes too detailed and excessively control-oriented rules do not support mutual trust and prevent more efficient funding. There are a number of questions in the air that await answers in the future. Will the laws allow us to make reasonable choices so that schools and teachers can fully devote themselves to their work? Do the state exams support our willingness to build more trust between parents and the school? How can the image and interest of vocational education be enhanced and the training organised in conjunction with traineeships? How can this be made attractive and useful for an entrepreneur? The current composition of the Committee on Culture is also trying to provide answers to these questions as a matter of urgency when dealing with the future draft Education Act. Trust creates trust and reduces the need for regulation, which is easy to control on paper, but which may leave something important just a person in the shadow. I warmly thank all the parties who contributed to the process of preparing the debate on a matter of national importance: civil society organisations, professional associations, representatives of local governments and ministries. I hope that the cooperation will succeed in implementing those plans that will improve trust between different institutions and individuals and give responsibility to all those in their hands to create and maintain a better school. Thank you for the audience's attention. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U20	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns the issue of local governments. You stressed that the responsibility and freedom of local authorities to organise general education in local governments is increasing. To what extent are local authorities prepared for such a situation? More money is, of course, always welcome in the local government, but how are we prepared for such a change? And have you listened to their thoughts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U22	Thank you. That's a good question. We have met several times with representatives of the Association of Rural Governments and the Association of Cities. It is precisely at the heart of this issue that local authorities are asking and wanting more of this trust from the state, and they are very prepared for it and have been for a very long time. I can tell you from my personal experience, and I believe you, too, a good questioner, have had this experience as mayor, that on the spot you can see what real needs are. And if the articles are very strictly divided into so-called drawers, as I mentioned here, or certain lines, and you cannot, if necessary, if there is money left over, use it in the field of education for a more painful or important subject in this area or city, then it is extremely difficult. At the same time, at the end of the year the money still in the drawer is being exploited and may not be effective. In any case, local authorities are waiting for the state to have greater confidence in them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U23	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, there have been quite a lot of discussions about private schools and their role in our education system. I have a question about that. What is the opinion of the Committee on Culture about the future of private schools and their place in the educational landscape and the help of the state and local authorities for their work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U25	Thank you. First of all, it must be explained that the procedure for this draft is currently on the Committee on Culture's desk, and since no decisions have been taken, we cannot speak here today about exactly how the Committee on Culture will decide. We can listen to that when the second reading of the bill arrives in the hall. But I can talk about this process and these attitudes. The State supported private schools until 2010, when this disputed draft law was adopted with its amendments, it continued to support them after 2010 and the pending draft provides for state support for private schools. All grants in the field of education come from several sources and it is therefore extremely sad that, in the context of supporting private schools, the concepts have been confused, people have been intimidated and given the impression that the state would withdraw support or close private schools. That's not true. The state has consistently supported private schools in cooperation with local authorities. Most of the local authorities, which today have private schools, voluntarily supported them before 2010, when the same bill was adopted. Most of them have also supported private schools after the adoption of this law, which states that support for local authorities is compulsory. So we are actually always talking about the task of local government to support private schools in the context of operating costs. However, local authorities have not been able to contribute to the creation of many private schools. And this is a topic that is extremely important for the future It will then be reasonable and possible to include the private school being created in the local government school network. Once the municipality has involved the private school in its school network, this obligation arises, as they say, that freedom is perceived as an inevitability. If you've made a deal, you'll have an obligation to support this school. Indeed, we call on local authorities to treat all children equally, because the local authorities receive taxpayers' money, which has been allocated a 'educational component' that can support the operating costs of private schools today. That is my position, and as you have also heard from the presentation: those parents who wish to put their children in private schools appreciate this opportunity and consider that these pedagogical methods are just the best for these children. They must have this right and freedom; we must all have a choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U26	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U27	Thank you! Dear waitress, I would like to ask you a little bit about the relationship between state and local upper secondary schools. The establishment of state upper secondary schools is very good in itself, and there will be strong, competitive upper secondary schools with a good learning environment, where good teachers will certainly come. But in fact, the state has already created inequality or some sort of unfair competition. It may not look so much like it in larger cities, but in any case there are good, strong state gymnasiums in counties in terms of competitiveness, the provision of education ahead of the municipal gymnasiums. Local authorities are not in a position to compete with the State in this respect. What is the solution? It's actually gonna take some pretty quick action here. Should all upper secondary schools be state-owned? There is not much time to spend here, because this can lead to quite a multi-layered or multi-level education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U28	Yes, it is true that competition between state and municipal secondary schools certainly does not increase the quality of education and does not lead to further organisation of education. I think the solution would be cooperation here, not competition. I am currently relying on the explanations given yesterday by Specialist Kalle Küttis, of the Ministry of Education and Research, during the presentation of the OECD analysis. Mr. Marrand, do you mind what I'm gonna say to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U29	I have commented on your answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U30	That's great. Okay, you've already commented. It is important to establish specific rules for the number of upper secondary schools ordered by the state from the upper secondary school of the local government. Indeed, the plan is to reach all municipal secondary schools by 2023, which means that the process has begun. And yesterday it was also a question of how quickly the state would take over those municipal secondary schools that local authorities were already ready to pass on. So there are a number of local authorities who, even tomorrow, would already be willing to hand over proper upper secondary schools to the state. But, of course, we need to plan the funds for this, because transposition means taking on commitments and it can be planned in advance for a long time. As I said, in the field of education, rapid solutions, rapid changes and rapid reforms cannot be achieved. However, I must say that this should be done in parallel. I agree with you that it may not be worth waiting until 2020, when all state secondary schools have already become part of the network and have been built. Already today, the preparation of these processes should start in parallel and budgetary resources should also be planned for this purpose. In this sense, the question was entirely relevant.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U31	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U32	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you very much for a very substantive and constructive presentation. We know that our students are among the strongest in PISA tests. At the same time, we also know that Estonian students are among the most unhappy in the international picture. Do you think it's inevitable that children are more unhappy with high educational quality, or is there something we can do here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U33	Thank you. Ideally, of course, it would be a good answer to the high quality of education and the happiest students in the world. I think these things are compatible because if you have a good environment, good mood, safe and healthy around you, you're ready to contribute more to learning. Of course, it must be said here that this whole atmosphere of the whole school is important because students alone cannot be happy. Teachers who teach them must also be happy, and obviously there must be very good cooperation between school and parents. It is often said that you see, for example, unfinished school work, whether it refers to a child's behavior or to ways of life. At the same time, the responsibility of the family is forgotten. I think the most important educational steps can be taken during the first five years of life. In fact, the quality of early childhood education is crucial. In this sense, I think that it is certainly very important to mention this issue here today and to talk about early childhood education. So it all starts from the beginning, what a child becomes in school, how happy he is there, and how much he can contribute to making himself smart, actually starts from the ground low. Once again, trust between parents, schools and kindergarten is clearly the first step.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U34	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, I would like to thank you for your meaningful presentation here too. But here's the question. I understand that in the Committee on Culture you have addressed a change in the financing model for general education. There was also a proposal to give money to the local government's income base for general education. Now is just the time to ask about this, because within three weeks, funding will be put in place for the various areas of the country in the next four years. This is the budgetary strategy of the state, which we do with the government, not the Riigikogu, but basically the funding of various fields, including general education, will be put in place for a period of four years. Will any of these proposals, thoughts or restructurings reach this four-year country's priority and money planning document?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U36	Thank you for your question. As you well know, and as we all know, the country's budgetary strategy is made every year for four years. It must be acknowledged that these proposals are not formulated specifically in such a way that, within the next three weeks, the country's budgetary strategy can make cardinal changes. However, these steps are necessary to be ready after the 2017 municipal elections when new municipalities have been formed as a result of the administrative reform. We therefore need to reflect today on what this model will be like in the new situation, and we are talking about visions for the future. I think that by spring 2017, we will be ready to formulate a vision with more specific numbers, if, of course, we achieve political consensus and agreement. The Committee on Culture alone can't do anything here. I very much hope that colleagues from the Committee on Monetary Affairs will come to our support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U37	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U38	Thank you! I will return to these state secondary schools and municipal upper secondary schools and give an example of life itself, how the state has not been consistent in its policies. According to one of these national political guidelines, a pure upper secondary school was established for Türi, which at one point had and is currently more students in upper secondary school than in Paide schools. In the near future, Paide will establish a state secondary school. In fact, it is now a very important topic for Türi Common High School and the municipality, which is 15 kilometres away, how to proceed. If we wait until 2023, several generations will remain in the so-called hesitant phase of obtaining their upper secondary school education, because the local government does not know where to invest, in which building, which will be next. It is actually too long to wait until 2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U39	Thank you. The topic of Türi and Paide is about the same as the topic of Tartu and Tallinn, so I generally understand you and your concerns. I think that if the local government wants to have more decision-making and responsibility, then we must make these decisions today. Depends on what Türi municipality government and municipal council want, how quickly they would like their upper secondary school to be part of the network of state secondary schools. Negotiations must be opened on the type of funding or the type of contracts. As long as the school is not under state control, what is the agreement with the state, how many upper secondary schools are ordered, they are funded. State upper secondary schools cover about half the number of upper secondary school or upper secondary school children, so for the rest of them, the agreements need to be revised. Obviously, it is appropriate to refer to inequality. When we heard here last year that school meals are free for students of state secondary schools and are not available to others, this question already arose. Looks like a small detail, but all these details need to be discussed. So your concern is appropriate. Take the bull off your hands!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U40	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your thorough review. Education is such a broad and remarkable area, but you were able to cover so many topics in your presentation. And I understand that I can't get everything very thoroughly, but on the subject of the curriculum, I'd like to open up a little bit of this discussion. In my opinion, the huge problem in society is that people are not moving enough and children's health is rather poor, both in education and in fact in society at large. For example, when we look at going into the army and not going through tests or qualifying for it, it worries us. And the question is: what phase is the plan to integrate mobility education into the national curriculum? Have you made any progress on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U42	Thank you. It has to be acknowledged that during the first year we have worked in this Riigikogu, the Committee on Culture has not been able to deepen the in-depth analysis of curricula or planning. Your question is absolutely relevant. This has been said not only in the context of education, but also in relation to defence issues. For example, young men's physical training is essential when they go to the Defence Forces, but of course, the health of young women in the creation of a family and in the birth of children is also an issue where it is essential that people have movement habits from low ground. It is a pleasure to note that the Ministry of Culture has given a great deal of attention to the topic of exercise in various programmes, and I see that a lot could be done here in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research. At the very least, I think that in the field of education and culture, especially seeing this now, our ministries should work more horizontally through the eyes of the chairman of the Committee on Culture. Often the same topics as the quote or in the cylinder are carried out instead of creating a link or bridge between different ministries. I believe that this theme is important and we will certainly deal with it in the future. Like I said, there wasn't enough room or time in the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U43	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, there was a very concrete and very-very inclusive speech. My question is about early childhood education. Since the state has quite successfully increased the salaries of school teachers, the salaries of kindergarten teachers financed by local authorities have created quite large scissors and these scissors are growing. Local authorities simply cannot keep up with the country. What is the current state of play in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U45	Thank you for your question. Again, when reference is made to the report, I also mentioned that the movement of cash flows will also change with the restructuring of the financing of education. If we reach an agreement today, not today specifically, but in the near future, that everything concerning secondary education should be financed by the state, then local authorities will also be freed up to finance the areas assigned to them by the Constitution, i.e. basic and basic education. This is the place, because where does that money come from so much? The money doesn't grow on a tree or anywhere in the corner, we can't print it more, we can get it at the expense of something. Here's the question of how to channel these cash flows. And as I said, the development of a child in the first years of life is very important. The work done by teachers in kindergartens is extraordinary and very grateful. They do, indeed, for a very small salary. However, if we want to restructure the funding of education in order to give the local government one area, i.e. primary and secondary education, and to give the state secondary education and beyond, it makes no sense for the state to start making any interim injections today. We should work towards a comprehensive solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U46	President of the Committee on Culture, thank you. Now I ask the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi for the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U47	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Riigikogu! My understanding is that today's theme is 'Key issues in the financing of education'. I will go straight to this and focus on the most important structural problems, which undoubtedly relate to the fact that resources are always limited and decisions must always be the smartest. I apologise in advance because I am able to use only my slides and partial notes, not the text of the speech, because of technical viper. First of all, a description of the boundaries of the resource. This can be measured, for example, by the share of education in public expenditure, in the state budget. We have preferred education here for years: in 13 years we reached 15.4% education in government expenditure, but during the crisis the situation was the best. Since the crisis, we have preferred education costs and kept them from being cut. Unfortunately, the current trend is a percentage deterioration. While we have set a target of 6 to 7% of GDP, budget coverage is not guaranteed. However, not only is it preferable to the cash service but also to the development of private real estate. This is the current state of budget negotiations. Our preference, or increase in the pay of teachers, has come to a lesser extent than the agreement. Go on. Our more general preference for resource distribution is to redirect money from real estate to people and the content of education. It's a little bit better in vocational education, as you can see from the drawing. There has been an improvement in the relationship between students and teachers. However, the decrease in the number of students has been accompanied to some extent by a decrease in the number of teachers, i.e. by maintaining efficiency and focusing on content. On the other hand, the problem in general education is getting worse. Looking at five years, the number of teachers in vocational education has fallen by 14.9%, the reason being the consolidation of the system and the reduction in the number of students for demographic reasons, but the decline in general education is only 2.4%. The reason here is also the division of functions with the schoolgirl. Negotiation or cooperation is always more difficult with other schoolchildren than with their own schools. We are the lowest-class country among OECD countries in the third grade of primary school. The OECD average is 24, in Estonia it is 15, which also refers to our current debates over small classes. The number of square meters per student is still growing. While consolidation in higher education and vocational education took place in the context of the economic crisis, insufficient effectiveness was not achieved in general education. The need for grid consolidation is reflected upwards by lines with a higher growth trend than wages, and, as you can see, if we do nothing decisively, the projections are only in the direction of disadvantage. Of course, we do not agree with all the critics here either. In my opinion, the National Audit Office's assessment of the situation is a little more radical primarily because we value the school near home in lower age classes and do not pursue direct efficiency here alone. However, we have to admit that half of the local authorities have more than 20 squares of floor space per student, although we consider the ten optimal. However, there is also a major problem of surface use in vocational education. Our strategy and government programme require a change in emphasis on the allocation of resources. However, decisions can still be made, as has been said, with and by creating incentives for schoolchildren. We are doing this with investment programmes, for which we have allocated EUR 141 million until 2022. All of this will only go with agreements to consolidate the school network. We invest to ensure that primary schools are fit and that municipalities focus on primary education. We plan to gradually take over upper secondary school education according to our abilities and how state secondary schools are completed. It will undoubtedly enable the level of pay and the quality of education to be increased, which must be the main thing in the interests of the child. The older the class, the greater the emphasis is on the state interfering. Of course, we have problems here with student migration and demographic impacts, and these problems are being amplified. As you can see from this picture, the disunity of rural governments in surface use is increasing, not decreasing, which requires stronger decisions, not slower or opposite decisions. But we are also planning changes here in sync with administrative reform. This means that stronger municipalities will certainly be better partners in the design of the school network, but regardless of this, we do not follow the rules of administrative reform. However, I dare say that the reform of the school network will have a much stronger and more substantial impact on citizens than the reform of the rural municipalities can, in principle, but they will support each other. Go on. On the same subject that is on the agenda today, yesterday the OECD's best international expert, whose analyses and positions I have always been an admirer of, presented his views, and when these positions appeared, I could say that this respect was mutual. The OECD views support everything that has been sought to do in at least the last year. At times, the OECD is even more radical. First of all, the OECD highlights Estonia's strengths. He says emphatically that we have a very effective and equal school system, and he wonders about some of the things that are happening in Estonia, that we are trying to break or subjugate the system. He says that we have an informed education policy and a clear strategy that we know what we are doing, and we are knowledge-based in our choices. He highlights our considerable investments. As this OECD report is from 2014, there is not all the information on what has been happening in the meantime, but yes, our considerable investment in education is commended. It also clearly supports the fact that these investments are aimed very closely at achieving strategic objectives (i.e. consolidation, quality of education and taking into account children's interests) and are not intended for a uniform distribution of money. He also says that this financing model, this giving the local governments the money that Minister Aaviksoo and I have made together, will direct the school network to clean up. The way in which we finance school grades in the same way will help to organise the school network, while the Committee on Culture's view that municipal funding should be completely lost is not supported. I would like to say right away that, if we give teachers' money to the local governments for free use, the result is what has happened in Latvia, where very many teachers in unclosed schools, in a non-consolidated school network only receive a minimum wage, much lower than we do. And the Latvians admit it's a problem. Teachers' pay, however, is a priority that cannot be left to be dictated only by local authorities, as has actually happened in the case of early childhood education near home, where wages are low. It's easier to keep schools open and say there's no money, and then the government can't be responsible for anything unless it's purposeful. The autonomy of schools in the use of resources will be enhanced. This concerns not only the issue of money, but also the issue of mental resources and the professionalism of teachers. There is a story about teacher's decision-making and the school's own choices. Efforts to raise teachers' salaries are highlighted. I'm not going to bring the numbers, but we are by far the fastest country in the OECD to raise the pay of teachers. This is very different from the situation that has happened in Europe and elsewhere during the crisis, when wages have been frozen and sometimes even cut. Of course, the OECD also speaks of weaknesses, calling them ugly 'calls', but it does point out that there are things that we have to work for. Fortunately, there is no way we can say that we would disagree or that we would not. The blurring of the responsibility of the state and the local government is a fact. Where are we going to settle this now? One place is taking over schools for children with special needs from municipalities. This is a longer process, but responsibility can also go through private schools for children with special needs, which we have been funded differently than ordinary private schools. We're about to take responsibility for the country, finance schools for children with special needs in different forms, but it's gonna take some time before we clear this whole thing up. The school network needs to be organised more quickly, precisely our position, and during the last year the programmes that channel investment into it have started. The project of state secondary schools was, of course, launched earlier. We only invest in basic schools to do the right thing and, of course, in the wider context, the allocation of basic school and upper secondary school is part of this process. The only really critical point in this report is public funding for private schools and training permits. It is a pity that there is no Kalle Muuli here who said yesterday on the Forum that the OECD offers no compromise on the subject of private schools. Unfortunately, it's the other way around. His statement was that the Ministry of Education wanted to take money from private schools and that the OECD had some kind of nice compromise to offer. The reality is the opposite. By decision, the Ministry of Education and Research and the government want to give this function to the municipality to consider. This means that all the bounty, education allowance remains the same, but real estate support is a matter for the municipality. Just as it is for the municipality to decide on its own schools, so that it does not happen or stay so that the municipalities close their schools, but are forced to continue to finance real estate development, which is a private initiative. The government wants to change this inequality with a decision, simply to give it to the municipality for consideration. This does not automatically mean taking away money but considering it, after which the answer is usually in the affirmative. On the other hand, the OECD has two offers. The easiest offer is to stop providing operating support, i.e. real estate support. That's a suggestion. Another proposal is that if private schools charge tuition fees, they reduce the amount of education allowance. This certainly does not make sense for the state, it means paying the tuition fees for private schools at the same time. This does not make any sense, but it would simply take out private money, because in that case, of course, tuition would not be charged if this money came from the state. Once again: we are not as radical as the OECD is, but we recognise all the problems that the OECD has highlighted. The integration of children with special needs into mainstream schools and support for young people in other languages are once again very agreeable. It is the attitude we have taken that children with special needs who are able to study in a normal school must be put to the maximum of normal school children and, of course, regular children must also practice with special ones. Children who have to cope with life in the future should be in contact with other children at school and vice versa. We must bring children with special needs to life, not isolate them. This can be done both in private schools and municipal schools, but 97% of children with special needs are still in regular schools and we should not bring them into very special conditions as far as possible. Schools for children with severe disabilities are, of course, a separate subject. The fact that vocational education is not popular enough is also the correct observation, we know that. Of course, popularity cannot be turned off, but vocational education is sometimes somewhat preferred in the form of overinvestment. We are now hoping for a result from various measures, but one is that we distinguish between upper secondary school and primary school. This should have the strongest impact. Young people have a choice as to whether or not they are oriented to the university or more quickly to the invitation. With regard to the organisation of the school network, the OECD recommends that we act more quickly, which is what we do, and that the interests of children should be pursued, which means good education. Financing private schools. What are the reproaches that, be it said, the OECD makes very keenly? Financing private schools creates serious issues of justice and competitive advantages for private schools. The current situation favours private schools: they receive more money per child, tax money plus tuition, and there are more freedoms for children than in ordinary schools. The ratio is 1.6, plus a tax credit for parents. Next, it subsidizes the wealthier than the average of public money. It cannot be denied that intermediates and poorer people must prefer free education. It works against the organization of the school network. Basically, what they say: stop the overgrowth of real estate, focus on the content. That's what we say. The funding system for private schools focuses on the real estate development of private schools. The current system is in the opposite direction: the public school network is contracting, while the private sector is expanding. Last time I checked, there was a private school with four kids, but they get real estate support. Think about it, members of the Committee on Culture and Kalle Muuli personally! This increases the cost of the education system. It does not bring so much resources as it increases inefficiencies and costs and provides the basis for future quality problems. Those are not my words, they are the words of the OECD. These are the words of a neutral expert who did not know at the time that a private school child would receive more money, not equally with a regular school child. The OECD did not know the system how it worked, but in a superficial estimate they thought there was equal money. No, a private school child receives more real estate support, for example in Tartu and Tallinn, and one and a half times more, not to mention the average regional impact in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U48	Thank you, good Chairman. Thank you very much for your very meaningful presentation, thank you very much first. Now the questions. As we know, the strength of the Estonian education system has been considered to be high international level and low educational stratification, which is based on this school of convergence. Can you, as a representative of the municipalities, say that some municipalities are in such a bad situation that this level has not actually been achieved? The second question concerns the subject of municipal school and private school. They are known to form one whole within the municipality. The students are the same. Do you consider the current system of financing private schools to be fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am asking you about the financing of private schools, about the blurring of the responsibility of the state and local authorities resulting from the OECD report. As we know, the state will finance private schools with an additional EUR 7 million to cover operating costs. You have argued that nothing will happen: local authorities will take it over smoothly and local authorities will decide how they will support private schools further. But I would remind you, Mr Minister, that it is only possible to impose additional obligations on local authorities if they are also secured by financial means, otherwise there will be a contradiction with the Constitution. Why are such promises made and assumptions made that, while local authorities finance, private schools do not fail? You could honestly say that the local government doesn't have any money for this, either, if the state takes away that money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U50	I really like how the party, which usually distributes free things, whose main educational policy initiative was free school food for everyone, not for those who need it, is now starting to, like, very unambiguously prefer paid education. After all, in some ways, this is a great education, paid for, creates diversity and enables a private initiative that we all support, accept and do not question. But you are clearly concerned about whether the municipality can support paid education rather than whether the municipality can support free education if the children are reduced. The reality is that local government schools are going down. My last slide showed them to be locked up every day. The OECD recommends speeding up this process as children are low, real estate costs are increasing and teachers' salaries are rising with less money. It's exactly the same problem, and it's connected to private schools. The children are the same wherever they are. We need to make sure on the ground that this does not turn into a real estate development and a waste of costs. This can only be done on the spot by the municipality. This is not the responsibility of municipalities, but their right to check their school network. It's what the local governments want. The Municipalities, the Association of Rural Municipalities and the Cities are very clearly behind the Government's draft, which was approved by the Government and was in principle decided on 30 June last year. This scheme is complete and we have always had allies: a union of municipalities and a union of rural governments. They do not accept it as an obligation, whatever it is, but as an opportunity to control their school network and not to duplicate, to give the child a choice, but not to create a situation where one school is automatically privileged by the state: real estate and everything else, plus the possibility of tuition and the right of establishment. On the other hand, the state grants only education support. This is an extremely unequal situation, i.e. a 1.6-fold preference, without the municipality's right of choice. So once again: we are in the boat with the municipalities and this is not in any way contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U51	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about music schools, which provide an education of interest and which is to finance local governments. However, professional teachers work there, they have a professional, very thorough curriculum, and they also prepare professional musicians in addition to those who go to the music academy as students. And it is not possible to compare the education there with any other kind of study of interest, basket cramming, or ceramic circles. Do you think it is possible to discuss this issue, too, so that music schools are still included in the general education system and the state puts it under its shoulders?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U53	Thank you. I would certainly not contrast different areas of interest education. But our general education policy stance is that also an education of interest could really provide practical skills. If this is a musical game, there is no shortage in this area in Estonia more than we would like to re-distribute the resource. We already have a certain coordinating role in the government, and youth work is also under the administration of the Ministry of Education, but it must remain with the local authorities to organise this topic on the ground. But, of course, we also put our money there by the central government: from the Gambling Tax Council, from European programmes, etc. There is also an additional 'circulation' measure, which we are now centralising. However, recreational education is in itself an addition to school education and it is not quite possible to combine it with different interests, different opportunities. What is common is general education, some of which, of course, overlap with a number of fields of interest education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U54	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U55	Thank you. However, I must comment first on your arrogant and dishonest introduction. I'm not in the habit of lying. I'm often wrong like all people, but I really only get into disputes in cases where I know something and I'm very convinced of it. You can deny it, but not with lies. Inequal funding is also due to this basic school and upper secondary school law. In Tartu and Tallinn, and several other schools, local governments' own operating costs (i.e. maintenance costs for real estate, some nuances still there) are in the order of 57, sometimes 53 euros per square metre, but according to the law, the local private school does not have to accept it. It is precisely the average of Estonia, which was just 91 euros. Now, if I am not mistaken, it is EUR 87, because more children have come to large places, which in turn will change these coefficients a little bit. But yes, the Estonian average is bigger than the amount spent by municipalities in Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Rakvere on their schools. In Pärnu and Rakvere this is very friendlyly resolved, no more questions are asked. In Tallinn and Tartu, where most private schools are located, more is asked. Here comes the first difference as to why a private school child receives 1.6 times more public money than a regular school child. The second comes from what I was referring to, i.e. from a regional scale, they can really choose the best places to go to school. I can go on. This advantage, i.e. 1.6, does not yet have a parent's income tax refund. Please calculate this on the basis of the Rocca al Mare School tuition fee, add up, do your calculations and then come back here to say what you said. The system is still as I have said, and nothing has changed in the 11 hours that I think you said. Did you have a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U56	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I very much like that you have started to support public education and I would now ask about public education. You said that the organisation of the school network was in cooperation with the local authorities. There are currently a significant number of sustainable upper secondary schools in Estonia, which the rural municipality also wants to preserve, where there are children and which the rural municipality can handle on a daily basis, but which the state has left in the cold because somebody in Tallinn thinks that Antslas does not need a secondary school. And if local residents want to maintain it, then the state will start persecuting them, for example, it will not provide the opportunity to receive 'normal' state aid for primary school, because the locals, despite everything, offer upper secondary school education. Did the local people...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U58	Good questioner, your time! I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U59	Did the local people...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U60	Good questioner, your time! I'm asking the Minister to respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U61	Thank you. I understood the point of getting up. Thank you for that good introduction. I assure you that Estonia is not a country that bullies its municipalities. If there's any disrespect here, I think it has to be dealt with. But knowing our people, they're gentle themselves, those who do it, compared to me very benevolent. They never go to sharpness or bullying, which I never go to either. Indeed, cooperation with municipalities is substantial. Maybe it wasn't so clear about the first or the second state gymnasium, but I can see it now. The municipality will still agree what their local plans are, and the building of the state secondary school will be decided accordingly. The idea of building a state upper secondary school cannot be more school places because they are over, but a better and more compact school network, which the OECD emphasises as the most important issue, which is most important in the interests of children and is most important in the interests of coping with life. Visit state gymnasiums! I've had enough time to do other things, but what I've heard on the side, and what I've seen on the ground, fascinates me. The last move was to Jõhvi High School for the second time. There are children in both languages with bright eyes, and a very positive atmosphere, it is highly innovative. The upper secondary school as a separate school is quite different from the usual 10/12. Class 10, not to mention 10,12. from a class with only a few dozen children left without the burden of diversity and the burden of a teacher. We would like the teacher to have a full load of secondary education in upper secondary school, and we have already achieved this. However, I assure you that this is still a positive programme, not a bullying programme, but very small levels of school are not so viable. And we are certainly not teasing basic schools, it is investing in plans, in agreements and it is not evil, it is cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U62	Minister, thank you. I ask the representative of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities and the Mayor of Tartu, Urmas Klaas, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U63	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, Minister and guests! I would like to begin by thanking and congratulating the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, whose initiative is to discuss the key points of education as a key national issue. I think it is right that Parliament actively pursues the debate on funding for both education and local authorities. The funding of the education system has fueled passion since the restoration of independence. There has not been a time when different parties would not have discussed the subject. However, the discussion must be constructive and result in mutually satisfactory agreements. It is sad that there have been no substantive discussions on educational issues during the last four years in the Education Working Party of the Government of the Republic and the Council of Municipalities, not to mention reaching an agreement. Only a few of the numerous proposals made by the municipal associations have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U64	Good waitress, I have to apologize to you! I don't think there's a report on our screen. I will take the chairman's break for two minutes, and I hope that this technical issue will be resolved. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U65	Dear colleagues, honored waitress and good internet watchers, I'm sorry. Dear Mayor of Tartu, please proceed with your presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U66	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Local authorities are constitutional institutions that have the right to independent decision-making on local matters and have to maintain the necessary number of educational institutions together with the state in order to make education available. However, a clear division of responsibilities between municipalities and the central government has not yet been agreed upon in fulfilling this obligation. Each task also requires the availability of sufficient financial resources, and that is where the problems of financing education start. In addition, there is a lack of trust between municipalities and the central government, which hinders constructive cooperation and reaching agreements. We have a very good strategy paper entitled 'Estonia's Lifelong Learning Strategy 2020', according to which you can read more about the files, the local government must guarantee basic and basic education close to home, while the state must guarantee high-quality and selective upper secondary school education. Meeting the objectives of the strategy requires close cooperation between all actors involved in education, including agreement on how to organise funding in the field of education in the most sensible and appropriate way. Only a sovereign decision-maker can be held responsible for its responsibilities and make effective use of resources. If a task is financed from several sources or the obligated party is unable to perform its task because of insufficient resources, then reasons are always found to circumvent responsibility and blame each other. According to the municipalities, the bilateral fixed costs that hinder development should be abandoned and the resources needed to carry out the tasks allocated between the central government and the municipality should be distributed on an educational level, as proposed by the Committee on Culture. The person responsible for the relevant level of education can then decide whether to maintain the educational institution himself or to order study places from other school holders, for example, which would not depend on the ownership of the educational establishment. It is pleased that at least in terms of upper secondary school education, the state is preparing to take greater responsibility. Unfortunately, there is still great ambiguity in this process, as is the case with today's debate. According to the draft Education Act, upper secondary school education has been organised 100% by the state since 2023. The transitional period is very long and questions arise from the unequal treatment of schools with different forms of ownership in funding and the creation of competitive advantages for state secondary schools. Good Riigikogu! I would like to stress that I repeat to the local government the task imposed by law must be covered by the resource. Therefore, when we are talking about funding education, we must start with a basic income base for local authorities, which would allow us to carry out our responsibilities normally, including in the field of education, and to cover the necessary costs. During the economic crisis, in 2009, the share of income tax received by municipalities was reduced from 11.93% to 11.4% and the former rate has not been restored. This year, however, means that local budgets will receive EUR 40 million less. In the preparation of the state budget strategy, both the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments have repeatedly pointed out that the budgets of local governments are not in line with the tasks assigned to them. Moreover, the possibilities for local authorities' budgets, including funding opportunities, are increasingly lagging behind the possibilities of the state budget, and this is of course not acceptable to local authorities. Despite a deficit in the revenue base from the state budget, local authorities have increased their contribution to early childhood and general education at a faster pace than has been done by the state in the form of education support in the years after the economic crisis in 2011-2015. Good Riigikogu! The biggest problems and dissatisfaction, looking at the local governments' position, are currently in general education. A satisfactory cooperation was carried out between 2006 and 2012, when the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance, together with the local government associations, developed a model of funding for general education schools based on book class kits and the cost of the curriculum, which was introduced in 2008 and worked quite well until 2013. Since 2014, we have an accounting system based on coefficients, which is not accepted in the eyes of local governments and local governments, as a basis for the distribution of education support. By enforcing this, the Ministry of Education's message was that the coefficients guarantee access to basic schools close to home, taking into account regional specificities and fair treatment of municipalities with similar indicators. In addition, the funding of schools had to become clearer and more stable, which meant, among other things, that the funding principles would not be changed every year, you will remember the first slide, where all the trees are chewing from a different hole. Unfortunately, now that the education allowance is awarded on the basis of coefficients for the third year, it has not brought much happiness to schoolkeepers or schools. The current distribution model does not take into account the real cost of school grades when completing the curriculum or the changes that have taken place or are taking place during the funding period. In addition, education support is unequally distributed among municipalities, because it is interesting, but the coefficients differ by a whole order of magnitude between similar schools and the number of students. Apart from the absolute value of teachers' labour costs, no other education support has increased. Teachers' salaries have also not increased in the same proportion to the actual increase in the minimum wage in the state budget. On the other hand, there has been an increase in the workload of teachers and in the performance of the class, which is the calculated basis for calculating the student's bounty. Let me set out the next problem. The use of education support is targeted and excessively regulated. The right of municipalities and schools to decide on the extent and activities they invest in is limited. There are limited opportunities to pay from education support to important employees such as support specialists, educators, assistant teachers, etc., without whom we cannot imagine today's school life and who support the student and teacher in their daily work. Teachers' salaries are not allowed to be used even for the purchase of courses provided for in the curriculum from other institutions of higher education, vocational schools and museums, which would be reasonable and very necessary in the case of upper secondary school electives. It is also usually prohibited to finance upper secondary school and vice versa. Apart from the fact that schools and school-keepers are forced to use education support, the administrative burden has increased as a result of reporting. Figuratively speaking, the local government has been transformed into the cashier of the central government, who provides the exact money he receives and ensures that the reports drawn up for the money provider are correct. This situation has, by the way, been condemned by the Chancellor of Justice, namely this role of cashier and very limited decision-making powers, but unfortunately he has not reached the reasons for this situation. It has not been a promise that the funding principles will not be changed every year. Instead of contributing more own resources to the development of education, for the fourth year, municipalities will have to find extra money from already scarce budget resources to maintain the current level of our general education schools. The last example of the change in education support was when investment support was stopped and EUR 2.6 million was allocated to teachers' salaries. When all the changes in the funding of general education schools for the last four years are summarised, Tartu, Tallinn, Pärnu and Viljandi alone have had to cover the funding gaps in their budget of more than 10 million euros since 2013. Local authorities have repeatedly asked in budgetary negotiations how much the education allowance granted must cover the costs necessary to complete the national curriculum. With regard to the current funding system, this question will probably not be answered, as estimates of actual educational costs have unfortunately not been made. One concern is the organisation and financing of education for pupils with special educational needs. The problem is that, already years ago, the legally clearly defined obligation to provide students with higher special needs, i.e. HEV2 education opportunities, cannot or does not wish to meet the required level of education. In 2012, for example, Tartu, Tallinn and Pärnu have had to contribute nearly 12 million euros from their budget to fulfil their obligations. This money has also, figuratively speaking, had to be pinched at the expense of other educational establishments. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, this is neither normal nor rational behaviour when local governments have to go to court with the Ministry in order to force the state to carry out its duties. The rigid rules on education support also hamper the inclusion of HEV1 students with less special needs, the mainstream school and the implementation of the necessary support measures. The Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments have submitted their views on the financing of support specialists to the central government several times. In the case of education for HEV children, the best results are also the early sighting and immediate intervention that has been mentioned in the hall today. The need to apply an appropriate form of study or support can often be revealed, for example, in the middle of the academic year. However, if the specific needs of the student are identified after 10 November, the breakdown of the public education allowance for the following financial year is already closed and the school receives the higher coefficient of education allowance for that student in good case only in the following financial year. Organising and financing early childhood education and recreational education is now the responsibility of one hundred percent of the municipalities and we believe that this must continue to be the case. However, as the income base of local governments has decreased and opportunities are therefore very different, there are also a number of problems that need to be addressed in these areas: equal access to education, a large difference in the pay of teachers from one region to another, etc. If the pay of a teacher in Estonia is a priority, we can talk not only about the salaries of teachers in general education schools, but also about the salaries of teachers in kindergarten and interest schools. In early childhood education, over-regulation and different requirements for kindergartens and childcare should also be identified as a problem. However, as we know, the new concept of early childhood education and the legislative changes proposed by the Ministry have taken on the direction of harmonising early childhood education and care, reducing central regulation and increasing flexibility. This is, in our opinion, a welcome initiative worthy of the support of the local authorities. Thanks to the Ministry for that. The current situation in the field of recreational education is hopeful, and let us make it clear. We have been introduced to the support scheme that will be in place in September 2017, which is known to amount to EUR 15 million. The breakdown is based on the number of young people aged 7 to 19 enrolled in the register of residents in the region. Very good! At the same time, many young people who are not residents of this municipality participate in the education provided in the centres of attraction. For example, in the city of Tartu, there are 1/5 of those who participate in recreational education outside the municipality of Tartu. And since, as we know, there is no legal basis for moving between local authorities in the case of hobby education, it exists for kindergartens and general education schools, there is a high likelihood that the mere allocation of local registered support does not ensure the achievement of the objective of equal access to hobby education. So I ask you to take this issue into account when dealing with the draft. We agree with the Ministry of Education and Research that education must be a priority in our country and that more money must be found in education. We fully support the Ministry of Education and Research in its negotiations and discussions with the Minister of Finance. It's a fair fight. And let us also say that we approve of the initiative of the Ministry of Education to amend the private school law in order to restore the principles of support for private schools that were in force before 2011. Simplifying early childhood education regulations and making the organisation more flexible were discussed above. In conclusion, the current situation regarding the financing of education is not satisfactory for local authorities. The backwardness of the municipality's income base, the rigid rules of education support and, unfortunately, the annual changes have led to a situation where even larger municipalities find it increasingly difficult to ensure the quality and availability of education, not to mention the longer term planning of education organisation or the development of a more effective school network. In answer to the question of whether new grants must be provided for better financing of different educational areas or whether the current targeted grants should be increased, the local government associations are of the opinion that, in order to fulfil their permanent tasks, a sufficient income base should be provided to the municipalities either by means of general grants or by increasing tax revenues. Here we could take the example of the Nordic countries, where the state authorities trust local authorities, the educational costs are covered from the local governments' income base and are not written in detail, in detail, to what and for what this money can be used for. The OECD has also recommended in its reports that general grants are much more effective than targeted grants, as costs and benefits remain on the ground, allow for more flexibility in the provision of services and facilitate the implementation of alternative and integrated solutions. Municipalities must be given the opportunity to take responsibility for their inhabitants, not for the central government. The money must not be spent as a cashier of the central authority, but used in the best way to achieve results based on local needs. The question, however, is whether the central authority is prepared for fundamental changes and whether it is prepared to give up a certain part of education money as an instrument for organising its own policies. However, the achievement of the educational strategic goals of the Estonian state depends directly on this. I say with a clear voice: local governments and national self-government associations are ready to cooperate fully with the central government to solve the key problems of financing education. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U67	The mayor of Tartu, who is in front of us today as a representative of the Association of Estonian Rural Government and the Association of Estonian Cities, has questions. Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U68	Thank you. Let's just say that this cooperation body is still a good place to talk about things, to discuss things and to communicate with each other in the Education Group. It doesn't do any credit if the local governments are wrongly accused of being the ones who, at any cost, want to divert the teachers' salary. Unfortunately, a minister of education If we're gonna call the cops on each other, I don't think we're gonna get very far. But it's history, let's not get stuck in it, let's move on. The answer to your question is that if the local governments' revenue base were as it should be, and we believe that this could mean that we are restoring the pre-crisis level, the 2009 level, we are returning to 11.93%, then we would have taken a step forward. As the slides here show, the responsibilities of the municipalities and the revenue base are not in line, and there is still much overstretched, or serious, fiscal centralism. In Tartu City Government, four accountants could do other work, but they produce reports to the Ministry of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U69	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U70	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Mayor, You have referred on several occasions to competition in state secondary schools and municipal secondary schools and to a seven-year transitional period. The question is Tartu. As we know, Tartu has always been a bright beacon for young people in South Estonia, and it has become an upper secondary school education. In the past, the schools of Härma and Treffner were mainly those to which they were seeking, then the state has now set up a state secondary school there and there are also minor differences or even bonuses in Tamme's upper secondary school, let's say 50 euros extra accommodation plus a fully paid school lunch, which is a clear advantage over municipal secondary schools. In this role of lighthouse, do you already see how these schools are distinguished and what can happen in these seven years if this is a so-called transition period?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U71	Thank you. You're quite right in pointing out the problem, but I'm going to make it clear that there are differences between the state gymnasium and the municipal upper secondary school. The salary fund of state upper secondary schools is one of the whole, i.e. the director of state secondary schools has a freer hand in making decisions. The Ministry pays the so-called box costs of the buildings to Riigi Kinnisvara AS. Indeed, there are a number of additional benefits for high school gymnasts, to which you also referred: transport allowance, housing allowance, free school lunch. That's right now. According to the rule of thumb, 30% of the gymnastics in the city of Tartu come from outside Tartu. As a centre of attraction, Tartu brings students together from South Estonia and, in fact, even across Estonia. Many children have also come from Tallinn to Tartu gymnasiums. I say that this gap in our case is not yet so clear, because Hugo Treffner Gymnasium, Miina Härma Gymnasium, Jaan Poska Gymnasium and our youngest gymnasium, Kristjan Jaak Peterson Gymnasium are really very, very good schools. Children and their parents value the quality of their schools very high. At the moment, quality is still the first to be decided. But there was a big competition at the state gymnasium in Tamme. I'm sure he has the advantage that he can offer the things we've been talking about here. For directors who run municipal secondary schools, there is certainly pressure and pressure on us to allow all these things. Unfortunately, we are not able to do so within the framework of this 11.4% and highly regulated education support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U72	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We are not talking about financial matters here today because we are deciding who to put on responsibility or take away from, but because these children, who are now in school, will also be able to do so in the second half of the 21st century. Since you have considerable competence in both education and culture, I ask you this. If it were up to you to decide, would you have some ideal option of funding in the field of education that, in your opinion, would provide the best conditions for children to succeed in this world in the second half of the 21st century?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U74	Thank you, Minister. You have a lot of questions, too. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U75	Thank you. The studies that have been carried out, I say in general, I am not able to quote all these studies now by heart or to refer to the sources of direct access to education, unfortunately, show that there are regional differences in access to and quality of education. I'm afraid the picture's different. The step taken by the Ministry of Education and Research to increase the country's responsibility for the provision of upper secondary school education is, in our opinion, right. We see the problem that the transition period up to 2023 is quite long, which unfortunately causes confusing situations and certainly also inequalities. Schools find themselves in a very difficult situation in terms of competition. But I also want to say that when we talk about taking responsibility for upper secondary school education, self-government associations clearly do not consider state secondary schools to be the only possible solution. In our view, consideration should also be given to the possibility that the state will order a form of upper secondary school education, for example, from municipal secondary schools. But the problem really is that not all children across Estonia get an equally good education. That's the problem we have. As far as financing of private schools is concerned, we consider it right that the school network should be one whole and that every municipality, as a schoolmaster, would have the right to plan the school network in its area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U76	Thank you. Dear Jürgen Ligi! I have been following your speeches, both today and last days, and I have to say that I really like how you feel about equality. And I hope that through education policy you will also get to our tax system with this concern. But my question does not concern the ongoing fight between you and private schools. You mentioned the OECD report and said that one point accurately reflects your views. It's that the school network needs to be organized faster. This means that schools must be shut down. It is clear today that if the municipality has one primary school, it is much better funded than if the municipality has two primary schools. We are undergoing a municipal reform and probably several municipalities who could join are worried about what happens to these schools. Will you change the funding scheme at the Ministry of Education so that the rural municipalities that meet do not find themselves in a more difficult financing situation because they retain several basic schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U77	Thank you. I reject any hint that we can apply the same principle of equality in the tax system as I seek and as the OECD seeks in education. It is unthinkable for us to impose a general tax, so that everyone pays equally, that is social Darwinism. In this case, half of the population, who currently does not pay any income tax, would probably be in debt prison and inequality in society would be very high. In education, I support what all honest politicians and analysts support so that social inequalities are not increased in the distribution of general money, that there are no advantages for the wealthier, that there are no advantages for their children, for the children of their own group leaders, for the wealthier children. On all of this, we are now debating that the voice of the stronger, i.e. the sound of the middle wealthier, as these people say themselves and as the OECD says about them, sounds too loud. This subject is over-enhancing. So in that sense, Mrs. Simson, let's think together! But what was your question again? [[Kadri Samson's line on the subject.]] Ah, local schools. We should never think that we know all the decisions made by local governments, but we should not underestimate their interest in making decisions that are beneficial to us. I think there will be many such decisions in the future. We will certainly look at the model of funding for schools, if there is any injustice during these mergers, but first and foremost, the planning of the school network is still in cooperation with the municipalities, not with the dictation of the government. The OECD highlights a good incentive for this model. This means that it helps local governments to make wise decisions. But yes, let's definitely review this picture when the municipalities have joined, i.e. whether additional government intervention is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U78	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U79	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I, too, believe that private schools should not, as the OECD report points out, really give priority to funding. So in that sense, I agree with you very much. However, this report stresses that funding for our kindergarten education is inadequate, that kindergarten teachers are underfunded and that this is, of course, directly reflected in the quality of learning. It is more useful to invest in an early age child, and later it will not bring back that much. How do you say we plan to improve this section of the pay gap for kindergarten teachers and the financing of kindergarten education?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U80	Thank you. That's a good question! Of course, I really liked the beginning of the question. I beg you very much to remember this when you vote in the Riigikogu. Now let me explain a little bit. The reference was to the OECD. The wealthier now have more advantages. It is the government's proposal to bring schools on an equal footing, i.e. the municipality is considering its own school network, everyone receives the same level of education support. This is all the same, but paid education still retains the advantages of freedoms and tuition. The OECD, to which you referred, recommends, whether over-repetitive, less private education, less education support or no operating support at all. It would be great if the Centre Party came along with these recommendations. I did not really touch on the subject of early childhood education here in the short term, but yesterday at this press conference I pointed out that the OECD is even more radical on many points. He is more radical on both early childhood education and the school network in this key, as I perceive he would like to reduce the role of the local level in deciding. I still wouldn't think of it. My general attitude is to strike a very clear distinction between responsibilities by cooperating with the local governments and ignoring this decision-making power from them. Local authorities should, however, have full control and full responsibility for such very near-home activities. This should be the topic of local government elections, not the topic of Riigikogu elections. We certainly cannot control early childhood education to the extent that local people, whose loved ones, children, are also able to take part in early childhood education. But the point is very correct, there has been a hint that maybe this country should have a slightly higher share.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U81	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is a pity that in the last couple of hours you have not reached the basic school and upper secondary school law which I recommended to you repeatedly yesterday and which states that private schools are funded on average. And then you could also give up your big lies that you've repeated several times today. But now to the OECD study. You always liked to talk as Minister of Finance about the parts of the research you remembered. But if we take a big picture, it is clear that it is very much similar to the so-called Masterplan of the hospital network, which, some time ago, created a situation where we turned health care upside down and closed down most of our health centres. Do you have confidence that closing such a large number of schools and collapsing the school network is really in the interests of the future of Estonian education?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U83	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U84	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! It has been estimated that 17% of children in general education have special educational needs. When I visit the school, I have seen that schools can handle these children in very different ways. Recently, I attended a small Laupa manor school in Türi parish. There was a class of co-editors with four students and a total of five teachers. They were very grateful to their parishes, who have provided them with such services. In your report, you briefly touched on the subject. My question is what are your specific proposals for the Ministry of Education to ensure that children with special educational needs have more uniform access to quality services.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U85	Thank you. Our most general but also very specific proposal is that the use of education support does not have to be so strictly regulated. I quote the OECD study 'Building the efficiency of the public sector: challenges and opportunities', to which Andrus Jõgi, adviser to the Financial Management Department of the Ministry of Finance, refers in one of his writings. Based on this experience, the Empiria, it can be concluded that the efficiency of the public sector can be enhanced in the decentralisation of political and fiscal decision-making powers at local level. Here is an example. Let's say that as an employer, you have a choice of how to compensate your employees for their careers, either to give them a 100-euro fuel card or to add it to your salary. The employee to whom you give a 100-euro fuel card will do everything to spend 100 euros in full and more by the end of the month, because the money has been given and it has to be spent. If you put 100 euros on a person's salary, he or she will look for more effective ways to get his or her things done, cycle, walk, or maybe give up unthinking driving. He's more effective. This is a simple example, which this same advisor, Andrus Jõgi, brings: if the use of the support is less regulated and the municipal rights are greater, it will find better use of the money. Municipalities will take their decisions within this framework. For example, the city of Tartu has always supported support specialists, also under the conditions of the country's turbulence financing. I dare say that this is one of the important factors why in the city of Tartu the drop-out rate is one of the smallest in Estonia, as far as I know. Because the things you're talking about are discovered at an early age and are already being dealt with in kindergarten, preschool, not just in general education. This is precisely the subject that if the municipality has a more free choice in making decisions, it will make the right decisions. We understand that children are the greatest value, and we all want the best development environment for our children. And one more thing, why I'm not with the Minister on education support. As far as general education schools are concerned, support is currently divided into two major areas: public education support and the contribution of the municipality. For kindergartens, there is a clear source of funding. All the money comes from one place and we are not saying that the kindergarten network is unorganized, that there are half-empty kindergartens or too large dependent boxes. Responsibility, money in a single place, and that's what makes adequate decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U86	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U87	Good manager! Good waitress, it was quite a pleasure to hear your presentation, especially in the light of the optimistic presentation by the previous Minister of Finance and the recreative presentation of the OECD report. I was actually gonna ask the Minister of Education, but unfortunately, the rule promises to ask the following man. But you're also the right man to answer the same question. The OECD has noted that the responsibility of the State and the local authorities is blurred. Why is he blurry and what can be done here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U88	Thank you. At the beginning of my presentation, I pointed out that there have been no substantive discussions in the Education Working Group of the Government of the Republic and the Council of Municipalities on educational issues in the last four years. So let us start with substantive discussions involving the Government of the Republic and the Council of Municipalities, and then we will try to reach agreements. One issue that has already been mentioned several times today is indeed a clear division of responsibility by level of education, who is responsible for which level of education. It must be clear and then it will be possible to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U89	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U90	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your very meaningful and honest presentation. I also recall that the waitress is actually a coalition politician. Thank you for your honesty. There was also a lot of talk about financing early childhood education and it was as if local authorities did not want to finance early childhood education or raise the wages of growers. The problem is somewhere else. But when I look at the table you have presented us, the city of Tartu alone has lost 3.7 million euros in the last three years because of the obligations that the country had to take over. I think that if this 3.7 million could have been paid out to teachers providing early childhood education, it would have helped to raise their salaries quite significantly in the city of Tartu. Why does the state act unilaterally with local authorities? I'll ask you straight. Much has been said about the fact that local authorities are willing to take over the operating costs of private schools...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U91	Tarmo Tamm, the first question took a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, While we're talking about school, I'd like to give you some school assignments. Think about what grade you'll get for them. This is basic school material. 'Bring two examples of how you apply the meaning of the bass key in life. Does the word "singing' consist of short or long syllables? Write an ellipse in which you use both ellipse and inversion. Read a sentence to your companion and ask him to assess its design. " These questions and tasks are taken from the list of tens of points from one of the teachers of the High School of the Evil. He claimed in his writing that even primary school teachers themselves could not answer the questions that basic school students had to answer according to the study and study programme. My point is that there's a lot of very useful things being taught at our school, but also a lot of things that people never need in life. Two and a half years ago, at the beginning of the 2013 new academic year, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education, called for a half less education, but let us teach half better! He explained that half the amount of material needed to be cut by half. I hope that the Ministry of Education will work consistently, and now, almost three years later, the Minister of Education can report to us very soon that the syllabus has been halved and children are taught half better, or half more interesting and creatively. When we are talking about funding education, the first question must, in my opinion, be exactly what we teach and how we teach, i.e. what we are still spending money to teach and whether we are wasting money and time to teach something. I'm saying we teach too much, the syllabuses are overloaded with unnecessary ballast, and the result is the overload of children and teachers. This kills both learning and teaching interests. Our children study seven or eight hours in comprehensive school and spend another three or four hours at home, a total of 12 hours a day. And then, after 12 hours of ellipses, inversions and bass keys, we want them to be happy. We must aim for a substantial reduction of the syllabus. The child should get all the schoolwork done at school. The Labour Act provides for an eight-hour working day for an adult and this should also be the limit of the child's working day. If this can be done by the Finnish school in its new curriculum, why can't we? Reducing the volume of syllabus and homework does not mean less knowledge and less education, but simply squandering unnecessary ballast out of the curriculum. Another and major topical concern is the choice of parents. The possibility of choosing a suitable school for your child means that the school network must be diverse. Our municipal schools provide good or very good education, generally and on average. But there are also bad municipal schools. And even if all municipal schools alone were very good, they would not offer sufficient choice to parents whose child needs a different school environment or a different way of teaching. Therefore, private schools must also be an integral part of our school network and must receive more or less the same support from the tax money as municipal schools. Our accident is that the word 'private school' relates to business for many. But in Estonia, private school is not a business, but only a private initiative, often a parent's own initiative to create their own school. Private school doesn't make a profit, he doesn't get a cent of dividends, because private schools are mostly run by non-profit organisations. All the money given to a private school goes to education for children, just like in municipal school. When the Minister of Education here said that private schools receive operating aid or subsidies from the state at all 1.6 times more than municipal schools, and explained that the average cost in the country is higher than in some local governments, the solution is one very simple move: a legislative amendment must be made to ensure that schools are supported according to the average of the local government rather than according to the national average. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union have presented this proposal to the Committee on Culture, the Minister of Education for some reason not. Finally, a few words about the most important issue that connects education funding to the pay of teachers. The Government Union has set itself the objective of raising teachers' salaries to at least 120% of the national average wage. The Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance will fully support this targeting device. Raising the pay of teachers is a priority, but this task cannot be carried out at the expense of other important tasks. Just as we cannot deprive children of warm school meals in order to raise teachers' salaries, so it is not right to take money at the expense of other important educational costs for teachers to raise their salaries, whether they relate to support services, educational resources, investments or operating costs for private schools. These things can't be reversed. There are certainly big savings in the education system, but apart from austerity, our goal must be to give more money to the education sector, not just to reallocate scarce money within the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U93	Thank you. Honourable MP Ernits! The format of the crucial national issue has, in many ways, raised this issue to the Commission. On the basis of these proposals, the number of questions has also been set here. For my part, in order to be able to ask in time, you just have to press the button earlier. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U94	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, In October 2013, the National Audit Office published its report on the management of education investments. According to the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Education and Research does not have a clear and agreed understanding of how many educational institutions should be provided and where they should be located. Similarly, it is considered that, as a result, education has not always been invested in the right objects that will be most needed in the future. There is no certainty that the maintenance of all buildings will be managed in the future. Do you think anything's changed in those few years? Why am I asking that? In some cases, both the National Audit Office and the public know that the school space is awfully over, but in reality new state secondary schools are being established without any other school space being pulled together or something being broken down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U95	Thank you for your question. As you referred to in the question, time has moved on, the situation has changed. I completely agree with you, but unfortunately I have to stick to the same position of the National Audit Office that we expressed in our audit report in 2013. What the school network should be, where the most sensible schools are, and which buildings are needed for this, is still not clear at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U96	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U97	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U98	If we continue with the concerns of secondary education, one issue that we have not been able to discuss more widely today is the future of the state exams. The confusion with the state examinations is certainly not what we could say in the Riigikogu that it has been resolved. The subject is dealt with politically, dissent is not to be heard, but today's students and graduates are particularly affected. There is another subject that cannot be left out in any way. This is related to Russian-speaking schools, where 60:40 systems were subjected to force. The consequence is that there is a teacher and a student in the class, who often cannot demonstrate the full potential. It is difficult for a teacher to pass on his or her substance 100% and for a student to acquire the maximum amount of the substance. In fact, our goal is for young people to be educated and to speak very good Estonian. To achieve this result, we do not need to teach mathematics in Estonian, for example. We simply need to be able to motivate young people to learn the Estonian language very well and carry out engaging Estonian lessons. The shortcomings of the current system are explained by the studies carried out, which show that learning more serious subjects in Estonian has in practice brought down learning outcomes. That is why I see the only solution to losing the percentage system in this form and the systematic, very rigorous and real control of the acquisition of the Estonian language, as a result of which a young person would already be able to master the Estonian language, for example, 5. Estonian free in class. When I come to creative education, I am sincerely grateful that alongside the closure and privatisation of sports and many art schools, music schools were largely preserved. The preservation of the music education system is crucial precisely because it is only early start and systematic work that leads to the top here. Therefore, I think that music schools in Estonia could also be financed separately in addition to other recreational education. I could talk about a number of other issues, but I will conclude with a major change. We are planning to change the education system for all children with special needs. The state has decided that all children with lighter disabilities must be brought back to the normal school system, i.e. everyone who is currently studying under simplified curriculum programmes must go to a regular school. According to the plan, the state will only deal with children with medium and severe disabilities. I would point out that it was only a few years ago that systematic funding for support services was stopped in mainstream schools. The transfer of a simplified curriculum to a regular school can, however, clearly rely on strong support specialists that we do not have in all schools. Here I propose that the training of children with special needs be changed only after we have seriously and properly assessed the changes. Thank you very much for your attention and the strength to work with us to think about how to advance education!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U99	Kalle Muuli on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U100	No further questions. Thank you, Airi Mikli, representative of the National Audit Office! I'm opening negotiations. As proposed by the Committee on Culture, representatives of the political groups will take the floor first. The Centre Party Group has announced that the representative of their group is Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U101	Thank you very much for this question. This is a very important and fundamental issue. The largest vocational school in the Republic of Estonia, Tartu Vocational Education Centre, is located in Tartu. It's a municipal school. I am not going to talk about this for a long time, but we are not friends with the Ministry of Education on this issue. Again, we believe that our VET centre should be treated the same way as national vocational schools, for example, in terms of investment and also in terms of the European Union Structural Funds. In my opinion, there are some problems with vocational schools. We want vocational education and training to be more flexible in relation to real life, i.e. changes in the labour market and the economy. At present, curricula in vocational schools continue to be rigid. Another central issue, in my opinion, is the link with practice. If you look at the report published by the OECD yesterday, I have only read it briefly, then there is a very clear emphasis on early school leaving and poor career guidance before vocational school, i.e. wrong decisions are made. But we also see people with master's degree studying in our vocational schools and saying that they are now happy and get a specialty that really suits them. So it's career counseling, making the right decisions. It also relates to traineeships, pre-vocational training and traineeships. The role of internship is small. I believe that one serious issue that the Riigikogu could discuss is the transition to the so-called dualistic system in vocational education. If we take, for example, Germany, Austria or Switzerland, then there is a professional student who basically spends half the period of study in the company. Our big problem is that when graduates of vocational schools go to the labour market, they are good at their knowledge. Vocational schools have built up proper training bases for European Union money and knowledge is available, but what you do not get in vocational schools is precisely social skills, which are nevertheless very, very important for applying knowledge. The Confederation of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce have examined these problems. Things come out like knowing the time, working with colleagues, speaking, being loyal, good, and hardworking. You can still pick up these things in a particular collective, working in a company. Plus, of course, the opportunity to realize your skills in practice. I think the time is ripe to start seriously thinking about the transition to a dualist vocational education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U102	Thank you, Urmas Glass! The time for questions and answers ran out a long time ago. Dear Riigikogu, before we go to the next report, we need to make a procedural decision on the working time of the sitting. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Culture to extend the working time of today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There were 46 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no respondents or abstentions. Working hours have been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Now, as a waitress, I would like to ask Airi Mikli, Chief Auditor of the Local Government Audit Department of the National Audit Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! Since we are talking about education today, it is quite appropriate to ask whether the public money spent on education has been used honestly and whether the best education has been achieved. Annual audits by the National Audit Office show that money has generally been spent on the things for which it was intended. I stress: spent. However, we would like to know whether the quality of education can be improved or kept at the same level in a situation where the number of children is falling and whether the funding for education is sustainable if the money for education needs to be increased from year to year. Given which of the draft laws on education are pending in the Riigikogu, I will focus on general education today. Financing general education from public money is a matter for the state. For this purpose, the money comes from two sources: the state budget, including the municipal education grant, and the municipal budget, out of the costs which are borne by the municipality and for which the state does not or does not fully allocate the money. The curriculum framework will be set by the state. The local government usually takes care of the place where to study, what is inside the schoolhouse, and hires the necessary staff. The local authorities' education grant of EUR 237 million this year is strictly targeted in nature, especially since 2014 when the new basic law of the state budget tightened the conditions for the use of the grant money. The education allowance pays the salaries of teachers, while the average wage level of teachers sets a target of 120% of the national average wage. Moving towards it is guaranteed by the minimum salary of a nationally designated teacher, which is EUR 958 in 2016. The current system of financing general education continues to be characterised by an infinite dispute between the state and the local authorities, whether or not the money is given enough. There is mutual distrust between the state and local governments. It is suspected that money will not be used exactly as the giver has thought, or that any change will lead to an additional obligation, which is not money. Let us recall the passionate debate on the financing of school support services. In different years, the state had different approaches to the payment of wages from education support to specialists providing support services, from tacit consent to explicit prohibition. By the way, we are talking about money that only affected about 1% of the total amount of education allowance. There's been a lot of talk about one thing. Speaking of better quality of general education and more sustainable funding, the term'school networking' has been used. Against this background, I have sometimes encountered the attitude of local governments that if a school disappears from the municipality, life and people will also disappear. I know the local government leaders who have linked the promise to build a new and bigger school to the campaign cart, ignoring the obvious trends in the economy and the world. Unfortunately, families have disappeared from many places, but schools often remain. More specifically, the students are gone, but the teachers are still there. The effectiveness of the use of educational money is characterised by the ratio of students to one teacher. While in general one teacher per student can be considered to be the optimal ratio for completion of the curriculum, the Estonian average is 12.75 students, and in at least the last eight years this ratio has not changed despite some tightening of the school network. Two thirds of municipalities, i.e. 141 municipalities, are those where there are only up to ten students per teacher. The optimal or higher student-teacher ratio is currently only the tenth of 213 municipalities. Another point regarding the sustainability of the financing of general education. If the wage increase of teachers next year requires an increase of EUR 30 million, the calculations show that this money is roughly the same as the savings that would be achieved by improving the student-teacher ratio at the current level of education support. Based on the average salaries for 2015, the number of teachers could be optimised by raising their average wage to 126% compared to the national average, i.e. the target set would have been achieved. Given the number of children, we should have several thousand fewer teachers. Why, then, has the method chosen by the State in the form of targeted education support not worked or led to an optimal school network? All of this has been brought to the attention, by the way, in the OECD report published yesterday, to the stretching of the school network and to the excessive number of teachers. Firstly, by choosing a regulatory and guiding path in the organisation of funding, the State has not really wanted to fully implement the proposed levers. To clarify: student education allowance consists of a bounty (EUR 1229 this year) multiplied by a coefficient determined by municipalities, which means that smaller municipalities with under-filled classes receive more than twice as much money per student as the large municipalities of Tallinn and Tartu or the so-called golden circle. In addition, there are a number of other important factors that are measured to the accuracy of a cent in each wallet. Unfortunately, the coefficient, as a criterion of truth, has also led to examples where, in the pursuit of optimal solutions, municipalities have actually lost their financial resources. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, the aim of such a weaker distribution of money is to ensure that children are educated in a basic school close to home. Such a goal setting is reasonable, but unfortunately, the Ministry has not defined which criteria a elementary school close to home must meet for a child. Since it has been left entirely at the mercy of local governments, it has gone so far that all existing schools are close to home. In practice, the current funding system, with its coefficients, works against the optimal development of the school network. In any event, if the municipality wishes to run a school, the State must paradoxically assist it with targeted money, i.e. with money that can be used for strictly intended purposes to maintain the school. In order to prevent this reasoning from being inconsiderate of children living in small municipalities, I express my thoughts on the relationship between pupils and teachers with numbers and on access to basic education. In fact, 152 municipal schools, or 53% of all municipal schools, are those where there are only up to ten pupils per teacher and where, when measured linearly, there is another general education school within a 10 km radius. In the light of all of this, I will once again talk about rigid targeted education support as a problematic phenomenon, not as a solution. So, more than half of the low teacher-student relationship near schools is located in another school. If the municipality wanted to drive children from one of these schools nearby, for example, a school in a neighbouring municipality, the municipality would not be allowed to use educational support for this purpose. I do not know how many municipalities have therefore denied such an idea, as the cost of school transport is almost 100 times lower than the cost of schooling. Estimates show that municipalities with between one and five pupils per teacher spend about 4% of schooling's operating costs on school transport. In municipalities with between six and ten pupils per teacher, the figure is 2%. The question arises as to what added value it brings if the money used by rural municipalities to carry out a self-governing task has been targeted according to strict rules as a provision for the state budget, rather than being included in the general revenue base, so that the municipality can decide for itself how best to organise the task. One reason is that the state would lose control, the municipalities would take advantage of it and the money would not go to education. This story seems to me to be very familiar with the close past, when local road savings money was still a separate grant in the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The fear that salaries for teachers would go to other costs and the increase in teachers' salaries, compared to the average wage in the country, would not be achieved, does not seem justified. The calculations of the National Audit Office show that the average wage of the teacher is already higher than the overall average of the state in 117 municipalities, i.e. 55% in municipalities. And it is not only about larger and richer municipalities, but also about Veriora or the municipality of Lasva, for example. It is true that this kind of salary is paid mostly in municipalities that have organized their school network. However, I would like to add an example that gives two thoughts. In a competitive manner, the teacher's average salary in Sauga municipality is the highest of EUR 1711 in 2015, but it is an anomaly and possible only in the form of a crime of educational allowance coefficients. I do not think that anything would happen to exempt education support from the status of strictly earmarked money. The state should have such confidence in the local governments that when it comes to fulfilling its task, it also has the courage to give responsibility. This is particularly the case where we hope that the administrative reform will result in municipalities that have all the necessary conditions to carry out their tasks. Another idea is how to motivate municipalities to make teachers' salaries worthy of their work. Do you still remember the short-term principle in the field of early childhood education that if the municipality raises the pay of kindergarten teachers to 85% of the minimum wage for teachers in general education, the state will pay the municipality half of the money that has gone up to pay? Although such a principle could apply for a short period of time, it motivated municipalities to raise wages. Which municipality wouldn't want to take the money? We consider that another increase in teachers' salaries is to be found at EUR 30 million. However, by applying this principle, the desired result could be achieved with half the money, offering municipalities that raise teachers' salaries to a certain level, part of the money, and two things at a time: a better pay for teachers and an optimal teacher-student relationship. Then perhaps it would be possible to combat schemes where some salaries or performance fees have not been paid to teachers for their work at municipal school, not from the school budget, but from a private foundation operating outside the school, which collects so-called donations from parents. Now back to the subject of the school network. Municipalities have not been able to agree on which schools it is worthwhile to contribute to and what kind of housing should be stopped. This inability has been caused by a number of factors, starting with the mistakes of the financing system discussed above, the small size of the municipalities and the desire to draw more onto them, up to people-to-people tensions. What, though, is the result of this disagreement? In my opinion, the municipalities have shown this to be an inability to manage education. At the same time, I am convinced that, if the municipality is of sufficient size and background to provide the appropriate level of education, deciding on the location and maintenance of the school is clearly a self-governing issue. If the municipalities do not find the strength to do so, the state will have no choice but to take these decisions. I do not think I am wrong to say that it is precisely these reasons that forced the Ministry of Education and Research to decide to establish a state gymnasium in each county centre by 2023 and to take a step forward, which in itself is not necessarily directly linked to the scheme for the establishment of state gymnasiums. In the new draft Education Act, the tasks of the state and local government are divided so that upper secondary schools become the responsibility of the state. As the explanatory memorandum to the draft law describes the positive side of this decision, here are some aspects which, in my opinion, may cause problems, including in the context of the administrative reform that has been put into operation. It is regrettable that sectoral reforms are moving their way without taking the tides off for a moment to take account of the changing situation. The draft law on administrative reform aims to create strong and capable municipalities, with the idea of giving more tasks to capable municipalities. Following the extent to which most municipalities are already negotiating voluntary accession, the objective of administrative reform is very likely to be achieved. Therefore, the approach by which the provision of upper secondary school education is defined as a national task will be forward-looking in the context of the administrative reform, as it is unknown which new municipalities will form and where their lines of power will run. For example, the city of Saue and Saue, Nissi and Kernu had dramatic accession negotiations. When a new municipality is formed, its centre is located in Saue city, while the location of a state gymnasium in Harjumaa has already been decided before, it comes to Saue rural municipality centre in Laagri. Nor is it known what the effect of state secondary schools on the maintenance of municipal comprehensive schools. State upper secondary schools are commended, and certainly fairly, saying that there will be taught by the best teachers. However, often those teachers who go to state secondary schools can be the best of the current so-called plumbing schools at both levels, both in upper secondary and primary schools. As of October 2014, there were a total of 3069 teachers in 150 municipal schools who gave lessons in both primary and upper secondary schools. There's always a shortage of good teachers. However, in the context of the quality of education, I cannot think of an example taken from real life, where one teacher can teach 14 subjects in a single school. Today, when we talk about funding education, we cannot get past the issue of private schools. Although there are still school places, some parents who have decided to choose a private school are dissatisfied. It is also important to think about what needs to be changed so that those who are legally obliged to attend school can provide a pleasant and diverse education. Now, briefly, about the content of education. How can we measure whether the Estonian school and education are the best possible for the millions they say? The belief in rankings for people is eloquent for Estonian children with high PISA test places. However, if you look at studies about children's joy at school, or the lack of it, so as not to even talk about fear or stress at school, the results are quite different. Why are many children unhappy at school, or why are they not interested in being taught at school? This is well explained by Priit Ratassepp, teacher of the Tallinn Kuristu Upper Secondary School, in the article "Why are Estonian schoolchildren not happy? '. He writes that the learning basis is the student's interest in what he learns, but in many Estonian schools everything starts at the wrong end, the subject-centred curriculum does not address children. I would add that, perhaps, in some parts of the school, there is a distance to life, the teaching tools and methods do not correspond to the state of technology and the world view that children encounter during their leisure and outside school. I apologize to the teachers who go along with the times and look through the eyes of the young people of the world! I also point out that good education begins from student selection to teacher education, the reputation of the teaching profession in society, the skilful choice of employees of very good school leaders, the school environment. Many schools lack professionals with professional skills supporting children and teachers. The creation and preference of a number of private schools by some parents is related to dissatisfaction that the teacher's focus in class is on troubled children, and the rest of them do not have much to do with it. The teacher has to teach in class and should not be in the classroom alone if there are children who need additional help or attention. Of course, there must be money. But in all of this, a good education begins with a more general foundation on which you can rely, from the values that knowledge gives you the knowledge of who you are. In summary, I believe that there is room for better use of taxpayers' money in financing general education. It should start by optimising the relationship between teachers and pupils, by ending the targeted distribution of education support and the rigid use of the facilities, by giving higher responsibilities to school holders. Money should be able to be used in such a way that the result of the money is important. The result should also be taken into account in the organisation of education more generally, depending on the local government landscape in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U104	Questions for the representative of the National Audit Office, Auditor General of the Local Government Audit Department, Airi Mikli. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U105	Good manager and waitress! I shall first address the President of the sitting. In my opinion, the absurd situation is: a matter of national importance, there are four wise people to answer, and there are up to two questions for each of these people. I wanted to ask the minister, but I had to ask the mayor, etc. I will now ask the same question, but also the representative of the National Audit Office. Please state three reasons why the state still mistrusts the municipalities and what should be done to put an end to this absurd situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U106	Thank you for your question. I think that perhaps the most important thing is not to turn to history and start to recall the reasons why relations between local governments and the state have increased in some places or why there is a misunderstanding between them. I think we should keep looking. This means that both sides should be clearly aware of what their task is, and at both levels they should also have all the responsibilities and resources involved. If we look at the negotiations between the municipalities and the government delegation and read these protocols, how many really are there to negotiate and how many places are there where each of them is holding up their positions? I think there's a lot to be done on both sides to build trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U107	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U108	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Mihkel Raud, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for Mrs Mikli, and I also thank you for this very good overview. Recently, however, you had another audit and it was about municipal facilities. There is a lack of kindergarten places and the queues are not transparent. This, of course, applies to Tallinn and its surroundings. Now we are in such a paradoxical situation that in one place we have to shut down general education schools and in another there are no kindergarten places. That is why I ask whether we, as a country, have a more general view of how the population is moving. In the fight against peripheralization, we have often been losers. Will this concentration ever stop on the North Coast, at least stabilize? Do we have to think about building retirement homes there, or are we going back to the country? It seems to me that we have failed to predict this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U110	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U111	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! Your presentation made it very clear that our municipalities are sitting there on the tip of the country's teat, and that is what has caused this indecisiveness. You said you've analyzed the number of students per teacher. I imagine it's a pretty simple mathematical operation. Have you analyzed the optimal number of students per teacher so that a student would work in a class that would help him continue in life? I have another question. As far as private schools are concerned, there is a very big dispute over the maintenance of real estate, which is more expensive and who sustains it at a lower cost. Have you compared state real estate companies, private owners, local governments in this respect? Who's got a more expensive real estate store and who's cheaper? What are these ratios?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U112	Thank you for your question. The first question was what could be the relationship between a teacher and students who provided quality education. Optimal is considered to be 15 here. I agree with you in this sense that it is based, of course, on average calculations, but each school is different and each child's needs are different. But there's something about the average. If we take this aside, for example, the ratio of the performance of the class, then it is a clear trend that this figure has always decreased in Estonia. This means that we are using our resources inefficiently. And I think it will ultimately also have an impact on the quality of education. The second question concerned whether the National Audit Office has carried out an audit comparing the operating costs of private schools and the costs of the State Real Estate Company. We have not carried out such an audit, because we are not able to audit private schools. The National Audit Office controls only users of public money, i.e. the state and local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U113	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! In the context of yesterday's Forum, how do your presentation today and the conclusions of yesterday's Forum, if any, match?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U115	Yesterday's Forum touched on private schools, today we are talking about financing education in general. If we compare proportions, private schools play only a small part in this compared to public schools. If the time had been longer, I would certainly have talked more about the problem of financing private schools, but now I have confined myself to the main issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you very much for your very substantive presentation. Indeed, many of the positions that we have also reached in the Committee on Culture have been reaffirmed. For example, this lack of trust in relations with local government and the link between teachers' salaries. However, I have a slightly broader question. Today, there is quite a considerable, even exceptionally large amount of European money that goes into education. If we recall the time of the crown, these are the mysterious millions that are now being distributed to the general education system. Has anyone asked the National Audit Office how it would be wise to share them so that in two or four years' time, for example, it should not be said that unfortunately these investments have gone again as always?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U117	Dear Mr. Speaker! Dear colleagues! Good guests! Today it has been said how, what and how much Estonia needs to finance in education. It has been spoken in a very broad, well-argued, has been spoken accurately and has been spoken in detail. Allow me to move away from this pattern, though for a moment from the pattern that is necessary in every way, and perhaps even to try to spread out and imagine why it is necessary to finance education, why it is necessary not only to talk about funding education but also to actually finance it. As far as my limited parliamentary experience allows me to predict, in the coming weeks and months, something else will happen. We agree completely with each other in this Chamber and on the premises of the Riigikogu Committee. We pledge our unwavering allegiance to the plan of radical reform of the financing of education. After today's meaningful debate, we feel once more and more important than the rubber stamp that we are generally regarded as. At one point, however, an official of the Ministry of Finance arrives and reports: all that you spoke about in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu on 7 April 2016 is right and nice, but there is no money and there is no money. And we, at least a part of us, are powerless in our hands and we are wailing at each other's shoulders in the cafeteria of the Riigikogu or in the smoke room, how absolutely nothing is understood by the Ministry of Finance. Maybe they won't, but maybe we're just talking to them in the wrong language. Because, you see, dear friends, the rhetoric we're using today in this Chamber when we talk about education is the rhetoric of soft people, it's the rhetoric of saloon socialists and armchairs, pocket preserves and spare radicals. This rhetoric is boring, it is out when used as an English word. Let us try the rhetoric that sounds more credible in today's harsh world. Let's talk about strong categories, talk about death and survival, talk about defense expenses that all of our eyes usually go cold in their sleep zone. In fact, it is very simple; expenditure on education is nothing less than defence expenditure. We do not need protection from Russians and homosexuals, Syrians or feminists; we need protection from our own ignorance and stupidity. It is our greatest enemy, it is our only real security threat, it is our main obstacle on the road to a decent life that should reach all households here on an equal footing. Estonia's biggest enemy is an uneducated Estonian. The educated Estonian, on the other hand, is the only reason why the people try to keep this country up with their tax and better-attractive work. An educated person can think critically, an educated person asks and, more importantly, can ask questions. The educated person not only can read but also reads, and he does not only read the lens.ee and the Rossisker Gazeta, but also the Estonian Päevaleht and the New York Times or vice versa. An educated person is not subject to foreign propaganda attacks with the kind of greed that so many of us are subjected to today. An educated person will not allow the anger they are desperately trying to instill in us today. An educated person doesn't get school bullied, just as appallingly many of us are bullying the weakest and the other today. Speaking of bullying at school, it's a bigger problem than we think it is, and it's a bigger metaphor than we think it is. A few weeks ago, photos of a young man who is on trial for making a death threat to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas appeared in the Estonian press. Those photos were startling. These photographs were not viewed by a self-confident oss, such as the Odin warriors, who are now planning chin-ups for foreign students. Photos of the man who threatened to kill the Prime Minister were not breezy or charlesmansonically making blood freeze. These photos were startling for a completely different reason. There was something inherently tragic, something fundamentally sad. These strikingly sad photos depicted a young man who probably had parents and stronger schoolmates in the boys' room in the middle of his peeing in the middle of his knee and called out something lame to confirm his masculinity. From these photographs, we were stared at by the most styled stereotype of a man who had been bullied at school. From these photographs, it was as if a mirror image of the joyous whole picture of the people who have been bullied by the state for the last few decades. Now it's shouting back to the country of the school-hungry. He promises to kill every single refugee whose country lets him into his backyard. He promises to castrate anyone he suspects of homosexuality. He promises to hang all the villains and villains who have shoveled public money in their deep pockets. He promises a terrible end to all who are guilty of his unjust lack of happiness, and he promises to call on Vladimir Putin if the situation demands it. And what will the country from which we expect educated, informed, and wise action do? He's declaring that school-criminal criminal, he's labeling him Nazi, he's ashamed of him. He behaves just as uneducated and foolish as the one he judges, and of course it does not solve the problem. It will be resolved, or at least it will help us to understand, that what we did here today was not yet another completely pointless and interesting discussion of any unimportant national issue, but it was a very important matter, perhaps the only important thing left at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U118	Thank you for your question. We have not analysed the situation of separate Russian schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U119	The National Audit Office makes its own audits according to the work plan and very many target groups really make proposals on which audits to carry out. I can assure you that we are having a wide-ranging audit of the use of European Union money in all key areas of state life. It will not be completed in the near future, it has only just begun, but we will certainly control the use of European money, and we will also look at how reasonably it has been used in the processes that are currently present in education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U120	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U121	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, The mayor of Tartu has again today highlighted problems in the model of distribution of education support. I've known them for years or look at them for decades. For example, the fact that education support is not evenly distributed among municipalities with similar indicators does not take into account the real cost of schooling, teachers' labour costs are not growing in proportion to the increase in the minimum wage, etc. Has the National Audit Office ever dealt with this topic, or is it going to deal with it? It seems that the Ministry of Education has not done this either under the current Minister's leadership or, to be recognised, under the leadership of previous ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U122	Thank you, questioner! This problem was addressed not only by the mayor of Tartu in his presentation, but I also spoke about it for quite a while in my presentation and gave examples where this coefficient has given a very unreasonable result. Yes, indeed, because of the unique world of these coefficients, for example, some of the municipalities that joined in 2013 received much less money than they would have received education support if they lived separately. The National Audit Office pays attention to the model of financing education in one of its audits, which concerns the financing model of local governments in general. It deals, above all, with the ongoing administrative reform and the important issues concerning the funding and tasks of local authorities in the future when we already have new municipalities. There will certainly also be funding for education in our field of vision as one of the largest and most important areas of local government activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U123	Thank you for your question. The National Audit Office has not carried out such a study or audit so that I can answer when the movement to the North Coast could stop. It is clear that urbanisation and concentration in large cities are a global trend. Could anything change in Estonia and how could this situation be brought to an end or redesigned? I see that one way is through administrative reform. I think that stronger municipalities could provide the missing kindergarten places, as well as other services that are missing on the outskirts, and this could improve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U124	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U125	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! The OECD report specifically highlights the situation in Russian schools. The problem is that there are not enough people who speak Estonian well and the quality of education suffers. In your analysis, have you analysed the situation of Russian schools separately, whether they are financially unequal or not? What are the factors that international organisations observe?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U126	Thank you. That's a very good question. That's the way we should think, right in that key, like you asked, the good questioner. And all the suggestions I put forward here are borne out by that idea. I am convinced that local authorities can and can make the best decisions on the organisation of schools on the ground and also on the quality of education. Of course, there are curricula, etc., but when we talk about school arrangements, about the opportunities of schoolkeepers, he still needs to have the freedom to make decisions in the interests of his children. But I'd like to take a step forward on this subject that you asked me about and talk about curriculum development. In my opinion, our curricula are overloaded, they are overloaded with mandatory substances. Both in upper secondary school and already in primary school, students should have greater discretion in drawing up their curriculum. I would certainly stress the subject of education of interest in the context of today's presentation. This measure, which is currently under preparation, is in principle a very good measure. We should talk more about the availability of recreational education, precisely because there are unacceptably large differences between regions, so that the student has a better development environment. If we look at PISA tests, for example, we can see that from the three components of education, the skills, knowledge and creativity are skills and knowledge very good for our children, but with regard to creativity, the results could be better. Now, that's the subject of hobby education and decision-making.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U127	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr Mayor, for your very clear views. I was really happy to hear them. My question concerns Tartu. We talked about Tartu gymnasiums and Tartu's excellent school network. But vocational education is also provided in Tartu. As mayor of Tartu, and as well as a person who knows Tartu's educational and cultural life, what do you think about the popularity of studying in Tartu and outside Tartu in the vocational education system?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! As a member of the Committee on Long-Term Culture, I am really very pleased that we are discussing education as an important national issue. But according to the opposition, I'd like to start with a little criticism. I must agree with Professor Ülo Vooglaiu's criticism both of today's debate and, more broadly, of our work, that we are discussing again the small corners, but we are not yet ready to understand the big, paradigmatic change in education. We have also not been able to find the systemic gaps in education or the key points where we need to complement anything. So it is understandable that, in the current situation, the issue of money is what is most understandable in society. Therefore, most of the controversial decisions in education have not so far been based on substance and, unfortunately, will not be taken in the future. That's something we can't really be proud of. But let's start at the very beginning of early childhood education. On the one hand, we are proud of the well-prepared and in-service training that we have in early childhood education. Our strong point is also our parents' high confidence in early childhood education. I recall that 94.3% of all children attended pre-school institutions in 2014. However, savings are a concern for our early childhood education. I certainly agree here with what has been said today about teachers' pay problems. The National Audit Office has a very good proposal, which we all actually support, that there should be a uniformly agreed national minimum, which the state could then, for example, add a percentage, because currently teachers' salaries vary considerably. Another concern is savings in content. Only barely a year ago, the same Riigikogu made a change by which it changed the so-called three-adult principle that was formally in force so far in kindergarten, which, more specifically, meant that there were two teachers and one assistant teacher. Now it says that there are three adults, which is why today, unfortunately, in many kindergartens, there are two assistant teachers and one teacher. The next level of early childhood education is basic education, where fundamental changes are urgently needed. We propose to discuss the full day school system once more. This system already links children to education at school, so there is no need to find and re-invent new educational programmes. This system has spread in the Nordic countries and in many other European countries, which set an example for us. Sports, music, engineering and art education is offered at school after hours. It will reveal and further develop the talents of all children, which may not be immediately manifested in normal school hours. This means that children whose hobbies or interests have not yet developed and whose strengths have not yet been demonstrated will also have a success experience. Such a system would certainly also solve the problem of a long-standing frame of study in education, as teachers who had to run three schools to get full-time will now be burdened with activities of interest and after-schooling at their own school. If secondary education is to be taken into account, political decisions must definitely be stopped at the expense of the content of education. One of the saddest examples of such political decisions is the granting of public investment to municipalities only if they come with a new initiative. Here, for example, the ideas of state secondary schools may be mentioned, but they may be seen again in the future. In contrast, I can call here systemic public investment, which we remember only a few years ago, and which was clearly more transparent. In the case of state secondary schools, their preferential funding is also a major concern. After all, it is extremely dangerous for state secondary schools to live at the expense of other schools in the future. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U130	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I speak here as a politician, as a colleague, but above all as a father, a father who has sent one child to school and the other goes there in the autumn. The world has changed a lot since I went to school. It is more open, complex and larger, which sets its expectations. But what can he become? What should I want from the education system? What should I bet on as a parent? There are many more questions than answers. In order to know what we want from the school and the teacher, we must have the courage to set goals for society at large. Much has been said over the last decade that we need to get out of the subcontracting stage, we need smart jobs and we need people. But have we also formulated this objective more specifically and agreed on what tasks will come from here to school, what role is the teacher's and what kind of family's? It is quite logical that if we strive for smart jobs, the objectives and policies of the school cannot be the same as those of sub-contractors with cheap labour. Rather, we expect more creativity than discipline, consideration of different talents, not training standard skills. We also understand that people are very different, and that is a good thing. In order to develop these individual differences, a different approach is needed, as it is only in this way that the best results can be achieved. That means we need different schools. One of the most outstanding pedagogical scientists in Estonia, Johannes Käis, a Põlvamaa man active in the first half of the 20th century, has written: "The stronger individuality in a single person, the richer society is. " In doing so, he had in mind the students'personality as a whole. In particular, he considered it necessary to activate students in teaching, which is achieved by giving them a greater share of their independent work. The teacher's work will not be reduced, but his share of the class will change. Alongside individual work, group work and group training were also promoted. At the same time, Käs was opposed to the exclusive use of one of the techniques. He stressed that there was no one common, only proper way of learning. He considered the personality of the teacher, whom he called the soul of the school to be decisive. We need to think about an education system that takes account of every child. In order for us to be able to offer a variety of opportunities, the school network must be affordable, i.e. also taking into account regional specificities. Comparing the figures is quite unnecessary if we do not pursue a common understanding and goal. In this way, the widespread statement that private schools are financed 1.6 times more cannot be true in any way. Firstly, the state does not finance schools, but allocates funds to local authorities. That's the way it's always been done. Secondly, the costs of schools are very different, and the budgets of schools that are very similar externally and very similar in size may vary twice. If you hadn't experienced it personally, you wouldn't dare say so. As Põlva County Elder, I visited Himmaste Elementary School. There, 17 students studied in a four - grade historical school building, where the first schoolmaster was the national grandpa named Jakob Hurda. A nice four-grade elementary school. I also visited my neighbors in Tartu County, visited Unipiha Elementary School in Kambja municipality. The school building and the number of children were the same, but this school had composite classes, an incredibly pleasant environment. Both schools were municipal schools, while the budget costs were twice as high in Himmaste. More about the numbers in Põlva County, because I know a little more about them. If 2007/2008. During the academic year, 3783 students studied in the county school network, and now they only study in 2572 - over 1,200 in eight years. I predicted in 2008 that this year 2,733 children were studying in the county. In fact, as I said, there are fewer than one large primary school in just 2572 than the trend of the day allowed. This is also the reason for the migration referred to in the Minister's presentation. The school network has not, of course, responded to such a change. The number of students has fallen in all schools except at the John School in Rosmal, where 41 students studied eight years ago, and 87 students this year. This is not a district school; here students from 13 municipalities from three counties, Põlva, Võru and Tartu County attend Waldorf education. This school is also one reason why some families with children have moved to Põlvamaa. Although the school space is well over in Põlva, some time ago the cornerstone was placed on the building of the state gymnasium in Põlva and there is still a lot more space. I hope that we will get back quite quickly to the fact that it is up to local authorities to organise and take responsibility for upper secondary school education. I am convinced that, given Estonia's small size and differences, it makes sense to be able to share on the spot what kind of school network there is, whether it is reasonable to have a full cycle school, a progymnasium and upper secondary school together or all levels separately. In different places, the need and sensible solution are certainly different. The figures of Põlva County show this, where the school children of the whole county could fit into two to three schools in Tallinn. There are 19 schools in Põlva County. There is hardly a person in this Chamber who believes that a good result can be achieved by hitting one tree. We all face the challenge of reaching a common understanding of the content of education and the organisation of the school network, given political differences, regional policy and much more. This is not an easy task. At least three of my good acquaintances have been decommissioned from the position of parish elder because of the organization of the school network. The school network cannot reasonably be organised at local level alone. We have the opportunity to set criteria in the Education Act. It is not easy, but it is, in my opinion, an indispensable task. Yeah, we're working on organizing the school network, shutting down a few schools. Unfortunately, what we are not doing is what parents expect from school education. There are tails behind the doors of schools without a service area, and private schools are added to the educational landscape. It's not the cause of the disease, it's the symptom. The reason for the illness is here, we in Toompea, the Ministry of Education and Research, where there is no desire between them, it also seems that the ability to anticipate the content of education. It's possible it's caused by fear. When we define parents' expectations and the need for society, it may become apparent that they are not reflected in the results of the PISA test. It may appear that more money is missing than we think at the moment. Thanks to the Committee on Culture and the strength for our work and serious discussions in the future!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U131	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U132	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! I think today's debate on education, rather the question of how education should be financed, is a very important initiative on a long road. After all, we are not expecting or hoping that we will be able to give final answers or to shape positions here today. We can fix a number of issues, raise new questions and say what we are working on. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I can assure you that our committee is seeking consensus on many things, we want the best for the Estonian school system. Turning to my Group of the Estonian Free Party, I must say that they do not know what I am talking about now. So many points of view, first and foremost, are made on my own behalf. I'm really sorry we've only had time to talk about money today. But since the whole school and education system really is such a big area that we each have our own experience and we all want to share some ideas, we have not necessarily had time to touch on the issue of content at all. For me, perhaps the biggest question is what has happened to the principle of our famous school of convergence and why we certainly need to change or correct these financing models. The Estonian education system decided in principle in favour of the School of Unity as early as 1917. Peeter Põld, whose very beautiful image stands before the Ministry of Education and Research in Tartu, formulated the principle of this school of convergence as the only possible way for the progressive education of a small nation. The School of Unity has two very important features: firstly, it ensures a smooth transition from one stage to another and, secondly, education according to everyone's needs and abilities. This is where my question comes from, to which we should be able to answer: will our current school of unity still meet these two fundamental characteristics? Firstly, we do not have a smooth transition. Many municipal and public schools are also performing from first grade and after primary school tests. Still picking the best. This smooth transition, once set as a goal, is not working. Maybe it's natural because the world has changed, but we have to admit it to ourselves. Secondly, in the current volume of financing, schools often fail to ensure that each child's abilities, needs and abilities are taken into account. This would require that municipal schools, for example, have been given enough money for all support specialists. However, this is not the case. So our current school, by this classic definition, is no longer a school of convergence. As has already been said, the world has changed, which is why it is entirely natural. Now we should ask ourselves whether, in general education, whether we want to continue with a school of convergence in upper secondary school, whether we can melt the school of convergence into this inclusive school, etc. The big problem that has been mentioned here many times today is that our School of Convergence has been institutionally focused for too long. Houses have been built, houses have been seen to be in order, but it has been forgotten who gives education the greatest value to school education, who bears this morale, and it is a schoolmaster. We've only talked about the schoolmaster in terms of salary. He has to get a decent salary, that's absolutely clear. But if we now ask whether our small people could not have a school as well as an education institution, whether we want to see it again as it was wanted in 1917 when its principles were clearly formulated, as was intended in 1934 when the school of convergence at that time was going through the worst crisis, then we must answer these questions. If we want our school to be a parenting institution too, then it is not only money that can be counted, whether it be the teacher's salary, so-called boxing or operating costs, but we assume that it also has educational meaning for society. Educational in the sense that this school really raises full citizens, not those who cannot cope with life, but those who can think for themselves, who can find a profession and manage their lives in the 21st century. We haven't answered those questions. When we say that our school could also be an educational establishment, we must admit that in the intervening years we have forgotten the authority of a teacher, a teacher with a high initial letter, a teacher as a schoolmaster, a teacher as a bearer of values. We have left too much to the teachers who really do their job very honestly every day. We have reduced our rights because it has been called for by a time that has changed, but we have forgotten the responsibility and we have forgotten to add more to the teacher for the most beautiful of all. From here on, we can move forward with our early childhood education, our basic education, our upper secondary school education and vocational education, recognising and recasting the value of the teacher, because all these are values and they must also be seen as values in the education system. Good luck for all of us to further develop this huge and complex stage! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U133	Krista Aru on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U134	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U135	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I was particularly touched upon by the topic that the mayor of Tartu brought to light here, this four years of stagnation, the confrontation between local governments and the Ministry of Education or the Government. The result of such a quiet martial law, the mistrust of each other, is that during this period the city of Tallinn, the city of Tartu, the city of Pärnu and Viljandi have had to spend more than 10 million euros and tighten the belt where this money could have been used more wisely. The OECD report clearly states that one of the main problems is the blurring of the responsibility of the state and local authorities, while at the same time there is such mistrust and quiet confrontation. I have not received an answer as to when and if it is possible to put an end to this confrontation, but it should be stopped. My question is short: who is still responsible for the stagnation of the past four years and for the fact that the Ministry of Education and the Council of Local Authorities have not actually been able to speak with each other? Are the Arrogant Education Ministers responsible for this profession over the last four years, or are the local government leaders working in the Cooperation Group? I would like an answer to that question. Four years of stagnation and uncertainty of responsibilities, who and what should be done. It's gotten too embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U136	Thank you. The debate on a key national issue is closed. Honourable Riigikogu! I think this House will understand me if I take the chairman's break of three minutes and 23 seconds. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 1.58 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U137	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U138	Honourable President! Respectable Riigikoguists! It seemed to me that there was no point in opening a new item in the last ten minutes, and it is still nice to talk about education. I am not as happy with today's debate as my colleague Märt Sults, with whom we have held the same profession in life, the headmaster's. Why am I not satisfied? In my opinion, the idea of education, which should come from the Ministry of Education and Research, is currently completely stuck. It has clinged to only one point in the funding of private schools. The Minister, instead of doing his day-to-day work, directing the ministry, is doing paranoid research on the members of the Riigikogu, ministers, public figures, explores whose children go to school. He spends most of the day in the Facebook doing his opponents' stigmatizing and tagging posts, and he behaves at all as a journalist aptly described the minister's world view during last night's Forum show: there is a circle and in its middle the word 'I', in front, in the back, in the left, in the right, in the top and in the bottom are'stupid'. If that is the attitude, Estonian education cannot be managed. I am very sorry that today's Minister's presentation was interrupted at the very moment that he might have wanted to speak, as the slides put it, about valuing the teaching profession, about the possibility of raising the prestige of teaching. I was hoping that maybe he would also talk about plans for teacher training. Although the international report says that teachers are over and that it would be nice to retire quietly, we are well aware that there is a real shortage of good teachers. Physics and chemistry teachers are still highly sought after in Estonia and only very few young people have become teachers of science in recent years. There are great campaigns, such as Back to School, where you go to school for a moment. There's a Youth School campaign, but I don't know if those kids who go to school this year or two are being dealt with separately so they can stay in school. I know a lot of great and capable teachers who have come to school through this campaign, but who have unfortunately not continued their career in school. The teacher's salary was also here today. Throughout last year, I heard from one coalition politician or another this slogan that we raise teacher's salary to 120% of the national average. Yeah, I heard a new statement today. I don't want to scratch evil, but it seemed to me that it would soon replace our minister's previous slogan. This was again the statement from the same report that teachers' wages in Estonia have increased faster than in other countries. If this slogan is still repeated 10 and 100 more times, we will soon believe that everything is actually good, that the pay of our teachers has risen faster than elsewhere. But what level we're talking about with this salary will soon be forgotten. The truth, in my opinion, will be born very soon. In the next few months, we should have a country's budgetary strategy ahead of us for the next four years. It is there that we can read whether the increase in teachers' pay to a permissible level is within the strategy and whether it is actually being dealt with, rather than as such a pseudo-issue of accusing other educators. In the remaining time, I would like to congratulate private schools on their substance. I've worked my life and run a municipal school. But when Rocca al Mare School was ten years old, they published a book on their school internship. As headmaster, I took this book as a manual and took note of ideas that could be implemented at municipal school. This educational practice is worth taking over from all private schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U139	Priit Onion, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U140	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! As a long-term municipal school manager, I have this debate and these things are very difficult to follow. The negotiations with private schools and their comparison with other schools are familiar to me for 18 years, since Rocca al Mare's private school was established. The story with Rocca al Mare's private school was that after he had existed for three years, he was tried to sell to the city of Tallinn. Back then, the deputy mayor was Liisa-Ly Pakosta. Then there was a political shift again, Liisa-Ly Pakosta was unable to complete the sales transaction, but the next assistant mayor did not want to buy this school. So, at first, private schools were pretty hard. But in some ways they were also easier because they had tuition fees, they had state education support and local government support and all the other things. We municipal schools had to take care of ourselves. Basically, we had to go begging and lobbying to get money to repair the school, beg and lobby even in order to get any other signs to compete with Rocca al Mare School and other institutions that, through NGOs or foundations, raised extra money for their school. In principle, it was very pleasant to hear today when the Minister of Education suddenly spoke about the need to review the financing of early childhood education. So this one year of pounding hasn't gone off the hook. From the point of view of municipal school leaders, I say that children and owls with special needs must be supported in full without any compromise. We can't leave anyone on the battlefield, as the officers say, we always have to pick up our own. It's clear as day. If you repeat the classics, each chain is exactly as strong as the weakest link. And if we don't keep the weakest link strong, then our chain will be extremely weak, whether these other links are titanium or scandal, of whatever, it doesn't matter at all. So, in this respect, today's debate was quite positive. I say this as a municipal school leader, I do not express the party's position. It was a good thing for me. As a politician, I sometimes have to make different decisions. In this case equal treatment is Estonia's priority. And since we're so few, we can't leave any people behind, not teaching or treating anyone anywhere. I hope that we are all right-minded, honest and good people and that we take the right decisions so that our country can last forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U141	Good President! Colleagues and guests! All parents think about giving their offspring the best possible education. As a mother, I too look at my son's close - to - home schools with the eyes of what would be best for him so that he might later consider himself a full - grown citizen. Because one of the main goals of school education is to prepare a young person to succeed in an independent life. And that, in turn, means that all the issues that we are discussing here today, the education that a child starts his or her school course, must be relevant and the world will take one step in 2030 and beyond. This flexibility and up-to-date and, of course, foresight are crucial in the education system, but it needs to be balanced with an adequate period of admission. Education is the basis for the survival of our people and our country and therefore cannot be reformed on a daily basis or too often. You need to give time to set the atra and carefully choose the tools. Thanks to science, education must always be a little ahead of its time. Today's education will create tomorrow. On the basis of examples from neighbouring countries, we also know that what has become important for a child at school is things that have been integrated into the curriculum, such as teaching curiosity, creativity, innovative approach and cooperation, self-expression skills. More than ever, the need to integrate topics that develop everyday skills into the curriculum is seen. Our national curriculum is moving slowly, but from a factual approach to an analytical approach, which in turn leads to the issue of providing modern learning tools. It is quite clear that public education support is not enough for all schools, for example, to build a progamination class or to modernise chemical and physics laboratories. There are also a number of schools where sports conditions are very poor. Here is one way to create a sports equipment program, for example, through which small schools can apply for equipment. As a country and as a society, we are actually prepared to take into account the differences in the Schools of Unity; there is no need to create a parallel system for that. Involvement of children with special needs in "normal" learning is important; it can be facilitated by the involvement of assistant teachers in teaching activities to help those who need additional support in an hour. The Old Town Educational College is a very good example here. For example, pedagogical students can be used for this purpose. The arrival of support services in smaller district schools is also very important, but unfortunately, the current Network of Pathfinder Centres will not solve this problem, but it will not solve it. There are sensitive situations where help is needed immediately, where you cannot wait in order to order. An ordered psychologist may sometimes not reach school until it is too late. Our party is very pleased that, at last, this so-called 'round money', i.e. action support for recreational education, will also become a reality. According to the monitoring of young people, we have nearly 30,000 young people who, for socio-economic, logistical or other reasons, have been excluded from their activities. This grant will start to move through local authorities, who, knowing community preferences, can offer their children and young people the best opportunities for extracurricular activities. Obviously, this so-called hanging culture has had its reasons, but we can improve the situation so that we grow new Jalmar Vaharnas and Hardi Meybaums. Culture, sport, nature and science The Ministry of Education has worked very hard to raise teachers' salaries, but teachers also bend under the stress and pressure brought with them by the signs of modern society. In any case, it is certain that despite the fastest technological developments, the role of teachers will not change in the next 100 years, who will have to offer our children a safe and supportive learning environment. We'll be good companions for them! Across the world, an answer is sought to the question of how to ensure that the teacher has the inner fire and the will to contribute in the best way to ensure his or her authority when simple factual knowledge is no longer sufficient, because every child can find the right answer on the Internet. Our new time talks a great deal about lifelong learning, the terminology of which is more familiar to older people. However, it seems to me that lifelong learning should begin in early childhood education. Lifelong learning is a new, global lifestyle, a continuous learning that lasts a lifetime. Education should be such that a smooth transition from one level of education to another without a dead end system can be made, for example, from vocational education to a university of applied sciences, from there to applying for a Master's degree, up to a doctorate. Very good steps have already been taken in this direction in the Estonian education system. Freedom and independence are the basis for good relations and reliable cooperation. The uniqueness of Estonian education is preserved only by freedom and trust between the state, local government, school and parents. The closer the school is to the child in general, the closer to the community, the better decisions can be taken for the child. From our point of view, the Reform Party, it is important to ensure that there is no distinction in the education system between school holders, whether they are a state, a local government or a private company, so that they are all treated equally and have equal opportunities, regardless of their ownership. Compliance with the requirements of the national curriculum is undoubtedly a prerequisite for this. Yes, our country on a global scale is one of the best examples of how to provide good education, which is measurable and analysed by PISA tests. However, care must be taken as to whether these charts are consistent with the identity and purpose of our country, our evolving society. In particular, we can be satisfied with the tables when they form a comprehensive, strong whole of clear values and goals and when they reflect what is happening elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-07_U142	On behalf of the Heidy Purga Reform Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
