ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the 9th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I ask who has a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries. The Government of the Republic has a wish. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act. Hannes Hanso, Minister of Defence, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U3	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U4	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of our own group, we are going to ask the Minister for the Interior about the termination and transfer of the activities of the Police and Border Guard College in Muraste. On 8 September last year, we sent a letter to the Minister for the Interior, which had two questions. One concerned the sale of this object, we wondered why it was being done, and the other interested us to get an analysis of why the site was preferred to Muraste. The answer was that this object was not planned to be sold. We never got an answer to the second question. However, a few weeks later, an article was published in the Harku Municipality Journal, which said that the Police and Border Guard College would close the doors in Muraste and that it had been decided by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Due to these conflicting circumstances, we have four questions for the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U5	The members of the Riigikogu from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia have submitted an inquiry to the Riigikogu. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Centre Party have an inquiry to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Marina Kaljuranna, on the free trade agreement between the European Union and the US. The United States and the European Union are the world's largest trading partners, with a mutual investment volume of more than one trillion euros. Despite this, economic cooperation between the European Union and the United States of America has not yet fully realised, although the Partnership Agreement was already signed in 2013 and preceded by a sufficiently long negotiation period. The main objective of the TTIP agreement, which is a new word for me in foreign language, which means that I am able to learn and not yet hopeless, is to help the economy grow both in the European Union and in the US. Big boys have big games. We little boys would also like to know from the Minister of Foreign Affairs the state of the negotiations between the European Union and the United States, what changes these could bring to Estonia, what new goods and services can be exported from Estonia, and what benefits small Estonian entrepreneurs, consumers and all Estonian residents can benefit from this agreement at all. Questions have been asked by 12 curious, evolutionary and good members of the Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U7	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U8	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, I have the honour to address an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. The inquiry concerns the correlation between Elering's profits and network charges. According to Elering's audited report for 2015, the company generated revenue of 132.4 million euros, operating profit of 41.6 million euros and net profit of 25.1 million euros. The company plans to pay 31 million euros in dividends to the State this year, i.e. 11 million euros more than a year earlier. According to Elering's Chairman of the Management Board, the reliability of the electricity transmission network managed by Elering was at its best last year. Only 10 megawatt-hours of energy was not delivered to consumers during the year, which is about one household's annual energy consumption. The number of switch-offs on the power grid last year was also the lowest in history. However, it is very difficult to understand for a normal electricity consumer whose electricity bill represents 45% of the network fee. While a large network charge has previously been explained by EstLink connections and other investments, in a situation where the company pays 31 million euros to the state budget, it seems to be a disguised tax. We have three questions for the Minister, which also concern, for example, the acquisition of gas transmission networks, where money was found for this. We are also asking whether the Minister considers it normal for the company to pay EUR 31 million in dividends. After all, this money could have been left in the hands of the people, and people could have decided for themselves how to handle this money, which also concerns the competitiveness of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U9	I have adopted one bill and three inquiries. The draft law will be dealt with if it complies with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, and enquiries will be received by the addressees if they comply with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check! The assembly has 79 members of the Riigikogu and no 22. Adoption of the agenda. The Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed to remove the first item on the agenda for this week, the third reading of draft 146. Honourable Riigikogu, with this clarification, I will vote on the agenda for the 9th working week of the III plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 73 members of the Riigikogu to approve the agenda, one against and one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U10	The first item on the agenda is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps, Viktor Vassilyev, Märt Sults, Aadu Musta, Dmitri Dmitriev, Toomas Vitsut, Peeter Ernitsa, Mikhail Korbi, Anneli Oti, Jaanus Karilaadi, Erki Savisaare, Martin Repinski, Tarmo Tamme, Rein Ratas, Enn Esemaa, Andrei Novikov, Oudekki Loone, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Kersti Sarapuu. On behalf of the heirs, please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U11	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Good Minister Jürgen Ligi! A few weeks ago, when I handed over the questioning, I introduced the subject. Since then, information has started to move in the Ministry of Education and Research and is pleased to note that the purpose of the inquiry to draw attention to a certain deficit has borne fruit. The promotion of vocational training or, to say it in Estonian, the provision of information among young people has played a very important role in vocational competitions. If we look at the popularity of vocational education among young people, we must sadly admit that neither vocational education, despite quite a lot of investment, is the first choice for very many young people. Some 40,000 young people don't study or work. When you look at feedback from employers, one of the biggest concerns employers have highlighted is that young people from general education who have not taken up the profession and have not continued their studies. That makes it pretty hard for them to find a job. Career counseling and cooperation with companies are essential for young people to get internships with businesses, but professional championships are certainly very important. The competition 'Young Master' I believe that you have all heard about it, is organized through the Foundation Innove since 2006. This event has sub-competitors, as well as one of the top events where hundreds of students compete with each other in the most positive sense and where there are indeed thousands and thousands of spectators. There has also been a very positive reflection of these top events in the press, and potential vocational students have gained a positive experience of this. So this event is very important. Unfortunately, however, it has not been announced in 2016. That is why our group members have a number of questions for the Minister. We want explanations, and I believe we will have them today. We are interested in the misfortune that made the Young Master unproclaimed in 2016 and that is not going to happen this year. We are quite sad about this, but hopefully it is only a mistake, and in reality no one intended to lose this very important event. We are on hold because, as I understand from the press release from the Ministry of Education and Research, in the coming years, this competition will be even more powerful and bigger. We're waiting for good answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U12	Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! It seems to me that this question has been exaggerated, because of such a small individual question, the Riigikogu's time is still too much, but okay. The first question: 'The goal of the Young Master competition was to promote vocational education. This was especially important for middle school students in counties that were brought to the race as spectators by buses. How do you justify the decision to cancel the competition? " As for the introduction, it is not true that vocational education is in the role of an orphan; rather, it has been favored in the role of a child and spoiled. Restructuring has been postponed too far there and investments have sometimes been made too much and optimistically. This is certainly unsustainable and, in this sense, vocational education requires reform. There are certainly problems with the popularity of vocational education. The Young Master, of course, was made in his time to popularize it. But you said the kids were brought to that race with buses, and it was especially important for the county kids. Rather, one of the reasons for the restructuring was that it was not possible to increase the popularity of rural youth. Of course, we do not have an exact list of these children, but only 7% of the children were brought there by buses. Although this event expanded, it was not felt that it had become more popular among the target population. The experts therefore decided to skip this year and try to reorganize the event by involving more employers and perhaps making it regionally rotating to some extent, thus trying to reach the target group better. But 2016 is also not a gap, but a similar event is taking place, which brings similar results, for example, winners can compete to represent Estonia in international competitions in EuroSkills and WorldSkills and receive prizes. More than 30 and half of these events are organised outside Tallinn. One of the reasons for this change was that the competition had become Tallinn-centred. At the same time, participation in vocational schools became a great burden, as the whole inventory had to be carried. Although the state financed all of this, there was a lot of murmuring that it should not continue in this form. That was the main reason why this was decided. Such matters do not normally require a ministerial decision; such decisions are taken at a different level. It is certainly too much for the Riigikogu to discuss these details. The second question: Was the rejection of the Young Master competition this year and its dispersal into educational institutions as smaller competitions a conscious activity of the Ministry of Education and Research? " Yes, it was. I can assure you that the Ministry of Education and Research is the most conscious state institution ever. This is what our work is about, our work is about, our knowledge. Question 3: "Does today's situation indicate that vocational education and training no longer needs to be promoted and that such a major vocational education event will no longer need to be organised in the future? ' No. Like I said, no. Question 4: Will the cost of organising small distributed competitions also be reimbursed by the Ministry to educational institutions or will the educational institutions have to carry out the competitions with the support of their operating costs? ' Yeah, let's make it up to you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U14	Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In fact, all kinds of competitions are quite attractive things and make people go along. There can be nothing better than promotion of vocational education in competitions and people taking part in competitions. There were no thoughts in the ministry to bring into one dimension, for example, the efforts of our neighbours Latvians and Lithuanians to measure up to professionalism? When they compete with each other, it's not like there's a real athletic moment. Maybe we could have professional championship competitions with our neighbors.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U16	Thank you. Good question. In itself, professional championship competitions are also international, but whether this has been discussed with the neighbours, I am not familiar with that. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U17	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U18	Thanks! Mr. Minister! As one of those irrational heirs who, in your opinion, make a speck of dust in Suur Munamägi, I ask whether such a destructive assessment of the members of the Riigikogu is subject to your good practice. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U19	Thank you. No, it's part of your good practice. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U20	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, I must say that your irony is still insurmountable. But I've been to a lot of companies in the wood industry, the bread industry, the bakery, where the workforce is trained locally. You have just said that we have beautifully established vocational education centres and financed their work. Is it possible that we will compensate companies for the cost of training the workforce? I see that VET centres are less flexible and unable to act quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U22	Thank you. As far as irony is concerned, you may not have noticed very well, but the subject is actually serious. If there is no more shine in the activities of the organisers, the number of visitors is not expected and employers do not contribute to the extent expected, then you should consider whether something should be changed. Now it was considered together and it was considered that something should be changed. In 2017, it will start again and hopefully in another format. I do not think this is a parliamentary debate. It could have been the information passed on in the hallway, but let it be, we're all here with the media's attention with great joy, I suppose. As regards the ad hoc question of whether the state should pay the tax, I did not understand what, whether vocational training is still in a special form, it should rather ask why the state has to pay for the preparation of the labour force specifically for one company or another. Your question went to this area, I think, that clearly the interests of companies and their knowledge of their particular need should prevail. This vocational education model, that the state prepares someone and then companies hire them, is not already there. There must undoubtedly be the opposite trend: practice and preparation must depend more on the interest and activity of employers themselves. Not that they are not presently participating, for example, in councils of vocational schools, and we in various committees are always discussing all the issues of vocational education with their participation. But if there is criticism here that the state is not preparing the workforce, then the answer is that the country will be smarter than the company in the future, I hope, no minister will give it. We do not know what their business plans are or what their equipment fleet is in any particular case. I'm sure we're not smarter on our own. We're smarter together.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U23	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U24	I'm sorry! On paying off: where is this interest really, the specific interest of a particular company? If they want to get a job in a situation where they complain that there is a shortage of labour, then it could still mean a contribution, not so much paying off as paying off the job. Taking a job, taking a traineeship is something that progressive companies are already paying for and could pay even more in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U25	Now March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The current government is, like, a brake on small business and economic innovation, which we all know is not much news. But if you take away the chance that young people can apply their positive ambition in the competitions within Estonia and also go to EuroSkills for vocational training and show their skills to the world and to Europe, or to the future employer, this is a very brutal trick. Going back to the beginning of your speech, I say that if a Member asks even one question about your speech, if he does not understand a word, he has the right to ask you, and you also have the duty to answer it. The start of your speech was very humiliating for us. But please try to answer my question now!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U27	So the question was what? There was a declaration that there's something in your world that I don't know. Secondly, you argued that it would be very ugly to take away the opportunity to participate in international professional competitions. Both were declarations, neither is true in this world. I have just mentioned in my reply that the participants in these 30 professional competitions can participate in international competitions, at exactly the same level, in the same way as the organisation of these competitions is paid off. Nothing changes in that sense. So don't focus on things that don't apply in this world.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U28	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's good to hear that you've learned today that an event like the Young Master will be held every year. I am very sorry to have to skip 2016 because there was just an accident at work and someone forgot about the event. But I am very pleased to see that the Ministry is aware of this event and plans to organise it next year. However, if we think about this new start and look at the sums that Innove has spent to organise this event, can't the reason for the cancellation of the event be that in a few years after the cuts, vocational schools no longer had the means to do so and the local authorities weren't interested in organising such transport circles? Young people, unlike in previous years, did not make it to these competitions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U30	Thank you! First of all, the fact that this race took place didn't reveal you. It was known by the people who organized this event long ago, and I knew there was such a competition. Does anyone have enough resources? As I was saying, the race is paid off. The problem was still interest, how much interest there is in this matter in remote areas, and how much pressure this event imposes on the vocational training institutions that have to organise it. The Ministry doesn't have an appliance park or a supply of people that can be piled up once a year for an event. They were still tools for vocational schools, but the state paid for it completely, but it did not all compensate for the hours worked and it did not correspond to the assessment. When it was found that something had to be changed, it was not a ministerial or ministerial decision, it was a joint decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U31	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! You have just mentioned that the material base of vocational training institutions is good enough, but unfortunately, the popularity of vocational training in society is still not what it might be. Does the Ministry have any bigger plan to do or how the popularity of vocational training can be increased in society? Or is it up to schools to promote disciplines?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U33	Thank you. I think I said last week that there was no miracle medicine here. But there are ambitions and some new plans. We can't change society's attitude, we can't impose force. In my opinion, the attractiveness begins with closer cooperation with companies. I do not want to exploit the individual experience too much, but ABB, for example, who we have chosen as the best internship place, is a good example of how vocational education should be related to real life and how young people's interest in vocational education can be increased. Not every company is so successful in this, but there could be more and more of this kind of attitude. We are putting a little pressure on this situation with places of school or investments, we are actually bringing together upper secondary school places when we invest, so that it is not the case that upper secondary schools have to accept all students in order to get their seats filled. Ideal is still to get 30 to 40% of young people (currently 25%) into vocational education. There's a lot of problems. We organise cooperation between vocational and general education schools in teaching electives and general subjects. Vocational schools have electives that can better acquire skills, may contain more specific subjects, and on the other hand, support for vocational schools in general education is provided. In some places vocational schools are being developed together with state secondary schools; in Hiiumaa they are under joint management; in Järvamaa, for example, there is a common infrastructure. This will allow for some synergies and a more positive light on vocational education. But, yeah, a simple recipe to break down bad traditions in society, of course there isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U34	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U35	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In his speech, my colleague, Mailis Reps, said that 40,000 young people are not studying or working. My question has to do with this. As a minister, what do you mean, is it 40,000 many or few for Estonia? What is the government even trying to do to get these young people to get an education and move on in their way of life?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U36	Thank you. The first thing is that we reject this number or I ask you to specify where this 40,000 comes from, how old people are counted there and who are included in it. For example, young people at home should not be considered there. First of all, you shouldn't look at the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education can deal with children who are inside the education system, but the resources to chase children somewhere in the city are rather other institutions that have their own methods. I understand you've moved an inquiry back and forth here, once you pass in, then you take it back, and now I think you've given in again. Well, we'll talk about it for a while. But the Ministry of Education cannot, of course, replace municipalities in their search for these young people and cannot improve the population register if it is flawed, i.e. incomplete. We cannot change people's behaviour either, in the sense that if they do not report going abroad, it is not a question of the education system again. The issue of state governance is, of course, a problem in general. It is simply a common concern of a number of institutions, and its resolution begins with accurate accounts, which are not the work of the Ministry of Education, and the work of municipalities with those young people who are really inactive. This information reaches the municipalities better, although we have also started monitoring it. We have an idea, but I do not have a specific bill now, how many young people actually do not fulfil their school obligations and how many of them do not do so because they have postponed it for some well-informed reason or have been exempted from it, etc. It's a little more complicated statistics. But there is a small part of them in the education system, because young people mean, if I'm not mistaken, people until 26 or even 28 years of age. Not all of them remain in the grip of the education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U37	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you to the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U38	Honourable President-in-Office! Ladies and gentlemen, Having been in the last century after graduating from 1984 to 1987. I do not understand how it has been possible to bring the popularity of vocational schools as zero as it is now. It is the impression that this is happening to all those who are in contact with the country. Vocational schools and vocational secondary schools were financed by the state, currently run out of state secondary schools. There are no more professional championship competitions. For three years, I worked in a seamstress school, where machine seamsmen and shoe-top seamsmen came out. One was a boys' class and there were a lot of girls' classes. To them, we organized fashion shows, design contests, acidings in every quarter of the quarter, everything that was built on emotion. The people of the entire Mustamäe Quarter near this schoolhouse came to see them and enjoy them because it was emotionally great. (Goodbye, Minister!) Nobody else made clothes like that and the shoes our students did, no one did anywhere. The funniest story is that awful orders came in and the school was always a competition. It's funny as it may be, but deep in Russian times, it was a tough competition for vocational schools. There was also a bell at a school on Kopli Street where masonry was taught. They did all kinds of tricks, special types of stoves, and showed how quickly it was possible to lay a clean joint. The employers' large companies went to the final year to sniff out students. They didn't have time to finish school when they were already in construction, Clement or Communist. They worked as masters, they weren't on the lowest paycheck. If they didn't get a job, they made their own student company, a small business. At that time, public limited companies began to come quietly and made their own public limited companies, which were of very high quality. At present, student companies are promoted in general education, but they do not officially exist in vocational education, they must register as private limited companies or something else. I mean, they're taxed as business companies, but municipal schools or state secondary schools can have student companies that have no tax liability. There is already such a fork planned here, this problem cannot be solved simply. Vocational education can only be promoted if vocational education and training is always in positive competition, shows all the time what it does and how fabulously it does. Forgive me, but there are more men in Estonia every day who cannot hold the drill and more women who cannot sew. I'm sorry, ladies! You're gonna give a man a knife to a carving knife. But he doesn't know what to do with it. You give the kid a thread and a needle at school to sew a button in front of him. 'I'm sorry,' he says,'my mother is not here. " Come to your senses! Vocational education was and is one of the very strong foundations of our small people, of course, science is above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U39	There's no more calls. The minister doesn't want to say anything either. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U40	The next question is presented by Ain Lutsepp, Artur Talvik, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp and Andres Herkel. On behalf of the heirs, Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U41	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Mr. Secretary of Defense! The questioning of the members of the Free Party Group concerns broad-based national defence. A summary of the non-military parts of the National Defence Development Plan 2013 to 2022 states that, when dealing with civil sector support for military defence activities, the focus will be on enhancing cooperation and continuity between the civil sector and the Defence Forces and the Defence Union, as well as regular exercises of civilian support and contracts for the use of civilian resources during crisis and war periods. The keywords for broad-based national defence in the development plan are, in our opinion, correct, but the question is how well the government has managed to develop broad-based national defence and strengthen the network. Estonia, with a small territory and population and on the NATO border, must use the free will of its citizens to contribute to security, and set up effective systems to ensure the skills, knowledge and preparedness of the population. In addition, cooperation between the Defence League and the Defence Forces with other institutions and parties is important in terms of non-military threats just natural disasters, other major accidents, mass disruptions to the eviction. In this regard, we have six questions to the Minister for Defence that have come to his attention. We're asking them for an answer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U42	Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso will answer the question. 15 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U43	Good Chairman! Members of the Riigikogu, thank you for these questions. I am pleased that you basically support the objectives that we have set. It also turned out from the introduction that in a small country, silos have to be broken and worked together, which is self-evident. Since there are only 15 minutes, but there are six questions, I am, of course, happy to respond to further questions later, but I will start by asking the first question in the order of the questions, and I will not read the questions if you will, because it would take extra time. First, the Young Eagles and the Homedaughters and their lack of uniforms and equipment. Indeed, the main concern for the supply of youth organisations in the Defence League has been the absence of camps over the years. Due to the lack of suitable clothing equipment, it has been difficult to organise external learning activities during the winter. There are also reasons why this has been so. Indeed, the principles of international law and conventions mean that young people who do not receive military training are limited by law to use the form of a military soldier. This is why last year the Defence League developed the first set of forms for youth organisations, and this year forms will continue to be obtained. This year, 35% of the home girls' budget is planned to increase, 18% of the Youth Eagle budget is planned to increase, and both organisations' budgets have a substantial increase in the funds planned for obtaining uniforms. So the problem you described, which has been and still exists, is about to be resolved. Another issue is the cooperation between the Defence League and the Defence Forces with the voluntary structures of the PB and Rescue Board. The Defence Forces and the Defence League are working closely with, I would say, the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in particular the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board, every day. As I mentioned above, the principle of broad-based national defence provides that all public authorities will continue to fulfil their basic functions during the war, as far as possible, given that the size of the state and the number of institutions we have are as they are. The functioning of institutions in both normal and crisis situations and ensuring continuity of work during all protection situations are primarily the responsibility of those institutions themselves. In the event of local crises, the activities will be coordinated through regional crisis committees, where military structures, and in particular the voluntary organisation Defence League, will also be represented. The contribution of the Defence League to the PPA and the Rescue Board's joint activities, I'd say, is growing every year. Co-operation has included exercises at different levels and sectors, information days, forest fires, marine rescue, border surveillance, search for missing persons and security of objects. Improving and improving the effectiveness of cooperation between the Defence League, the PB and local authorities was on the agenda only recently, last November, at a conference on broad-based national defence organised by the Defence League. The third question is about people, those who contribute to security, who play several roles at once. Yeah, there are people like that. Volunteers in the area of law enforcement, internal security and rescue were 13 to 15% of all people, according to surveys carried out a few years ago. It is true that people who are active are active in many areas. We now know 600 men and women who contribute their time and energy both voluntarily to internal security and to the Defence League. There is, in fact, no conflict of resources. A voluntary military post in the Defence Forces means that a member of the so-called Rapid Response Structure is obliged to appear for service in the event of study gathering, additional training and mobilisation. As the preparation of the reserve staff is time-intensive and resource-intensive, it is obvious that the obligation to the Defence Forces to pre-empt voluntary work as a savior or assistant police officer will remain in the future. Defence allies who are not appointed for the post of wartime can then be used to ensure internal security. Assistant police officers and volunteer rescuers act out of their free will, the Rescue Board or the police cannot mobilise them, while persons belonging to the national defence structure have an obligation to participate in certain situations. So there is no resource conflict, as I have already said. People who participate in national defence as well as in the field of internal security have been made clear today and work is being done to create a single account. The process also describes different options where voluntary organisations can be involved. On this basis, it can be suggested whether and to what extent they could also carry out defence tasks. The fourth question is whether, in what format and with what objectives exercises have been carried out or planned involving all structures of volunteer security guards. I'm going to answer a little more than the previous questions. As has already been said, the Defence Union's cooperation with other security structures is close and day-to-day. During joint exercises, cooperation with the police is practiced and the skills of the defence allies are enhanced, for example, in rescue work and the removal of landscape fires. In the previous year, the Defence League contributed almost 650 defence allies to the activities of the PB and Rescue Board. Some examples include: forest fires in Läänemaa in July 2014, internal defence training in all the chess in May 2014 (more than 400 participants), searching for missing persons in cooperation with the PBA, Tallinn and Ülenurme airport, as well as securing the southern border and manning the border crossing points when we visited President Obama (about 200 defence allies). Last year, over 2 000 defence allies contributed to supporting internal security and rescue services and, together with local authorities, to organising crisis management. Last year, just before the "Silk" major exercise, a national crisis management exercise organised and coordinated by the Ministry of the Interior took place 'Conex 2015'. In the course, a series of five part-study exercises took place; the Defence League participated in four part-study sessions. The aim was to review the strategic management and decision-making of the various crises and to test the implementation of the legislation in accordance with the risk scenarios described in the State Protection Development Plan 2013 to 2022, as well as to identify the need to amend them. On the basis of the results of all part-study exercises, a list of proposals was drawn up on how to improve emergency response. National security and police assistance were practiced together in the 2014 and 2015 "Kärik' exercise, where police rapid response units, police patrols and the Defence League chess were practicing the involvement of the Defence League in the surveillance of different objects and state borders. In addition to these exercises, cooperation exercises take place at the level of chess and prefectures, i.e. at the level of regions. For example, Alutaguse Chessiv practiced cooperation with the Eastern Prefecture last spring; Pärnumaa Chessiv participated in rescue and evacuation exercises twice last year. A very prominent, high-level and long NATO CMX crisis management exercise '16' has just taken place, where all the Member States and all the institutions involved in the Republic of Estonia participated and the readiness of the Defence Forces and the Defence League took place, let's say so. NATO's exercise was attended simultaneously by NATO headquarters, military command, the capitals and permanent representations of all Member States to NATO, as well as Finland and Sweden, as well as the European Union as an observer. We practiced, I'd say, through different scenarios. I can't go to the figures, unfortunately, because this is a subject under the temple, but in a certain hybrid scenario, it was elementary that the Ministry of the Interior asked for assistance from the Defence League to resolve some of the issues. We were able to send out four-digit defence alliances to support the structures of the Ministry of the Interior, and we could have done so in a real crisis situation. So there's no question. Rapid response structures are one thing, the rest of the people another thing. We can get them involved. The readiness check of the Defence Forces peacetime units after NATO exercise has already shown that the Defence Forces and the Defence League are ready to react with very short notice. Hundreds of defence allies came out with only a few hours' notice, and they volunteered for their free time on Friday night, at the beginning of the school break, even without knowing what assignment or for how long they were called out. The units achieved combat readiness within hours, not days. It is clear that the voluntary component of national defence is a very important resource. The fifth issue is on cooperation with civil society organisations and the private sector in the field of defence. The Ministry of Defence's cooperation with civil society organisations and the private sector is extensive and continuous, and I would say that it is also growing. The Ministry provides financial support for activities aimed at developing defence capabilities and strengthening the defence will. For example, the Ministry of Defence supports NGO Ida-Viru Youth Academy with EUR 40000. The Ministry of Defence also finances the work of the Estonian NATO Association and the Estonian Assembly of Reserve Officers. Where possible and depending on the subject, different stakeholders will be involved in drafting the drafts. Some examples, too. When drafting the draft National Defence Act, contacts were made with the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, the Estonian Association of Hospitals, the Estonian Association of Ambulances and, of course, many other organisations. In preparing the Defence Forces Service Act, the opinion was requested from both the Estonian Board of Retired Officers and the Estonian Assembly of Reserve Officers. In the case of drafts concerning local governments, the opinion of the local government representative councils is also requested. The cooperation of the Defence Union with the PBGB was also part of the question, so I will reply that it is already covered by the cooperation agreement concluded in 2010, which was supplemented by an annex on 12 August last year in detail on how the PPA will be supported by the PPA in ensuring the internal security of the country. The Defence League is ready to make available to the PBA an agreed number of defence allies who have not been appointed to the military post. One last question. I hope there's some time left. This concerns learning, civil protection, elements of national defence teaching, etc. At present, all national defence-interested gymnasists can learn national defence education, the content of which could be divided into three conditional terms: state, citizen and national defence and their interlinkages, military defence and people's skills to participate in national defence. This last block can in principle be called civil protection or protection of the population. No matter what you call it, the substance remains the same in that sense. The national curriculum of the upper secondary school has been a national defence education since 2011. It is important that this elective is currently compulsory for schools, while it is optional for students. This means that if students want to study national defence, the school must enable them to do so. There are schools where national defence issues have been dealt with compulsoryly in the entire upper secondary school level, such as Elva Gymnasium and Jakob Westholm Gymnasium, as far as I know, Tallinn Reaalkool, maybe a few more. In state secondary schools, those that have been created must be taught the subject, as well as the state secondary schools that are still being created. The numbers are pretty impressive here. There are currently 138 upper secondary schools where it is taught and a certain number of vocational training institutions, namely 19. Make it mandatory or not? There's a lot of ways to think about it. We would like this subject to be attractive to students. If we make it compulsory, the Defence League and the officers will no longer be able to teach it because they do not have a pedagogical vocational qualification. So there are also issues that speak against making compulsory, but in 2018 we are ready to reach all Estonian upper secondary schools with this theme. This subject is being dealt with, this is a very important component of our broad-based defence, I would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U44	Questions for the Minister. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U45	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! About a year ago, when there was an election campaign in the Riigikogu, civil defence was actively discussed. Last week there was also a debate on population protection in the Riigikogu. Local authorities are always mentioned here as the weakest parts. Often, it is just a question of getting a bird that such a plan needs to be developed, but its actual content - the organisation of exercises and the dissemination of information to the population - remains incomplete. What are your thoughts on the administrative reform law, which activities do you have in mind here? Do you have any suggestions as to what functions, in terms of administrative reform, should be dealt with both at the higher level of the municipality and at the level of the municipality, so that, even in the event of a natural disaster, the community can cope with the problems itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U46	Thank you. I think it is very good that we are working on this whole administrative reform package. I myself, as mayor of Saaremaa, proposed the largest on-site merger in the history of Estonia at all. National defence is certainly one of the aspects that we need to think about in the process of administrative reform. As Minister of Defence, I still have to say, just in case, that our ministry's main task is to ensure the country's military defence capability. We have taken it to a higher level, as I say, to deal with a broad-based defence issue. This is dealt with by the Security and Defence Coordination Office of the State Chancellery, which coordinates this whole larger picture within the state. We are undoubtedly open to cooperation on these issues. It is obvious that when the administrative reform is carried out, it will also have effects. In different regions they may be different, even in the sense of territory, which problems need to be solved in one part of Estonia or another. We are open to this cooperation and always make our contribution, but this is certainly not a process that will be run by the Ministry of Defence alone. The administration of the Ministry of Home Affairs, internal security agencies, military defence organisations and so many other authorities must cooperate here. But the general tendency is that silo towering in a bad way is starting to disappear from the country, I really feel that way, and it will definitely disappear in this area as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U47	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U48	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! The two basic principles of broad-soil defence are government as a whole and society as a whole. Today, you are indeed answering our questions from the Minister of Defence's point of view. But as a member of the government, do you sense that the government as a whole is changing? Very many crisis situations require cooperation between ministries, and many problems are under several ministries. Has this cooperation with the State Chancellery started? The second part, of course, is society as a whole. Do you think society is sufficiently informed about crisis situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U49	National defence, like any other field, will never be completed, will never be completed, will not be completed in a broad-based defence. I'm sure there's room for improvement here. I particularly agree with the last part of this question, which was about informing citizens of all things, etc. There's a lot of components that work together. We're really doing the best we can. The Ministry literally spends millions of euros in defence budgets on a national defence teaching project, for example, which means purely raising awareness. Yes, broad-based national defence, as has already been mentioned, includes municipalities, the Defence Forces, the Defence League, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior and the State Chancellery, all of whom are involved in this field in one way or the other. In the short time I have been in office, I am indebted to the exact number of exercises where exactly these situations are being played. We have had international exercises, as well as domestic exercises, and there will be more. If somewhere, the necks of the bottle are drawn and always draw, then we know what to do. This process will never be completed. But is there cooperation, do we want to share resources, etc.? On that, I can say, yes, we will. We do this at institutional level, I would say, every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U50	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns a part of the broad-based concept of defence, the concept of population protection. A task force has been set up at the State Chancellery, which started work last December. This task force must identify how well public authorities, municipalities, smaller communities and other organisations are prepared to help people in crisis situations with national impact. Why is it only now that the principle of coalition has always been that national defence is a priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U52	Thank you for your question. It's hard for me to answer why things used to be like this in history. I know that while I'm a minister, we'll contribute a hundred percent to this cooperation. It is good that we have come to these issues now. In fact, the broad-based concept of national defence and this whole concept is a relatively new thing. For the first time, it was introduced into our political vocabulary in 2010 during the planning of the national defence strategy and the relevant laws were adopted in 2013 and 2014. If we look at the wider functioning of the country, however, I will say that once we have formulated the subject for ourselves, we will now deal with it. Could it have been dealt with sooner? Maybe you could have, but I assure you, for my part, that we are active in these matters. If, especially in the course of exercises, there are all kinds of bottlenecks, then they are always learned. If some task force was set up now, it's very good. We always draw those places where cooperation can be improved. The country is simply too small for different areas to operate independently of each other. I also know this from my own experience and having attended some of the events in this area, including those on medical matters and those on which, for example, there have been some small bridges in some local authorities, I can say, in a word, that this is a very broad subject, it literally involves the whole of society. This project is never gonna be finished, but we're gonna have to work all the time to make it better. We'll do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U53	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U54	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Your answer today about national defence education in upper secondary schools was almost one week ago similar to what you heard from the Prime Minister. Because of these two answers, I'm a little confused. If you have now found that it was not a good idea to write a point in the coalition agreement, that in 2018 national defence education is compulsory in schools, then there is nothing shameful about even this brilliant coalition saying that they have made a mistake and are withdrawing that promise. Both you and the Prime Minister have convincingly proved why voluntary defence education is better. If you still stick to this mandatory teaching, I don't understand what's going to happen in this two-year period and can change, so we'll be ready in two years. I know from personal experience how hard it is to find good defense teachers. Where do you get them in two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U55	Thank you for your question. My position and that of the ministry that I chaired is, at the moment, rather that it certainly does not make sense to rush into making it compulsory. Just recently, as I say, we have contributed to the completion of a broad-based concept of national defence, under the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Research and with our involvement, as well as with the Ministry of the Interior. It doesn't say that, as far as I know. This is finally the political agreement of the coalition, but I think today that we should not rush to make it compulsory. As I said before, there are all sorts of arguments. We want this teaching to be attractive to the students so they want to go to class. Indeed, as has been mentioned, there is a problem with teachers. If we make this teaching compulsory, then I will apply, of course, I am not an expert in the field of education, other rules, this subject can no longer be taught by officers (I have also attended several schools myself), the defence allies and others who actually make it interesting for students in this field, I think. You have to be careful and finally ask what it's all about. I think we need to take this thing calmly and think it through. The important thing is that awareness improves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U56	Jaak Madison's question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U57	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, Previous questioners mentioned several times the protection of the civilian population in the event of an emergency or crisis or a military security threat. I'm going to get a little more specific with my question. You were the mayor of Kuressaare. Can you tell us when the crisis plan was last adopted in Kuressaare, or even in Saaremaa, and how quickly will the people of Saaremaa be informed if there is a security threat? Where can people evacuate, where are the meeting places where they can get first aid, eat and drink? How is the evacuation of the entire "normal population" from the danger zone to a safe place? Can you introduce this plan a little bit, is it set, when was the last time it was determined and how fast is the notification?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U58	I certainly don't remember all the details in my head, but there's a crisis committee at the county government, and I took part in a number of events. It included the PBA, the Rescue Board, the local government leaders, the county governor and the mayor. So all the structures were there. I think that Kuressaare is certainly no different from other Estonian cities here, because it is a nationwide structure. That is my answer for the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U59	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U60	Thank you, Minister. Dear Speaker! A study was published a few weeks ago, which showed the willingness of citizens to defend themselves, which is essential for this broad-based national defence, and I stress that it is precisely the readiness of citizens. The results showed that there was a clear difference between the attitude of Estonians and Russians: Estonians have a very high level of readiness, but about half of Russians are not prepared to participate in national defence in a war situation. Can you tell us what is being done to ensure that such a very large number of people, we are talking about tens of thousands of people, would not put a hole in our broad-based national defence and would not undermine it, especially given that they live concentrated in certain areas? What is this so-called antidote?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U61	Thank you! To be honest, I've been getting home to Saaremaa less often than Narva or Jõhvi lately. Everyone must make a contribution in order for Estonia to be a whole country in mental terms and also in terms of national defence. Last Saturday I went to Narva where the renovated building of Narva Chevron was opened. I saw the defence allies there, whose name tags indicated that they could be of any nationality. They are united by one thing: they want to protect and stand up for the values that our country stands for. I have been in several units and have been on missions, working with many officers, and I can say that they are of Estonian nationality as well as of some other nationality, I do not even know their nationality exactly. So there's no way to draw a line like that on the level of the Defence Forces. Our policy must be to ensure that all groups of the population are equally involved in national defence, politics and all other areas, whether it be an economy or something else, so that there are no glass ceilings or anger and resentment between communities. I think it should keep our country healthy and in one piece. I have not heard of any fundamental problems in dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U62	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The International Centre for Defence Research prepared a report in 2014 entitled 'Sea Security and Defence. Challenges for public sector and society involvement'. For these challenges, this report made 14 recommendations, one of which concerned funding. Of course, there is a broad social agreement to allocate 2% of GDP to defence expenditure; no one is calling it into question. But in order for organisations other than the Ministry of Defence to develop their abilities and actions, they also need funding. To this end, a recommendation has been made to establish a so-called "separate Trust Fund" at the State Chancellery. What do you think about this trust fund, have you listened to this recommendation and maybe already taken action?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U64	Thank you. I have here a paper on all areas that, although not directly relevant to the Ministry of Defence, are still written here about the things that we support in society. Unfortunately, you can't read them all in response to an inquiry. I'm just naming the things we do in the ministry besides what I've already said. For example, support for the PPA in various areas on the basis of a contract, national defence education (million euros per year), higher national defence courses since 1999 every year or in recent years at least (117000 euros), an online awareness programme on cyber hygiene, participation in people's searches, strategic communication infrastructure (with the Ministry of the Interior), hosting a war museum, acquisition of works of art in new buildings, cyber Olympics, research and development grants (EUR 770000), in addition to subsidies for audiovisual projects and television programmes (we are talking about around EUR 100000 here, as well as major projects such as film '1944' 600000 euros). We have a sports group, you know that the Ministry of Defence has 20 top athletes in Estonia for half a million euros a year. For example, replacement service is a very important matter. People who abandon the armed services basically go to the social welfare institutions for half a million euros for the Ministry of Defence's funds. I will mention the rehabilitation of those who have been repressed and all these kinds of things, the pension costs of the employees in active employment, the child allowances for conscripts, etc. We contribute very much to the development of the defence industry. So we are still dealing with this whole issue in a very broad way. Now I'm coming up with this particular paper. I've been asked about my previous profession in Kuressaare, I've also worked at the Defence Research Center, but I haven't read this paper. I'll take it and read it. To answer this question, whether there is still a need for an authority or an incarnation, would not simply be justified in the format of the answer to the question without having to look into the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U65	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! Well, you were really startling us right now, weren't you? This paper, to which Mr Haukanõm has just referred, is still a very important document that sets out principles. It's a shame you haven't read it. I think you'll find time to get to know it. My question, however, concerns the task force set up at the State Chancellery. I understand that this task force has been entrusted with quite a number of tasks and is expected to deliver. Is and how will the work of this task force be financed? Has it really been left on the money of the European Union alone, or does it still bet on it itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U67	Thank you. All these papers and materials that need to be read regularly... I take the blame. I can't read everything in the world, but I'm gonna take this paper and find out exactly what it is. The Centre for Defence Studies is a necessary body because it helps to think about certain topics in an alternative and "out-of-institutional" way. Their assessment is certainly valuable. Whether it is appropriate to set up some other separate bodies, this will still be clear when it is clear what the proposals are or where the shortcomings are. There are issues that cannot be resolved in the current system. If there are reasonable suggestions, I will certainly look at them. With regard to the so-called task force at the State Chancellery and all this, I know that our ministry will contribute to these groups with people if necessary, we will pay their wages ourselves. That's what other ministries do from time to time. As far as European funding is concerned, I owe the answer to the extent to which this money comes from Europe. It may be, if you're interested, to find out for you, but I can't tell by heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U68	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have listened very carefully to your answer to Mr Helme's question and I have to admit that your politically correct blue eye is simply striking. I am not going to speculate on how the main mass of Russian people will behave in the case of a military conflict with Russia, just saying that if I were a Russian, I would not raise my hand against Russia. I think a lot of Russians have exactly the same mindset. However, I have a more practical question. We have no doubt that in the event of a military conflict, Estonia will be hit by a cyber attack; this cyber attack will probably take away both electrical and communication systems from us, at least temporarily. How is the state in this situation able to communicate information so that people know what they have to do in a crisis situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U70	Thank you! As for the blue eye, thank you for the compliment! I don't think I can agree with everyone in this room and people from different parties in the world. Yes, I think that people are very rational beings, they are important values, freedom, opportunities and all that living in a normal country in the European Union versus living in another country. I am thinking of freedom of movement and all the other freedoms we have. I would certainly find, as a Russian living here, that it is much better, smarter and more reasonable to live here than anywhere else. But it is clear that we obviously cannot reach a common opinion. Thanks again for the compliment! Now for the cyber attacks. They say what doesn't kill makes you strong. After 2007, I recall that, even during the attack that came as a complete surprise, every possible system in our country remained operational, and that Estonia has progressed very much in this regard. Without being a cyber expert, I say we have some of the best solutions in the world. For example, I recently met with the United Arab Emirates Minister of Defence and the Head of the Cyber Security Agency. Those people who buy only the best in the world and want the best in terms of competence are very interested in working with us on these issues. Just before I got here, I met a senator from the United States of America who said that they wanted to learn from Estonia how to cope with cyber attacks. I would not underestimate our ability in these matters. We have the RIA and the Cyber Defence Center. NATO is doing so at the Warsaw Summit, I very much want to hope for it, from cyber to its fifth domain (to date they have been land, air, sea and space), and this will also become NATO's field of activity. This centre, also the NATO centre, the so-called exercise field and all this will be in Estonia. I think we have already proven that we can cope with cyber attacks when they happen and, believe me, there are a lot of them going on every day. So we can handle these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U71	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! You rightly said, legally and pragmatically, that volunteering is a voluntary personal matter; national defence, however, is a statutory obligation. I also have two uniforms in my closet: one is the savior's, the other one is the defence ally's. Unfortunately, in a crisis situation, I have to wear a jacket. But now my question. After all, we are talking about the rational use of resources. Consider, for example, some men who completed military service ten years ago and are no longer a man of the so-called hot reserve, but as a volunteer, he is the commander of the volunteer commando. In the event of a crisis situation, it is part of a partial mobilisation or general mobilisation. But all warfare also causes a lot of forest fires. What would be more reasonable? Would this be the point of cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and, for example, the Defence Resources Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U73	Thank you. If I understood the question correctly, then I would like to answer so I didn't notice whether a honourable member of the Riigikogu has been here the whole time I have been performing, that a volunteer appointed for the post of wartime is obliged to appear for service under certain conditions, both in the event of study gathering, additional education gathering and mobilization. The obligation of the Defence Forces, or participation in the Rapid Response Structure, remains to prelate voluntary work as a savior or assistant police officer. Defence Leagues who do not belong to a rapid response structure, i.e. who do not have a wartime position, can be used on a voluntary basis to ensure internal security. There should be no conflict here, as I understand it. If there is a crisis situation and a forest fire, and these two things can theoretically happen at exactly the same time, then we still need first and foremost to man our own units. All people who are not affected by the crewing of the units can participate in an organized manner, and, if possible, must also participate in other crises. So our resource is not "double booked," i.e. we do not have people who have to do two things at once and possibly in different parts of the country. That's how it should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U74	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, In Lithuania, more than a year ago, the Ministry of Defence issued a handbook containing 100 pages of guidance to citizens on how to act when the country is attacked and in crisis situations. I asked Mr Rõivas, who was already Prime Minister of the previous government, whether Estonia should do something similar or whether it is overreacting. At the time, he found it to be an overreaction. What are the moods of the government now, do we need to prepare our people for the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U76	Thank you! This broad-based debate on defence that we have had here today is, in my view, a good example of how broad this issue of defence we have, given the possible war situation and internal security problems, has gone. I am sadly unable to comment on last year's events, but I have also heard of this old paper from Lithuania, which really really made me talk about citizens and newspaper readers in Lithuania for some reason. If we are hit by a crisis situation, then the communication office with the government, the Defence Forces communication unit and people involved in communications at the Ministry of Defence must act in a coordinated manner. Whether or not we have added value in producing special brochures is really a matter of debate. If I answer specifically whether we have discussed this issue again, I say not to my knowledge. At least the Ministry is not working on this paper right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U77	No further questions. Thank you to the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U78	Mr. Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! To begin with, I was amazed at the Minister's last words, his blind belief in the government's communications office and other communication offices. If there is a crisis, these communication channels are likely to be down. If a person doesn't know what to do, then the risk of general panic is much greater. Today we talk a lot about the war situation, the threat of war, hybrid war, cyber attacks and other crisis situations as well. I would like to point out that the weather is quite acute in its behaviour, and this, too, can cause quite difficult situations in our country. People are most confused or panicked about what to do, how to do it, and where to go, for example, when mobile phones are cut off, there is no Internet connection anymore, but, I don't know, the snow has come down. I am in favour of Estonia, which can manage itself. It's obvious that a person could be on his head, and he could be able to do something for himself. But from the point of view of the state, people could also be informed, for example, about the situation that happens to large shopping centres when electricity has been down for three days and whether they should worry about such things. When we talk about broad-based national defence, in our society, attention may be a little over-focused on the so-called military or defence component. Wide-ranging national defence covers much more, it covers the whole of society. As I mentioned in the question, there are two basic principles: government as a whole and society as a whole. If we're thinking about local government and society, here's the place to pay attention to. In my day-to-day work, I am constantly confronted with the fact that ministries are unable to cooperate on an elementary level. They're swinging, they're really like little princesses and they're headed, I don't know, Chancellor level little princesses. From the point of view of widespread defence, such a structure is the first thing we should break or change together. Communication between these important institutions, the government as a whole, is a very important element for broad-based national defence. The State Chancellery has been set up to what it is called the Security and Defence Coordination Office. I noticed that it only includes, how to say, the ministries of power, but if we were to talk seriously about broad-based national defence, then it should certainly include the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and almost all other ministries. They should also be able to coordinate the work between themselves, because I recall that one of the biggest crises of recent times was related to the swine plague. The same swine plague crisis showed us that all the crisis management was completely out of hand, could not get together in three caves to dig a hole in the ground, and the crisis management centres in the counties basically lost their heads. So broad-soiled defense...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U79	How can I give you extra time if no one asks?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U80	No, I'm not. I'm done here. Wide area defence...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U81	Please give me an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U82	... the question has a lot to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U83	All right. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U84	Mr. President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome, in principle, the questions of the heirs and the fact that this topic has recently been discussed in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and not only here, quite often. This shows that problems are not overlooked, problems are gradually recognised. True, it seems to me that it is sometimes done slowly, and the layer of protection of political correctness that the Teflon politicians have grown on themselves in "good weather" times is still too thick. But as once said by a secretary-general who screwed up the Soviet Union: the process went ahead, or the process of pocho. So something's going on. However, having listened to these answers, I must say that to a considerable extent it all reminded me of the Russian and world literary classic Lev Tolstoy 'War and Peace'. Lev Tolstoi wrote in the Austrian battle scenes that the Russians were amazed at how the Austrians planned the operations, how they recorded that the first column marched there, the second column marched there, the third column marched there. But Napoleon, for some reason, the bad guy like that, didn't agree with the plans of the Austrian General Staff, where the columns were supposed to march, and invaded somewhere else. He confused all these plans and lured the enemy's columns where there were no French troops at all and gave the Russians and Austrians a destructive blow in the battle of Austerlitz. It reminded me when I heard how we have one column going in that direction, and the other column going in the other direction, that by 2020, we have this capability, and by 2022 we have another or a third capability. We're in a crisis situation. We saw the Russians taking troops to Syria unexpectedly. We saw the sudden withdrawal of their troops from Syria. We see the Russians playing with Ukraine like a cat with a mouse. We see that almost all the time, large-scale military exercises are taking place in the immediate vicinity of our borders. We cannot feel safe and follow the plan, thought and action of marching columns of the Austrian General Staff needs to be speeded up a little. I have called on this speaker several times that we should not be so bureaucratic or so inflexible. Unfortunately, the same bureaucracy and inflexibility also emerged from today's responses. Mr. Minister, don't get me wrong! We are moving in the right direction, but we need to increase the pace. We're not on schedule, our potential enemy is moving at a much faster pace, not to mention that he has much more resources. It is right and very good that the Americans basically gave us a gift from Javeline. Excellent! But more is needed and faster is needed. I'm glad we have a task force. But more is needed and faster is needed. I'm really glad we've got cyber capabilities. But we cannot be sure that our cyber capabilities are stronger than those of us. On the contrary, I am convinced that they will at least partially manage to paralyze our communications for a certain time. For how long, we don't know, here may decide the days. This is a very acute question, because it may be the lives of thousands of people, but it is definitely about dealing with hundreds and thousands of lives. These are very acute problems, these are not such things that the first column marches there and the second column to another place. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U85	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U86	I just wanted to add that the necks of the bottle are very well known to us. There is no other way to stretch them out than to cooperate with our allies. My groupmates Martin Helme and Jaak Madison recently visited the United States, where they had very interesting meetings in think tanks. They brought in in-depth materials, tables, numbers and analyses of the military capabilities of our potential opponent and the capabilities of our allies. I don't encourage panic, but unfortunately, the military capabilities of most of our allies are such that they are essentially not. This is now the place where we have to contact our allies, trample on their toes and demand that they help us with our armaments and training so that we are able to repel the attack ourselves. This is our only chance, because we cannot count on the help of our allies in a few days of conflict, maybe we can get help in a few weeks, but then it could all be over if we don't have the appropriate capabilities. It's the DOD's job, it's the State Department's job, it's the Home Office's job. We must have this ability so that we can endure as long as our allies can no longer delay decisions. That's the message. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U87	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U88	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague, Mart Helme, here, gave such a very nice example of war history, and I am the example of the military today. The Defence Forces are far more pragmatic people than politicians. They just say that if you have a very good battle plan, you can be sure that this plan will go behind the fence in the first meeting with your opponent. But it's also said that if you don't even have a plan, it'll all go behind the fence. So let us make plans and bring them to life with strength! I agree that since the re-establishment of the Republic of Estonia, our primary defence capacity and development of it have been a priority, unfortunately, the money simply does not go on everywhere. 'Departure' is the keyword for which our defence forces have been built. Believe me, it would not discourage our potential opponent if every Estonian citizen had a shelter with clean drinking water and pasta. He wouldn't be intimidated. He is still intimidated by our primary defence capacity and the presence of our allies, which does not mean, as I would like to say now, that population protection is something third-rate. The money's just as much as it is. Let us be honest, not only in Estonia, but also in Europe and the rest of the world, after the end of the Cold War, have lived in an illusion of security and a desire to think that the Soviet Union has now collapsed and a thousand-year-old state of peace has arrived. Mr Talvik said that, for some reason, we are focusing too much on military defence. Arthur, I completely agree with that, only that was a reproach at the wrong address. It is precisely the military defence that the Minister of Defence before us is dealing with, so perhaps this complaint was intended for the Minister of the Interior, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U89	Members of the Riigikogu do not want to speak again. Would you like a minister? He doesn't want a word either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U90	The next question is presented by Monika Haukanõmm, Ain Lutsepp, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Andres Herkel and Artur Talvik. The speaker of the heirs is Monika Haukanõm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U91	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! I will brief you briefly on the question of the members of the Free Party Group regarding the fulfilment of international obligations in the field of persons with disabilities. In fact, in 2012 the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force in Estonia, the ratification of which led the state to commit itself, or rather to commit itself to continuously improving the situation of persons with disabilities. For the first time, the Convention brings together the rights of persons with disabilities in a single internationally binding instrument. Although, yes, earlier international agreements on the protection of human rights also contain mechanisms to ensure that real steps are taken to improve the situation, it is precisely in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that, as an innovative provision, requires the creation of an independent monitoring mechanism for the Convention, involving people with disabilities and their representative organisations. Article 33 (2) is the most important for the implementation and monitoring of the Convention, according to which it is the responsibility of the State to designate or establish an independent mechanism to promote, protect and monitor the implementation of the Convention. The creation of an independent mechanism has been analysed several times: in 2012 and 2013 it was carried out by the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People in Praxis and in 2014 it was further carried out in Praxis. On both occasions, it was agreed that the most appropriate and realistic solution could be to appoint an independent monitoring body as the institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. The mandate of the Commissioner, as we know, is very precisely laid down in the Equal Treatment Act, but we also know that the mandate of the Commissioner has been given there far more restrictively than the Convention requires. In order to establish an independent monitoring mechanism for the Commissioner's institution, it is clearly necessary to amend the Equal Treatment Act and to provide the Commissioner with the resources necessary to carry out his work, i.e. both human resources and funding. In preparation for the ratification of the Convention, EUR 30000 has been earmarked for this in several years. Unfortunately, we cannot say today, despite thorough preparatory work and the availability of financial resources, that this independent monitoring mechanism would be in place. The need to amend the Equal Treatment Act has been known to the Ministry since spring 2014 when the joint project of Praxis and the Human Rights Centre, which made such a decision, ended. Today, however, we read with surprise that we already had such a Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. But that's only part of the truth. I understand that and I acknowledge that the Ministry has made efforts to establish a monitoring mechanism. We all remember that the desire for an independent monitoring mechanism was included in the intention to develop the Equal Treatment Act on an ongoing basis, but unfortunately the Ministry of Justice did not coordinate it. As a result, the process of setting up an independent monitoring mechanism has again stopped. That is why we want an overview of how far we have come with the preparation process, what are the future plans of the Ministry and when we can report to the UN that this mechanism has been set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U92	Minister of Social Security Margus Tsahkna, please answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U93	Dear Chairman, Good questioners! I'd be happy to answer your questions. It would be particularly good to answer these questions concerning the activities of previous ministers, but I would rather talk about what we are doing now. The questions are as follows: The first question: 'The need to amend the Equal Treatment Act has been known to the Ministry of Social Affairs since 2014 when the decision was taken. The Equal Treatment Act has been wanted to be amended for many years, but it has always faced political confrontation. The desire for an independent monitoring mechanism was included in the ongoing development plan, which was sent to coordination on 03.07.2015. The Ministry of Justice did not coordinate the development plan, resulting in a resumption of the process of setting up an independent mechanism. Question: By ratifying the Convention in 2012, Estonia committed itself to establishing an independent monitoring mechanism in accordance with Article 33 (2) of the Convention. How and when will the Ministry begin to comply formally and essentially with the international commitment taken four years ago? ' By ratifying the convention, Estonia became obliged to establish an independent monitoring mechanism. We have done in-depth preparatory work to establish an independent monitoring mechanism to promote, protect and monitor the implementation of the Convention, and we have come to the view that it would be the most appropriate institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. We are now preparing an amendment to the Equal Treatment Act, which gives the Commissioner the task of monitoring the Convention. The plan is as follows: during 2016, the draft should be sent to the coordination circle and adopted in the first half of 2017. In the round of coordination, the Ministry of Justice must discuss the issues that have been left before. As regards the political confrontation that has been referred to, I cannot comment at the moment on what it has been behind in the past, but we have taken a clear direction that we will comply with this agreement, which Estonia has signed, and we will also ensure the creation of an independent institution in Estonia with this function. Question 2: 'Does Estonia have a plan for the creation of an institution that complies with the Paris principles, which requires the state to ensure a sufficiently broad mandate, funding and manhood? ' At the moment, we consider the best solution to be the provision of the Convention's monitoring function to the existing mechanism and the reorganisation of the Commissioner's office into an institution which is as well in line with the Paris principles as possible. The establishment of institutions that comply with the Paris principles or the adaptation of existing ones to these principles is a longer process, and therefore the delay in setting up or designating a monitoring mechanism until an entity fully compliant with the Paris principles becomes operational may run counter to the commitments made by the ratification of the Convention and to our substantive objectives. So these legislative changes that we are preparing, we also want to implement. The following question: 'It is stated in paragraph 257 of the State Report sent to the United Nations in November 2015 that the work of the Prax Centre for Policy Studies resulted in the creation of a Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Question: What kind of organisation does the Committee work for, what is the result of the work achieved so far and what is the budget for the Committee's activities? ' In 2013, the Ministry of Social Affairs organised a public competition for the creation of a mechanism for monitoring the Convention, which was won by the Centre for Political Studies in Praxis. The task of Praxis was to establish a mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the Convention and to coordinate its work. As a result of the study, the Committee was established in accordance with Article 33 (2) of the Convention. The Committee was composed of experts who drew up preliminary principles and indicators to monitor the implementation of the Convention. The weakness of this solution was the fact that the EESC consisted of separate experts who did not represent people with disabilities at large and did not achieve a legal basis for this activity. It was also agreed that, rather than creating a new institution, it would be reasonable to entrust these tasks to the existing institution to ensure a lasting and optimal solution by which agreement was reached with the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner. As of 1 January 2015, the basic budget of the Commissioner's Office was increased by EUR 80000 to ensure permanent funding and staffing to prepare for the transposition of the monitoring of the Convention and subsequently to fulfil this obligation, in order to prepare the commissioner's offices for the transposition of the functions resulting from the Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U94	Questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Am I right to understand that we have given the UN the impression that the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which has essentially ceased its activities and which has only been together three or four times, is as if it were a supervisory body that has not been established here? I mean, that's the UN's impression. The prevailing view that this task should be entrusted to an existing institution is probably correct. But here is the point: what are these arguments why the Commissioner for Equal Treatment is better for this purpose than, for example, the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U96	Thank you. Good question. I don't know what the UN looks like. The state has, I hope, provided these data and the information we have, and this is a process that takes time. However, this is something that the Ministry has that I, as a minister, can confirm the clear desire and plan to really transfer these specific rights, obligations and powers under the law to the Commissioner's office and to provide for real resources to enable the Commissioner's office to carry out this task. As regards why it is precisely the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment that is right to do so, we have analysed it. Firstly, it deals with the protection of the rights of these target groups. Secondly, under the law, he was created as a so-called independent institution. Looking at the issues that the Commissioner is dealing with, it is clear that, logically, this competence exists there rather than in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. As far as my personal position is concerned, however, the specific question is whether the institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment should be separate or whether it should be with the Chancellor of Justice, as is the institution of the child ombudsman. When the issue of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment, or the creation of this institution, was under discussion, I was also one of those who asked this question. At the time, however, the political will was such that the Commissioner's institution was created in isolation. At the moment, in relation to this particular issue, it must be said that the most logical place to carry out these tasks is precisely the institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U97	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Before you decided where this so-called independent mechanism could be located, you certainly had an overview of how our neighbours have resolved this situation. Can you give an example of our neighbouring countries, Latvia, Lithuania or the Nordic countries, of which institution this mechanism has been set up there or what paths have been taken in creating it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U99	Thank you, good questioner! I have to be honest with you, I can't tell by heart these examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U100	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People was involved in this report, they were included in this work, but after the report had been sent, the House of Disabled People was not asked how it felt before. It could also have gone through the Social Affairs Committee. It had not been dealt with there either, and there were a number of questions about the report today. Do you think that in future these two bodies could be involved in discussing such matters or, rather, in issuing them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U102	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, all target groups, ministries, etc. were involved in drafting the report. There is no such practice that it must be coordinated with the representatives of these organisations before the report is submitted. However, this report has been forwarded to all these organisations, and I am pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs has also discussed it today. The way it has been done is the way it should be done, which means that when the report was drawn up, input was taken from all those involved, especially the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, and the report is available to everyone today. I am pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs is also discussing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U103	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U104	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! In the days of the Singing Revolution, when Indrek Toome gave a speech in the Song Festival Grounds, the people chanted: "Say the same thing in Moscow! ' By paraphrasing it, I would like to ask the following question. A moment ago, you expressed a very interesting point of view on the institution of the Commissioner for Equal Treatment. Are you willing to say the same in the government and make such a suggestion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U105	Thank you, good questioner! I'm not going to Moscow to talk, it's another man who probably just got back from there yesterday or this morning. But this proposal, yes, as regards the national reform agenda, has been forwarded to the Minister of State Administration. This requires analysis and, at the same time, decisions. I have communicated my position and it is also clearly fixed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U106	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U107	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! I hope you are familiar with the fact that even in the European Parliament, as a representative of Estonia, there is such an important person as Indrek Tarand, Vice-President of the Intergroup representing the interests of people with disabilities. He has been concerned about what is happening in Estonia. In particular, a commitment has been made that the Commissioner for Equal Treatment will be able to comply with the Paris Convention principles from 2017. Can you tell me how far this action is, whether legislative changes are being made and whether funding is guaranteed to the Commissioner for Equal Treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U108	Thank you, good questioner! As I said earlier in answering the question, our plan is to get coordination during this year and come to Parliament so that these legislative changes can be made. As far as financing is concerned, the preparation money was increased in 2015, i.e. by EUR 80000 the basic budget was increased, which means that it will continue to be included in the Commissioner's budget for the years to come. As regards the negotiations on the Commissioner's budget, I must admit that this is a strange process. In the same way, the Commissioner should be a completely independent institution, but his budget is still under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. As regards the negotiations on the state budget for the next and the following year, we are currently discussing with the Ministry of Finance that, as far as it is an independent institution, these negotiations should also be 'independent'. That is the pure question of negotiation. However, if a change of law receives support in the Riigikogu and is implemented politically, then the means must also be provided to enable the Paris agreements to be honoured. It's natural.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U109	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is short. The word "Paris Convention Principles" ran through your answer. What are these?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U111	Thank you. It is a longer document that defines the'monitoring mechanism' and the principles of protection of the interests of persons with disabilities and special needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U112	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U113	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. The Convention explicitly states that if a State ratifies the Convention, it will have to report within two years. Therefore, if we had wanted to carry out this task with German precision, we should have submitted this report on 30 June 2014. We filed it late, November 2015. That's it. Today's inquiry led us to present the report in point 257, from which we read, as if the Commission required by Article 33 had already been put into work and would include a number of experts who would monitor the implementation of the Convention in the light of agreed principles and indicators. In fact, it is true, the Commission was formed in 2014 and it came together three or four times. But the Commission has not done its work in essence since then, which means that it is lightly in the shadows. Why? Because the Commission needs a place or body to act on and a legal mandate. Otherwise, instead of the Commission, it is a group of nice and smart people on a voluntary basis who do this work out of their free will and without their powers. Such action is indeed incompatible with the Convention. Article 33 (2) obliges countries, as we have already heard, to create this independent mechanism, which has been discussed at length today. But it also turns out that this body must promote the protection of human rights and, in doing so, bear in mind the so-called Paris Principles. Since the Minister answered this question in very general terms, I will highlight the five principles that the Paris principles mean. Firstly, this body has a mandate that must be clearly enshrined in the Constitution or the Law. Secondly, the body which carries out independent supervision must be completely independent of the executive and adequately funded. As we have heard, the Commissioner's office is obviously not entirely independent of the executive. Thirdly, relations with stakeholders, stakeholders must be constantly involved in the drafting of these reports. Fourthly, access to various information must be guaranteed. Fifthly, this body must inform the public about the Convention and be able to do so at different levels. The question arises as to whether anyone in Estonia could answer these Paris principles and who it might be. The very short answer is that we do not actually have a 100% establishment at the moment that corresponds to these principles. The Chancellor of Justice also does not fully respond to the Paris principles. Where institutions are assessed, they shall be classified as level A, B or C institutions. But the Chancellor of Justice is still missing something here. The deficit relates precisely to this third point, I am thinking of relations with stakeholders. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U114	Three minutes? Yeah, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U115	The Minister here expressed his hope or opinion that, in future, the Commissioner could be placed under the Chancellor of Justice. This can only be welcomed, because it really is the right place to perform an independent supervisory function by the Chancellor of Justice institution. Who else could fit in? Certainly, the institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment responds partly to the Paris principles, but much less than the institution of the Chancellor of Justice, i.e. quite a lot of changes should be made in both legal and operational practice. I asked the Minister how other countries have dealt with this situation. In most cases, this monitoring function is given to so-called national human rights organisations or institutes. In Latvia and Lithuania, for example, this has been given to the Ombudsman. Thus, the third option that could be considered in Estonia is to give a supervisory function to non-governmental organisations involved in human rights and their protection. We have two of them: the Estonian Human Rights Centre and the Institute of Human Rights. But they'd be far from the Paris principles, of course. The fourth option would be to create a new separate organisation, which would start monitoring, but it would probably not be the most sensible solution either. So we don't have a lot of options. Therefore, the real and tangible solution is to give a supervisory function to the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment, but this requires a change of law. We expect the Government of the Republic to act very quickly and an amendment to the Equal Treatment Act, which would transfer the function of independent supervision at law level to the Commissioner. So you have the strength and we look forward to the law initiative! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U116	Good waitress, thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U117	Let's move on to the next question. This is the fourth in line today and the members of the Riigikogu presented it on 11 February 2016. An inquiry shall be made in respect of a maintenance fund and shall bear the number 152. The Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, will answer the question. Please contact Kadri Simson, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, who will introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. More than a year ago, the Riigikogu, by a majority of its members, adopted a decision according to which, as from 1 January 2016, the National Maintenance Fund had to be implemented in Estonia. It is already March, but this fund is not available, although the Riigikogu has decided so. The decision provided for the establishment of a state institution, the State Support Fund, whose task is to ensure that child maintenance is paid on time at least at a minimum rate which, according to the Family Law, is half the minimum wage determined by the Government of the Republic. This year it would be EUR 215. We would like to know from the Minister why the implementation of this decision has been delayed for a year and why the Riigikogu decision provides for a cut of EUR 215 to EUR 100 per month. I'm not going to read the questions, the Minister will be more comfortable asking himself questions and answering them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U119	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. A good questioner who also represents all the other questioners! I say first of all that the implementation of the principle of a maintenance fund has been a very long story. I am very pleased that we have reached the point that in March I will be in the government with a bill, and the Riigikogu will have the opportunity, I hope, that the Riigikogu will use this opportunity to adopt this law in this Chamber before Midsummer Day. The path to this decision has been very long. Before I begin to answer specific questions, I would like to say that it has been clear from the questioners that there has been a desire to raise such a subject of political bargaining or harassment between themselves. Let me just remind you where we were going and where we've come from. These views, which were still a few years ago on the implementation of the principle of a support fund by political parties, were not consensual. But this consensus, it seems to me so, and I hope so, we have achieved it here in this Chamber. Although two political parties have been added to Parliament since the decision taken in 2015, I hope that these parties will support the decision to implement the support fund. Now I will go to specific questions. The first question: 'The Riigikogu adopted a decision according to which the Government of the Republic had to develop a state support fund, which was to be implemented on 1 January 2016. Why has the Government of the Republic not complied with the decision of the Riigikogu? Do you think the Riigikogu's decisions are not to be enforced? This is the answer. I myself was the person who initiated this draft decision of the Riigikogu here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. The purpose of this draft decision was precisely to reach political consensus and to propose to the government that was then in office that the principles for implementing the Fund be developed, with a view to its being operational on 1 January 2016. For the first time, we actually described it at political level and, by consensus, approved this principle, the scheme on which the support fund has been set up at all. This principle has not been applied in Estonia before. We know that one in four children in Estonia lives in a family where one parent raises the child, and a very large number of these children do not receive maintenance support from their other parent. We also know that single parents' households are in the most difficult economic situation in Estonia. That is why, together with the organisations that represent these households, we have developed the principle of this support fund. I want to settle one more thing to prepare you for perhaps a discussion in this hall. This is not a new type of child or family allowance. It is a stand-alone scheme that aims to give a very clear message that if parents have also broken up, you still need to take care of your child. If the court has ordered maintenance aid, the aid must be paid. If a decision is made to stay in debt, to evade your obligation to both the child and society, then that person's life will turn into hell. The maintenance fund does not mean the whole picture, but the other part of the matter is also how debts are received from debtors. On 1 March this year, a number of measures have already entered into force to make life more difficult for maintenance creditors and to give more rights to bailiffs in order to recover those debts that concern children. We must understand that this money is owed not to another parent or country, but to children. The amount owed to children today is more than EUR 10 million. That money belongs to these kids. The logic of the maintenance fund is that, in any case, the aim is to obtain from the debtor the money he owes to his child. Children are not to blame if parents do not get along for whatever reason and one parent does not contribute to raising and developing his or her child. We compensate, at a time when the debtor does not pay, for maintenance aid of up to EUR 100 per month, i.e. up to EUR 100, the amount paid by the State for its part to guarantee the child at least that amount each month. When we talk about what is now and what will happen in the future, nothing is being taken away from anyone when thinking about children, but we are creating a whole new system. In this sense, the decision of the Riigikogu has basically been complied with. Good Kadri, I too gave the former Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas a lot of fire when this decision of the Riigikogu was adopted here, and I received unspeakable answers as to whether or not this fund was coming. I asked the same question as to whether the decision of the Riigikogu was not to comply with the Government of the Republic. The Prime Minister, who is still in office at the time, replied that, yes, the decision of the Riigikogu is for the Government of the Republic to comply with it, although he could have said in a purely legal way that the Government of the Republic would take note of this decision and act on the basis of its will. Now I can assure you that this decision was very helpful and helpful when we held coalition negotiations. On the same subject, I myself, as one of the negotiators, have negotiated in previous coalition negotiations. But so specifically, consensually, with the support of all political parties, the real support fund scheme and principle had not been negotiated, and this decision of the Riigikogu was a great support in these negotiations. I can say that the Government of the Republic actually implements the same decision of the Riigikogu. I recall that elections took place in 2015 and that the Government of the Republic did not take up office until April when new ministers took up office. The development of the support fund scheme and its legal basis has been a priority for the Ministry of Social Affairs and, above all, for the Minister of Social Protection. I can say that no day has passed in such a way that our officials would not have worked to implement this decision. I can say that the draft law with solutions and applications, as well as the national budget allocations agreed in the country's budget strategy, have now been completed. It will come to the Riigikogu for discussion in the coming days. So, to conclude this first answer, I want to thank all the people who have been working on this for years. I must admit that I have also seen politicians say that single parent problems are one parent's own solution and why the taxpayer should start paying the maintenance payments that somebody has owed. As a result of this quite long work, I hope now, and I am even absolutely sure that the Riigikogu will support the start-up of the support fund scheme from 1 January 2017. The second question: 'Why have you retreated from your initial promise to pay through the National Support Fund the minimum maintenance rate ( 215 euros in 2016) and exchanged it for 100 euros? Based on which analysis did the corresponding amount come to light? ' 100 euros is not a small amount. There's a lot of reasons back here. We have also analysed the experience of our neighbouring countries, Latvia and Finland, as well as Sweden, in applying this very principle of the support fund. The aim is to ensure that reasonable and adequate monthly maintenance assistance is paid to children who are owed and who have been the subject of such a judgment. Secondly, in order to avoid the idea that there is no point in paying anyway, because the State will cover this missing maintenance aid, the amount of maintenance aid is not excessive either. It forms part of the maintenance claims demanded by the court. But I want to remind you once again that this is not some new support that is simply given, it is a 'demand'. If the State also pays the EUR 100, it shall be recovered from the debtor. It is in our interest that we can actually recover this money from as many debtors as possible. To this end, together with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, we have worked hard to get the money and to protect children's interests as a matter of priority. The third question: 'The living aid fund has been discussed at length. How do you justify this delay and postponement for people who have been looking forward to this fund? ' I am pleased that the members of the Central Party Group have joined the ranks of people who want the support fund scheme to actually be put into practice. I can tell you that time has not been wasted and has not been stretched. Above all, I would like to congratulate those people who have not been politicians and have not worked here on quite a salary, but who have been raising this issue alongside their lives for years. I've had a chance to work with them all these years. I don't think there's a need for political toiletry here. Now there is a political decision in the coalition agreement, and the very difficult budget negotiations have also found EUR 7.2 million, which is not a small amount at all, for the initial money so that the support fund can actually start working. There is no need for any declarative decisions to be taken again. There has been very hard work here since the day this political agreement was reached. Parliament has an opportunity, and I hope that it will also be obliged to comply with the decisions of the previous Parliament and actually bring the maintenance fund into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U121	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Since we have not yet seen the results of this hard work here in the Riigikogu, I have a question about how the lives of the people who owe child support will be turned into hell. You have spoken here about tough measures, you have spoken about them today, and you have spoken before, but what are these tough measures specifically? I think we are all interested that the country should not be left in deficit and that money from debtors should be recovered, but it must also be done in a way that is in line with the rule of law. This is probably why the Ministry of Justice has such a key position in this analysis. What are the measures to be taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U123	Thank you, good questioner! From 1 March, some of these measures, which were agreed by the previous Riigikogu, have already entered into force. This concerns, in particular, the extension of the rights of bailiffs in accessing the accounts of maintenance creditors. It is also an obligation for executive officers to not just leave this debt on the corner of the table, but to act in practice at least once a year and to recall this requirement every month. Similarly, there is now a right concerning the seizure of movable property and access to the debtor's property. It should also be mentioned that, when the realisation of debtors' debt claims is considered, children's claims are at the top, above the claims of banks and others. In this sense, a very big job has been done here in the Riigikogu and also in the Ministry of Justice. It is a large institution that is precisely designed to collect maintenance debts, because the aim is to actually recover these debts. Similarly, sanctions have entered into force concerning the various rights which people are granted and which are not their fundamental rights. For example, the possibility of suspending the validity of driving licences and fishing and hunting licences has entered into force today. However, I say that the next year will show what works and what does not work. But that is not enough, because if we think about the logic of why the state is taking on this claim at all, then the reason is that the state has a much better chance of getting information about the debtor and recovering debts from him. I do not understand why the state should pay the maintenance creditor for its part, or the state's taxpayers' money, for example, in his second pension pillar. I am perfectly clear that if a person owes the state, the state should not pay taxpayers' money to his second pillar. That's one way. There has been talk about whether we can limit, for example, a person's travel opportunities, the issue of travel documents to him or her. This, too, is a national competence because travel is not a fundamental right. Whether we can do this within the European Union is already a special issue. But there are still and still there are, because as an e-state, we have a very thorough view of all this. For example, one of the important tools is the employment register, where employers are obliged to record their employees' data officially. We know what amounts are actually paid through the collection of social tax. As a result of the same legislative amendment, it is possible to verify what has actually been paid into the account. It is very often the case that a person who is in debt has his or her salary credited to a relative or someone else's account. It can be identified and these bills can now be seized and taken from it. So we have created a whole series of measures. It is up to us to see if all of this is going to work and with what result it will work, and if necessary, corrections must be made. But what I want to say is that the aim is not for the country to start repressing anyone at any cost. We just have to follow this logic and look at the whole picture. We are talking about children, their interests and minimum protection of their interests. We are talking about the fact that if the court has decided to make a living, the court has made its decision as an independent institution. The question is that, in my opinion, the general opinion of society on whether we have to protect all children has also changed during the long-term debate. I say that the opinion of society has become increasingly positive, otherwise in this Chamber in 2015, we would not have obtained the unanimous support of four parties for the creation of a support fund for maintenance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U124	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U125	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Happy International Single Parenthood Day, which is today! A study describing the situation of single parents was also presented today, according to which 35% of single parents should receive maintenance payments on the basis of a court decision, but the judgment will be enforced in 55% of cases. The bailiff who was in the study presentation said that bailiffs really have the means to collect the money, but he had some further ideas on how it could be more effective, for example, if he could monitor the accounts of loved ones in debt more widely. What are your thoughts or plans? Will the bailiffs be given more rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U126	Thank you. In-depth negotiations have taken place with the Chamber of bailiffs in preparation for this draft. Whether to give them even more rights is a separate issue. We have expanded their rights. In my opinion, the most important thing is that bailiffs understand that dealing with these requirements is their priority. They may not be most important to them financially, because it is certainly more economical to deal with claims where interchange fees are easier to come and debt is easier to obtain. Recovery of maintenance provisions is extremely difficult. I say, however, that if it is necessary to extend their rights, we must look at the 'rule of law' to whom we freely grant how many rights to control someone's bills. It has to be based on some kind of information and it has to be justified, it can't turn into a real police state. There must be some sort of balance point. As a country, we have taken very long steps and we have increased these rights. We have also increased the rights of children concerning maintenance debts and their rights to this assistance. I think we're gonna have to watch this all work. I am pleased that bailiffs have been very involved in this matter. That's right. But I've also been asked what the effects of this system might be. It would be easy to say that first we are demanding these debts very harshly, and while we are providing up to EUR 100 monthly maintenance support for the child, that is the effect. If we look a little wider, of course, the effect is that, together with raising other child benefits as well as the subsistence limit (which is EUR 130 this year), the real objective is to provide children with self-realisation and material support, while coping with these families. Another effect, which has been said very little, is that of violence against women and domestic violence. Very often we meet here precisely fearless tactics. Domestic violence is tolerated for years because it is not certain that it will be possible to cope alone. The villain often uses the argument that you might leave me with the kids, but you can't do it, I won't pay you a dime a living, I'll make your life hell. With this step, we will give real support to these women and children in most cases, and we will also send them the message that the state has taken a very strong stand on their side. This is what, I hope, encourages very many people who have been psychologically imprisoned in this violent situation for years to take a bold decision. They now know that the state, together with all the support structures created in the country with non-profit organisations, is on their side so that they do not have to tolerate this violence themselves and make their children's lives very difficult in the future. Domestic violence still has the greatest impact on growing children.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U127	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U128	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! This morning, Vikerraadio was visited by Pille Tsopp, a member of the Board of the Women's Support and Information Centre, introducing the situation of single parents. He brought out two fears. I'm asking if you share these fears. One fear is that measures to punish debtors can go so far that if a father, who is supposed to pay for a living, is a driver, he will be deprived of his license and he will lose his job. Perhaps these measures may eventually lead to the fact that there is nothing to pay for this other side, which should help raise its children. Another problem is that it is felt as if, because of the support fund, the state would be a stronger party, that is, the one that is being called for money will never come up with this EUR 250, but it will accept this minimum, EUR 100, and still be the loser of a single parent. How do you comment on these fears?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U129	Thank you. For the first part of the question, there is a little illogical here. I was also critical when these possible sanctions and the withdrawal of driving licences were dealt with in the previous Riigikogu. It was specifically discussed that if a person works and needs a driver's license to carry out his duties, for example, it could not be taken away. I'm just reminding you that when a person works, he gets paid, and when he gets paid, he has to take care of his baby. The argument that I cannot be sanctioned, which does not allow me to work and get paid, because then, suddenly, I will not be able to pay the maintenance debt in the future, does not make much sense. Secondly, this sanction is not automatic. If an agreement is reached and a person begins to pay his debt, this sanction will probably not be imposed or suspended and the person will be able to go to work. I also have to say that, according to this law, the validity of a driving licence cannot be suspended if a person needs it to earn a living, which I think is a weak spot in this law, there is illogicality in it. We should establish such a logic that, if we have children, whether parents live together or not, it is our duty to support our children. If we look at the minimum standards that have been passed in court, they can be met if we want them very much and when a person is working. I would like to remind you that the idea of this system is not only to get money from debtors, but the idea of the system is also to give a very clear signal that there is a zero tolerance in Estonian society at the level of the state for maintenance creditors. Maybe those who are not in debt today will avoid getting into this situation in the future. It is more meaningful to value your child and to contribute to the development of your child.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U130	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. At the beginning, you gave examples that such a maintenance fund already exists in Latvia and Finland. Can you speak briefly, purely in terms of our education, about the proportion of people who owe child support in Estonian society compared to their share in our neighbouring countries, if you can compare them with someone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U132	Thank you. I do not have statistics on other countries on how much they owe and what the proportion of maintenance creditors is. However, as far as Sweden and Finland are concerned, this proportion is lower, and Latvia is rather, I say by memory, in a situation similar to ours. Perhaps this is also a cultural issue. These funds are a little different from technical principles. But this issue is all over the place in the sense that if you break up, people don't take care of their kids anymore. Somehow it's taken to be a new life, and the old one stays behind. But the children still need the support of both parents. In the case of Sweden, for example, it is interesting that it is compulsory to register paternity in Sweden. Father is registered after birth in any case. We still have the fact that the other parent isn't registered, isn't registered. That is when single parents are literally born, even though fathers exist. In Sweden, this is the way in which the father must in any case be registered. This has, of course, led to the fact that, for example, it is very often in Sweden that these procedures are carried out and the baby is born. These are such exceptional cases, but in Sweden this issue is more and more regulated. But this, of course, also concerns the parental benefit system and the role of fathers there. So giving priority to the role of father in Estonia during the whole time of raising a child and making the parental benefit system more flexible is one of the issues I hope to come to you in the near future. This topic is a little wider. In my opinion, we have increasingly prioritised the role of father in society. If we look at those who receive parental benefit, unfortunately, almost 94% of them are women, but the proportion of fathers is increasing. I hope that, in the long term, we will have to deal less and less with support debtors.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U133	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In order to receive the allowance, the parent must apply to the court for a debt claim. That means there's a pretty long trial ahead of us. After the maintenance has been demanded, there will certainly be a so-called enforcement procedure, which will make this process even longer, i.e. bailiffs will collect debt. This raised the question of how long it was foreseen that the State would pay the maintenance aid for the debtor. This period isn't gonna get any longer than the whole procedure takes, is it? Is there a time limit on how long it will be paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U135	Thank you. This process itself looks like this. First, we hope that people will agree on how they contribute to raising a child. Very many people in Estonia do this; many fathers and mothers care about raising their children even after leaving. If no agreement is reached and one party considers that the other party does not pay the agreed maintenance allowance, it will have the opportunity to apply to the courts. With this legislative amendment, with which we come before you, we will increase the amount of maintenance allowance paid during the course of the proceedings to the same EUR 100 and extend the period of payment to 90 days, which to date was 70 days. This is then the period during which the court will normally, even at the primary level, be able to claim the minimum amount of maintenance aid to make that decision. Our interest is that if there is a problem and a person turns to the court, he will actually receive the protection and support of the state. As regards the amount of EUR 100 per month paid by the State for a long period of time, this will take place until the child reaches the age of 21, as long as the law also provides for the maintenance of the child, even at the time of his or her education. However, this requirement does not expire during this period, since the law which entered into force on 1 March extended the expiry date of the claim. In summing up, I can say that we significantly extended the period during which the State provides aid and support, even during the course of the dispute, we increased the amount paid at that time, and even when the maintenance fund scheme is in operation, the claim remains a requirement. It shall expire on the basis of a time limit laid down by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U136	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu to speak to Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer your question, Külliiki. In the previous composition, we discussed this issue of the support fund very long. Studies show that sanctions must begin. Latvia started at the wrong end, started with a maintenance fund, no sanctions, and the percentage that the country recovered from the money was very small. Sweden started at the right end, and the money they get back from their maintenance creditors is quite another, many times bigger. When it comes to zero tolerance, I do not think that sanctions should not be applied in full, because the aim is to get the money back, not to overlook maintenance creditors. If you go back in time, it was the Social Democrats who submitted a draft decision to the Riigikogu on the creation of a maintenance fund. When we went to the government, the idea of creating this fund stopped for a while, but when I was chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I was very pleased that all members of the committee, regardless of the political party, came along with this idea, and we took such an unprecedented decision in this Chamber of the Riigikogu during the previous term that we made an obligation for the government to set up a support fund. I would like to say thank you very much to Margus Tsahkna and the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who have finally thought about setting up a support fund, the principles of this fund have been written down and will soon reach the grand hall of the Riigikogu. Indeed, as Margus said, this time it was very easy to put this support fund into a coalition agreement, because it had been agreed that the next Riigikogu would create this fund. The most important thing is that a child needs money when it grows, needs it every month and every day. If we demand this money afterwards and if there is any way that the money will be received, the child will not be filled with it afterwards. This will certainly be of great help to a parent who needs to raise a child alone if another parent who is obliged to pay for child support fails to fulfil his obligation. I very much hope that this draft will arrive bitterly at the Commission, I do not know whether it will come to the Committee on Legal Affairs or the Committee on Social Affairs. In any case, the members of the Riigikogu are ready to process it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U138	I thank the waitress! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U139	We are going to the fifth question, which is number 162 and which is the subject of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Reply by Mr Margus Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. I ask Kadri Simson, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, who will introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U140	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Our question to the Minister for Social Protection concerns the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force in Estonia on 14 April 2012, the ratification of which committed the country to continuously improve the situation of persons with disabilities. A body was also set up as part of this, which should monitor independently that we fulfil these obligations. The EESC monitors the situation of people with disabilities in Estonia and makes proposals to the Government of the Republic to solve problems related to the rights of persons with disabilities. Its role is also to raise awareness of the rights of persons with disabilities and to organise training and information days. This seems to have met all the obligations of the country, but concerns arise that, regardless of the Convention and the existing supervisory body, people with disabilities have problems with access to the physical environment and transport. The latest news was that the ferry between Hiiumaa and the mainland is impossible for disabled people to get off the car deck. Article 9 of the Convention provides that the State shall grant persons with disabilities access to the physical environment on an equal basis with others, but we shall lay bare our hands. That is why we have a number of questions for the Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U141	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good questioner! I'll read the question and then the answer. Question 1: 'How do you assess the accessibility of people with disabilities to the physical environment and transport? Is accessibility equal to other people? ' Accessibility is a major problem in our society today, but an accessible environment is not a goal that can be achieved overnight, it means consistent and determined action. In part, we see progress both in the built environment, for example, new public buildings have established requirements and are also being tried in the area of public transport, such as rail, I recall the same carrots of Juhani, etc. However, we must bear in mind that ensuring accessibility for people with disabilities does not only mean removing barriers to the use of roads, buildings and means of transport, but also the lack of restrictions on the use of services, access to information and communication, including the use of information and communication technologies and communication systems. Therefore, accessibility requires both tools to compensate for individual operational and functional constraints and to adapt the environment, service provision, means of communication and communication. In society it is too widespread to think that accessibility is a narrow issue for people with disabilities, so we need to be more aware that it benefits all groups of society. During a person's life cycle, there may be a number of situations where an accessible society helps to cope better. As the population ages, the number of people with special needs in Estonia is increasing, so improving accessibility is not only an interest of people with disabilities but also of society in general. As I have been asked how I appreciate access to the physical environment and transport for people with disabilities, I say that it has certainly improved, but we cannot be satisfied with it yet. We cannot be satisfied with the situation here in the Riigikogu either. I remember very well the story of the same wheelchair lift that was on the hump here. This happened after a member of our party needed a wheelchair to access the premises. It wasn't here for years, and I'm saying there's still no easy way to access the Riigikogu. So there are opportunities for development for everyone and there are also opportunities in public buildings. The second question: 'What methods are you planning to improve accessibility for disabled people to the physical environment and transport? " At present, many parties are responsible for accessibility. This shared responsibility makes it difficult to deal with accessibility in a comprehensive way and to shape a society accessible to people with special needs. That is why, under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs, an Accessibility Board of 27 members was set up in March 2015, consisting of representatives of ministries and public authorities, as well as representatives of organisations, universities and non-profit organisations for persons with disabilities. The Council's task is to lead public debates on accessibility and universal design in order to improve society's awareness and to introduce a mindset that takes into account the principles of an inclusive living environment. In addition, improving accessibility is one of the priorities of the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic, which is why a number of accessibility-enhancing activities have been initiated. For example, the Astangu Centre for Vocational Rehabilitation organises a project "Physical adjustment of housing for people with special needs' in 2016. A hundred people's homes will initially be adapted, and a home adaptation programme will open across the country in 2017. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance Secondly, the Astangu Centre for Professional Rehabilitation prepares the concept of sign language translation services, which brings together types of translation, including sign language translation and writing, and makes proposals for the creation and development of services covering the needs of hearing impaired people. The concept is to be completed by the end of March and will be used to develop and test translation services covering the needs of hearing impaired people in the years 2016 to 2020. To this end, too, the European Social Fund has been set up. For example, at the request of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the NGO Accessibility Forum audited the accessibility of the Social Insurance Board's customer service offices and website at the end of 2015, as a result of which it is planned to improve accessibility of the physical environment and the online environment related to the provision of services, as the Social Insurance Board is mainly the office where people with special needs need access and need to communicate. In particular, given that the work capacity reform, which has already entered into force and which is still partially in force, imposes obligations on people with disabilities and special needs, the state must ensure both physical and communicative access for these people. For example, in 2016, we changed the arrangements for applying for aids, so that in the future the Social Insurance Board will organise aids. The aim of the amendment is to ensure better and more uniform access to aid instruments and to meet needs. It is essential to ensure that people with special needs have access to the physical environment. I have been punished here for reforming this system of aids. But let me give you a particular example. Almost 2 000 people have been in the order of the hearing aid since 2013, because the system did not provide flexible and accessible funding and these people had not received a hearing aid, but today, a few months after the entry into force of this reform, it is at least possible for the state to provide them with a hearing aid on a daily basis. At the moment, it is simply because aid companies are not able to deliver hearing aids so quickly, but this problem can be solved by them. I would like to say that this, too, means allowing access to these people, namely to allow normal access to information. So the reforms and the actions that the country is doing are actually quite a lot, but we have not reached the point of being satisfied. This process will definitely continue. The construction of this new super ministry building, which is now a plan and where several ministries are put together, is also a plan, as far as I know, that physical accessibility must be guaranteed in the part where the Ministry of Social Affairs is located. I think that is not enough, in fact, access must be guaranteed everywhere, because we have also decided here in the Riigikogu that we must create a job for a thousand people with special needs in the public sector. Accessibility is also important here. So there's still room for improvement, but there's plenty of action to show for it. Question 3: How do you assess the cooperation between the supervisory body and the government in order to protect the rights of persons with disabilities? Can the obligations entered into by the Convention on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities be ensured in cooperation between them? ' Promoting the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities is not only the task of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but it means close cooperation between ministries, the mechanism for monitoring the Convention and civil society organisations, in particular cooperation with people with disabilities and their representative organisations. The Commissioner's opinions and conclusions on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities are important to the Ministry of Social Affairs. As far as we can, we're counting on them. I hope that our cooperation will be very fruitful. The question is whether we can implement all this quickly, but we must ensure that the rights of people with disabilities are protected in Estonia. Question 4: "Do you think that the rights of disabled people in Estonia are protected at the same level as other people? 'It must be said that the rights of persons with disabilities are currently not protected at the same level as those of others. A good example of this is the problem of accessibility. However, by ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we have committed ourselves to achieving the full exercise of these rights gradually within the limits of the national resources available. According to § 28 of the Constitution, persons with disabilities are under the special care of the state and local authorities. If we look at the current legal space, we can see that important steps have been taken, including the ratification of the Convention, which we are trying to ensure a legal environment in which the rights of persons with disabilities are protected at the same level as those of other people. The principles of equal treatment and taking into account the specificities of people with special needs are part of legislation that all ministries are obliged to monitor within their respective spheres of government and cooperate with other authorities and organisations in promoting these principles. In order to achieve this objective, short- and long-term developments in the area of promoting the rights of persons with disabilities and specific activities have been formulated in the draft Social Security, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Development Plan prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs for the coming years. The overarching principle of the development plan is that equal rights and equal treatment of people with disabilities must be guaranteed and the special needs of people taken into account. This development plan has not yet been adopted, work on it. In this work, we will definitely involve organisations for people with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U143	Minister, thank you. You have a question. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. From 1 July last year, the Construction Act came into force, replacing the Building Act previously in force. Under the Building Act, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications adopted a regulation in 2002 which laid down very precisely the accessibility requirements for buildings and facilities for persons with visual, motion and hearing impairments. The Regulation on accessibility for the new Code has not been adopted; it has not yet been adopted. Soon it will be from the entry into force of the construction code of the year, which means that designers, builders and customers have been put in a difficult position. As Minister responsible for implementing the provisions of the Convention, what are you planning to do to ensure that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications takes these steps and also gives this regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U145	Thank you, good questioner! There have been repeated discussions on this subject, and the organisations concerned have drawn attention to this. The Ministry has also communicated its observations and demands. More specifically, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications must now be asked to ask for these regulations to be adopted, because new houses are constantly being built and implementing acts are clearly needed to achieve the objectives of this convention. This is a subject on which we need to be persistently observant.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U146	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U147	Good fellows! Now it is, you can say, the time we've all been waiting for. I would ask you all to register for your speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. The free microphone's open. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U148	Mr President of the sitting! I will continue my series of Riigikogu work. Last time I addressed the question of how the drafts are distributed in the Riigikogu among the leading committees. My main point was that rarely is the draft that falls entirely within the remit of a single Commission. More frequently, the draft contains a number of Commission issues. The conclusion was that since the committees usually do not deal with the so-called foreign draft as a whole or its individual parts, it seems that one reason why there is so much to complain about the laws adopted by the Riigikogu is probably that the quality of the parts that should be in the proceedings of other committees is worse than the parts that are being dealt with in the main committee. Is that always the case, there has been no numerical study of it. But in any case, I believe that this problem exists. I will go from here to the question of how the preparation of the draft for the first reading starts in the Commission. At first reading, the Riigikogu should, in principle, seek an answer to two questions. Firstly, whether such a legislative amendment or a new law is needed at all. Secondly, whether the proposed draft is suitable for the underlying paper of such work. I've been in the Riigikogu for another year now. When I think about what I remember about the VII, VIII and IX Riigikogu, the preparation of the first reading at the time and now it is different like night and day. I do not know whether it was always the same everywhere, but in the committees I had the opportunity to enter, the preparation of the draft usually started earlier on the fact that the proviso counsellor gave an overview of the history of the problem, including how the law was formed at the beginning of the Riigikogu and what changes had been made later. To that end, he worked through the archive material. He then sought an answer to the question of how the same question was regulated in pre-war Estonia. After the restoration of independence in the compositions of the Riigikogu, this was quite an important question; at the moment it may not be so important. In general, the advisor was also obliged to provide an overview of the situation and solutions in our neighbouring countries. In my current composition, I have been exposed to work in three committees. None of them have the idea that an advisor should do this kind of work, as I have just described to you. No one has even come up with such an idea. If the other Commission also addresses these aspects, it would be interesting to find out what this practice is. In principle, another aspect should be added to the advisor's preparatory work. The authors of the draft draft come to the first reading committee, often when it comes to the government's draft, come from a number of different ministries, and their main message is still to praise their own work, why it is necessary and why it is so good. In principle, a senior advisor should also, in some form, make a reasonable amount of criticism of the authors' self-expression. Furthermore, it should provide an answer to the question, which is perhaps the most important question, how would it be if we lived on without the proposed change, whether this change or the innovations proposed in the law are really essential? I'm done for today. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-21_U149	Thank you! There's no more calls. So let's close the free microphone. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 6.08 p.m.
