ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the fifth working week of the 4th plenary session. Who wants to hand over drafts and inquiries? Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U2	Mr President! Good Riigikogu! I have the honour to hand over the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which proposes to change the procedure for paying outpatient special medical care visits and to exempt disabled children from the visit fee. Currently, the law prohibits you from charging a visit fee if the service is provided to a child under 2 years of age, a pregnant woman and if the patient is transferred to inpatient care immediately after an outpatient visit. According to the law, the request for a visit fee is generally left to the service provider to decide to whom and to what extent the exemption is granted. Health care providers have approached the subject differently. This means that they have set different travel charges for the target groups, such as children and the elderly, the rates, as well as for certain periods of time. For example, in case of repeated visits, the visit fee must be paid once every three months. Tallinn City Government pays visit fees to hospitals belonging to Tallinn; Tartu City Government pays for the children of the city of Tartu. At the same time, Ida-Virumaa Ida-Viru Central Hospital charges 1.50 and 2.50 in Narva. Sometimes a visit fee is charged on the basis of a diagnosis, but sometimes it is released on the basis of a disability. Our proposal is also to exempt children over the age of 2 who have been sentenced to disability because they need more services than their peers and it is certainly more difficult to cope with the socio-economic situation of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U3	Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Have a good week at work. On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I present an inquiry to Mr Ligi, Minister of Foreign Affairs. The topic is 'Organisation of the Eastern Partnership Summit in Estonia'. The Eastern Partnership Programme of the European Union, adopted on 26 May 2008 at the General Affairs and External Relations Council of the European Union, has consistently contributed to the development and strengthening of links between the Member States of the European Union and Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine and Belarus. As the presidencies of the European Union, the summits of the Eastern Partnership have been organised successfully by the Czech Republic, Poland, Latvia and Lithuania. The next summit is scheduled to take place in the second half of 2017 under the Estonian Presidency. Unfortunately, information has been received that Estonia's interest is not to organise a meeting in Tallinn, but in Brussels. This step would weaken Estonia's authority at a time when the security environment in Europe is more intense than ever after World War II. In this context, we are putting four questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. First of all, where does Estonia intend to organise the summit in the second half of 2017, either in Tallinn or Brussels? Secondly, what are the possible arguments in favour of Brussels? Thirdly, by what time will a decision be made? Fourthly, how does Jürgen Ligi, as Foreign Minister, assess the need to hold a summit in Estonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U6	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to refer an inquiry on behalf of 22 members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Sven Sester. This concerns the comparison of Estonian excise policy with that of neighbouring countries. Next year the excise rate of motor fuel in Estonia will increase by 10%, the excise rate of gas by 20%, the excise rate of alcohol by 10% and the excise rate of tobacco by 8%. This is already a normal increase in excise duty s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s Excise policy can carry two ideas. One is the fiscal objective and the other is the desire to limit consumption. In Estonia, however, the government seems to focus only on how to fill budget gaps. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas admitted already in spring 2015, when he commented on the increase in excise duties on fuel, that if, in a few years' time, it turns out that Latvia has not increased excise duties on fuel, then there must be an opportunity to review Estonia's excise policy and consider whether we have alternative sources of cover. The purpose of raising excise duties on fuel is to make clear money. Tax theory also allows the collection of excise duties to be justified by the need to collect money to cover expenditure arising from the consumption of taxable goods. For example, we had a time when the money from the fuel excise went on the roads, but unfortunately, it is now decoupled from the financing of roads. Certainly, excise policy must go hand in hand with the excise policy of our neighbours, but we are facing a situation where our excise duties are significantly higher than in Latvia. Consequently, we have four questions for the Minister of Finance. In particular, they concern the additional work carried out by the Tax and Customs Board in relation to the fact that our excise duties differ from those of Latvia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U7	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U8	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Water Act. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U9	I have adopted two draft laws that will be processed under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, as well as two inquiries. If they comply with the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will pass them on to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance. Incoming check, please! 88 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Confirmation of the week's agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 5th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, against 1, with 1 abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U10	Inquiries. The first of these is Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõm, Külliki Kübarsepp, Kirsta Aru, Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik and Jüri Adams. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U11	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Indeed, on 15 June, seven members of the Free Party Group have submitted an inquiry to the Prime Minister to increase the competitiveness of the Estonian business environment. Perhaps it is remembered that when we processed the state budget for this year last autumn, the growth forecast...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U12	I'm sorry, Andres Herkel! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Whoever has things to do with each other, maybe you'll do it outside the plenary room. I'd be very grateful to you, and Andres Herkel too. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U13	I too am very grateful for the attention given to improving the competitiveness of the business environment. So this year's growth forecast was 2.6% a year ago. It has been repeatedly pulled down, and the latest forecast shows 1.3% less. There are major problems involved, and that is why we have been asking questions. There are all kinds of projects in the government. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, together with four ministers, has launched a zero bureaucracy project to reduce administrative burdens; the Ministry of Justice has completed a report to boost the competitiveness of the Estonian business environment. There are a number of beautiful proposals in the letter that we need flexible working relationships, a modern tax environment, an optimal administrative burden and a legal environment supporting entrepreneurship. What we do not see, however, is real government action based on these plans and reports. In addition to other proposals, the need to introduce a social tax ceiling and to revise the minimum social tax rate has been highlighted. On both subjects, the Free Party has previously submitted a bill, but the coalition did not let them pass. Let me be clear, one was to propose to the Government of the Republic and the other was a bill. We came up with a question about what's really going on. What is being done to make the labour market more flexible and to allow more part-time work, for example. In response to the inquiry, the Governor of Eesti Pank has also drawn attention to this need here in front of us. I would draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that in the summer there was one debate between the political party presidents, where Taavi Rõivas did not participate, but the chairman of your government partners, both the IRL and the Social Democrats, felt that the abolition of the minimum social tax rate would be an appropriate step to introduce more flexible relations on the labour market. For both of them, we will now ask the honourable Prime Minister. We also have a number of other issues, from the abolition of driving journals to the implementation of zero bureaucracy and from making real constructive conclusions and proposals at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U14	Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas will answer the question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! I will respond to your inquiry on 15 June about increasing the competitiveness of the Estonian business environment. I will begin by thanking my answer for calling the proposals prepared by the government beautiful. I think this is a beautiful start, and if there are beautiful proposals, there is probably reason to hope that not only members of the political parties in the government coalition, but also members of the Free Party can support them in Parliament in the form of drafts. But let's get to the questions. Your first question: 'What are the reasons for the negative position of the Government of the Republic on the introduction of a social tax ceiling? How do you explain this position in the light of the Justice Department's report? ' Let it be said that attracting good competitiveness and investment in the Estonian tax environment here is one of the clear priorities of the government. That is why we have taken a specific direction towards reducing labour taxes, including lowering the social tax rate, raising the tax-free minimum, applying income tax refunds to people with lower incomes. All of these are important criteria for choosing the location of a company, in addition to the stability of the economic environment and the availability of a skilled workforce. And we have not forgotten at all the report by the Ministry of Justice, which was already in the government debate in May. A number of issues are already being dealt with at ministerial level. We will certainly come back to the proposals of the report in the near future, including when the economic development working group of the best experts in Estonia, which I convened a year ago, has finished its work. It will then be possible to address these issues together as a whole. I fully agree that the introduction of a social tax ceiling can and must be discussed, but it should also be done in the light of possible sources of coverage. I very much agree to lower taxes on labour and why not impose social taxes on the ceiling, but the cover could come first and foremost from the taxation of harmful consumption, precisely from the same taxation of alcohol and tobacco, to which Kadri Simson, the leader of the opposition's largest force, or the Central Party Group, so eagerly fought back. If you ask me whether Estonia should rather lower taxes on labour and compensate it with higher taxation on harmful consumption, I am certainly in agreement with that. I hope that the Free Party will also consider whether to tax more, for example, smoking and alcohol instead of taxing people's labour, for example. Looking at the experiences of our immediate neighbours, we do not see any clear evidence that an increase in additional high-wage jobs will be covered by the deficit, whatever the budget may want. We have studied Scandinavian experiences; there are mostly preferences with a more precise aim, not for anyone who earns more than a certain limit. There, for example, benefits are targeted at the newly arrived high-wage labour force, on the basis of specific criteria. The logic is that people who do not need health insurance or pension in that country would have a somewhat more favourable tax environment. However, Latvia's wage statistics turn out to be an interesting thing. In the years following the introduction of the ceiling, high-wage jobs did not increase, on the contrary, their number fell by 2%. So there's something to follow in the discussion. And I am absolutely not avoiding or excluding discussion. We need to assess the effects very accurately and find sources of coverage for all effects. Of course, as a society, we should move faster towards a technology- and research-intensive economic model. The second question: 'If you have not considered it possible to introduce a social tax ceiling, what other measures will your government intend to take to create high-paid jobs in Estonia? ' Let it be said that according to international estimates, the Estonian tax system has last been assessed independently by Tax Foundation 1 in the world, which is perhaps the best in the most successful OECD countries today. Now we need to make sure that in the future we do not create tax incentives for the economy that could hold on to economic growth. So you can always do even better, even in Estonia, where there is the best tax system in the world, not only in my opinion, but also in the opinion of the International Research Agency. Productivity is the source of long-term economic growth. If we are designing our tax policy, then we need to look at the factors that have a positive impact on this productivity. And we also need to consider that a number of non-tax factors, such as human capital, i.e. people's education, skills and experience, are also important for making technology and knowledge-intensive. It is precisely for this reason that we have raised teachers' wages at an early pace to value education and human capital, and we have increased our investment in R &amp; D. This percentage is moving step by step towards the target we set. If we have a strong and competitive education and research system, of course it will also attract highly qualified people to Estonia. So you definitely have to look at the wider picture. There are many steps that the government has to take in its work or in its preparation. In addition, it is very important to ensure that Estonia's infrastructure is at the best possible level. It is very important that we not only have good road connections, but also a proper rail link, including with Western and Southern Europe. If we look at how much of our trade is on the east side and compare it with the trade we have with Western European countries, the value of goods going to Western European countries is many times higher. But we still only have proper rail connections in the east, and I think it needs to be changed as a matter of urgency so that we also have a proper connection with Western and Central Europe. We also invest in the Tallinn European School. This is also foreseen in next year's budget in order to provide more incentives for international workers to come to work in Estonia. Often, they want to come with their family, and in order to come with their family, they also need high - quality education in English. The third question: 'How do you feel about the proposal to introduce a minimum rate of social tax, thereby boosting more flexible employment and part-time work? ' I expect you have been thinking about abolishing the minimum social tax rate, not imposing it, on your question. But I would like to begin by saying that the labour market and labour relations must be flexible. The flexible labour market in Estonia has helped the economy to adapt to the circumstances on several occasions and we must, in any case, maintain this quality of the economy. Estonia certainly has room to involve more people in the labour market with part-time work. The work capacity reform launched brings people into the labour market who are unable to work full-time. But one thing that certainly needs to be assessed in relation to this more flexible minimum rate and very seriously assessed is the risk of tax fraud. We must take into account that there is now a clear rule that if a person works, his minimum wage will be EUR 430 per month this year, and that this minimum rate will also have to pay social tax. It will be possible to receive both health insurance and all other benefits of social tax, including pension insurance. This threshold has been necessary in order to avoid a situation where some people are either receiving too little income, if it is more than enough, or if it is tempted not to pay wages at all, if it is not actually losing anything in substance by paying it as a business income. The logic behind the minimum social tax rate is that it also guarantees health insurance for people. I am saying that solidarity insurance is actually worth much more than the taxes that have to be paid every month. But, of course, we can discuss it. As a principle, I think that proposals have been made under the direction of the Ministry of Justice to ensure that there can be more flexible forms of work in Estonia, right. And we have already made the minimum social tax rate considerably more flexible. I too, as Minister of Social Affairs, made it clear that, if, for example, in the creative industries, people do not earn monthly income, but at intervals, it can be aggregated over months and years. So concrete steps have already been taken here. Question 4: 'When will a special incentive tax be abolished for the reimbursement of transport costs and health and sports costs? ' At the end of September, the Government of the Republic approved the Minister of Finance's proposal not to tax as a special advantage the costs of promoting the health of certain workers and to exempt from social tax the compensation paid for the second and third sick days of workers, which has so far been taxed as remuneration. This bill has already been submitted to the Riigikogu for processing. The employer's costs of transporting workers between the place of residence and the place of work, where it is not possible to pass this journey by public transport at a reasonable time or at a reasonable cost of money, are not considered as a special advantage under the Income Tax Act already in force. So two good news, I hope you appreciate them very much. Question 5: "When will the requirement for driving diaries be abolished? ' This is where the good news continues. In particular, the government office discussed possible tax changes to the private use of the company's passenger cars in July of this year and decided, among other things, to abolish the requirement to keep logbooks. Further analysis is also required by the concept of proof of use for work and professional travel. As the amendment concerns many taxpayers, the Ministry of Finance also wishes to involve business organisations in the drafting process and to take account of possible different bottlenecks. Better yet, if they can be prevented. As a result, it is a little early to say the deadline, but we can say that the work is underway and that Minister of Finance Sven Sester is carrying this process. Question 6: 'What steps is the government planning to implement other proposals in the report to increase Estonia's competitiveness? ' As I have already said, we will carry out a review of the proposals in the report when the proposals of the economic development working group, or experts, come to the table. However, there are already examples of what has been done or what has been done: for example, simplifying business procedures and reducing administrative burdens. The use of more e-solutions should be a key tool for communicating with the country and improving the efficiency of business processes, as well as one proposal for less bureaucracy, introducing more business-friendly public procurement, etc. So quite a few things have been in work for months and some innovations have already been introduced into Parliament's procedure in the form of a draft. Question 7: 'What specific outputs has the zero bureaucracy project reached? To what extent has the administrative burden on businesses been reduced, to avoid parallel reporting to different authorities? ' The zero bureaucracy project is part of the state reform and 252 proposals for cutting red tape organised among entrepreneurs last autumn were made. Ministries, along with businesses, have decided to abolish 164 bureaucratic requirements over the next few years. In the future, therefore, 164 specific tasks will be taken away from businesses! In addition to gaining rapid victories, I consider the investments we are currently making to carry out innovative projects with great impact and in international competition to be important. It is important to understand that many proposals need legislative changes to be properly implemented, as well as IT solutions. For example, a large part of the tax proposals can be resolved by the development of the new 'Tax Administration 2020', according to which the most courageous solution is the state not to control the tax accounts declared, but to carry out this work for the taxpayer itself. A large part of the proposals on statistical reporting will be implemented on the basis of the report 3.0 project. In this respect, cooperation with economic development software manufacturers is needed in order to enable the necessary data for the state to move automatically. These impact assessments should be completed as early as next year. And there are a number of other ideas, but since my time is about to run out, I hope that I can talk about them with regard to the following questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U16	Questions for the Prime Minister. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U17	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! I'll come back to the social security charge. You referred to Latvia and Sweden, saying that you do not know whether this will work. But tell us a little bit more about it. The world is not just about Latvia and Sweden and about the dance around the ceiling of social tax. What about the rest of the world? What results has this produced, positive or negative?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U18	Thank you. In most countries, there is no dance around this theme at all. But when it comes to tax policy in general, interestingly, labour taxes are still very strongly affected by the correlation that the lower the taxes on labour, the better it is for the economy to develop. And if you look at a slightly longer period and take out these one-off effects, you can clearly see that lower labour taxes are much better than high taxes as a basis for strong growth. As a general principle, this correlation is certainly valid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U19	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I particularly thank you for the answers to the fourth and fifth questions. In the meantime, the government has been working. But I am much less satisfied with the vague answers to all the preceding questions about the ceiling and the floor. According to your calculations, this cover is necessary to compensate for the loss of the minimum social tax. Have we also taken into account the opportunities that part-time work offers for some and others? Do you even bring them into employment, legitimize their small employment relationship, especially in rural areas? This should actually boost employment. Or is it that what is being done, as bureaucracy seems to be easier, is not changing anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U21	Thank you. Interestingly, the main problem in reality is not how much money is not collected, but that we do not really want people in Estonia to earn less in part-time or full-time working every month than there is a minimum wage. It is very difficult to cope with less than the minimum wage. That is why we have rather made an effort to ensure that all people earn at least a minimum wage, or even significantly more. If we look at wage trends in Estonia as a whole, it is a pleasure to say that not only has the minimum wage increased very quickly from year to year, but wages have increased at all. Unemployment has also decreased significantly, also in 2016, although the forecast was much more pessimistic. It is interesting to know that a large proportion of these people, already about a quarter of those who have registered as unemployed, have a total of 4.1% of the working-age population of Estonia. If we compare these data, it can be concluded that unemployment in Estonia has actually fallen even faster than this percentage alone could be said. Rather, the question is whether we really want the people of Estonia to earn below the minimum wage. I don't think that's a good plan. However, what has been done to encourage flexible forms of work is that if people do not receive regular monthly incomes but receive some amount, for example, over a month or once every six months, then the total accounts can be applied. We have already made this change in the previous government, and this has helped to put these people's health insurance and pension issues right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U22	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U23	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister! I will continue with the subject developed in the previous question and in the answer. In recent years, I think all employers' organisations have suggested that some form of tax relief could be applied to employers who employ minors. What does your government have to say about this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U24	Thank you. Hiring minors, especially during the summer period, is an issue that needs to be addressed and which has also been included in these proposals. I would not be surprised if such a proposal is also made by the working group on economic development that I have convened, because they also focus on how many people we have in employment as a focus. We understand that demographic processes are playing against us, so that in any case getting people into employment is positive. Having worked more or less in all summers and appreciating this experience very highly, I am convinced that it must be provided both in fiscal policy and in terms of the rules of employment contracts in such a way that everyone is as favorable as possible to the parties. I do not know whether the main problem so far is tax policy, which needs to be considered. But quite certainly some of the working and rest requirements and restrictions on minors are too harsh. One might consider simplifying them and helping children to get their first summer internships. I think that makes sense as a principle. As far as I am concerned, we do not have specific tax proposals on the table, but I think that sooner or later we will reach them too. Then it should also be discussed that, since children have health insurance anyway, whether or not the share of health insurance should be doubled from the entrepreneur. All of this can be discussed. But it seems to me that the main problem now is not so much the tax rates for hiring minors into temporary employment, but that there are very strict rules that children are not allowed to do very many things. These restrictions could be reviewed with common sense. I remember when the Member was the current Commissioner for Equality during the previous term, we had a very interesting debate on the subject with him in the Committee on European Union Affairs. He also strongly supported the fact that he should still be able to gain more work experience for children.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U25	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you a more philosophical question, but when you answered Andres Herkel's question, you made a mess of me. And that's why I have to ask now, based on your answer to Andres Herkel. You said when you said we didn't want people earning less than the minimum wage. Who are these 'we', and where is it said in such a definite way? Secondly, I would like to say right now that many retired teachers and cultural workers would be happy to work two or three hours a day, but the employer does not want to apply them that way because of this minimum social tax. Should we not, however, review the whole system in a comprehensive manner?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U27	Thank you. The best I can do is speak for myself. I really think that the minimum wage is in place so that people do not have to earn less than that amount. This isn't some government-loaded number. This is an agreement between employers and employees, which sets a minimum of which no one should earn less. This is the general principle of minimum wage. And the minimum social tax rate in Estonia is directly linked to the minimum wage. It's not a number taken from the ceiling. The minimum social tax rate is not just a number in itself, it is something that helps people to get health insurance, which helps people to get retirement. This isn't exactly a random thing. By the way, such an interesting fact that while we are having an exciting conversation with you here, someone good in your group has already sent out a press release that you are not at all satisfied with the government's actions on these issues and that you want to distrust the government. All right! However, I would have waited for the answers to the question, in pure courtesy, then perhaps it would have looked a little more accurate. Right now, this press release, which I think was written when you were still waiting for answers, seems a little hasty. But that's just my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U28	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U29	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! You talked a lot about competitiveness and also about a flexible approach to pay and other things. The opposite example of this approach is the Estonian maritime sector, where due to the lack of competitiveness, the last merchant ship has left the register and sailors are also leaving the register, as labour tax systems in neighbouring countries are better. It is due to inflexibility and a lack of competitiveness that we are losing very high tax revenues. Can you tell us whether there will be any major changes in the Estonian maritime sector, including making the entire tax system more flexible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U30	Thank you. Yes, it has been discussed in ministerial cooperation that, for example, a different social tax regime could apply to ships that are not sailing here on the coast, but sailing in the oceans and away from ports for the lion's share of the year. There is a certain logic in this, as people who spend most of the year at sea do not at the same time consume Estonian health insurance services. If this system is changed, there should be a balance between payments and services. It can therefore be said that these problems have been discussed and that the Maritime Administration and the Tax Administration have also been involved in the debate. This is an issue which I also believe needs to be resolved. Indeed, the current tax environment for long-distance passenger ships is not favourable; it does not attract ships under the Estonian flag. What else could be considered in the case of long-distance craft is to combine this topic with Estonia's completely unique e-residency. The companies owned by these ships could be managed as registered in Estonia from any country in the world, being themselves an e-resident. We know that shipping is in many ways a global business and major shipowners are located outside our area. If you take the largest shipowners on a global scale, if they can register and manage their ship and company in Estonia using e-residency and electronic channels, and if, in addition, our tax environment is attractive, you will find it attractive. Such an offer could be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U31	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U32	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I wasn't satisfied with your answer on an hour's salary. Do you share my suspicion that the Reform Party is afraid at all to discuss a wider review of the tax system, because direct taxes, for example, social tax, provide the Circa 45%, while I believe that if there is an hourly wage system, there will also be some minimum fees required. It is as if we feel that the Estonian state has recently been stuck, even in the search for e-solutions. If you are told in today's institution that we cannot send out an e-mail because we do not have a custom, but we send out a registered letter, then why does the government also say that we cannot discuss the tax system because we do not have a custom?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U33	Thank you. I fully understand why you cannot be satisfied with my answer to your question about your hourly salary. That is why I would like to point out that you have not asked any questions about your hourly salary. And, of course, if you don't ask the question, the answer cannot be satisfied. That's one. Second of all, it's about getting stuck. If there's anything going on here, it's the mind of critics. In my opinion, e-solutions in very different areas in Estonia are much better every year. I say that there are no such good e-solutions anywhere in the world as in Estonia. And I refuse to believe that there is a state institution in Estonia that cannot send us. But if there really is a state institution like this, email me this particular example, and we'll look at it. Since 2000 there has been interinstitutional affairs in Estonia, mainly by means of electronic channels, and in 2016 we are actually talking about bigger things. What we are talking about is that we are now preparing electronic solutions so that businesses do not have to report at all. Nowhere in the world are real-time economic solutions as far away from work as they are in Estonia. Similarly, I think that a very progressive phenomenon is one of the initiatives of the Riigikogu, which the government very much supports: instead of rejecting collaborative economy companies from the Estonian market, we offer them an information technology solution to ensure that taxes are collected correctly in the collaborative economy. I say this, too, is an absolute world of excellence as an e-solution. So I find it ridiculous to talk about getting stuck. The main thing that is stuck here is the thinking world of critics, not the state of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U34	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! You said we were on top of the world. It's all right. But have you not thought that the rest of the world does not even want to climb to the top? Is this totalitarian control and totalitarian supervision of non-cash settlement, cash loss, only plastic money, not complete distrust of your citizen and your businessmen?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U36	Thank you. On the contrary. It is certainly in the interests of businesses that we offer companies the opportunity not to engage in reporting to the state, but to make it automatic if they so wish. I am thinking, above all, of micro-enterprises. Take hairdressers, for example, bakers. If we look at the interests of these companies, believe me, it is probably their main interest to be good at cutting hair or baking bakery products. Their specialty may not be accounting. For them, accounting, reporting to the state can be a very annoying additional obligation. If we can take away this additional obligation and, at the same time, ensure that they pay taxes honestly, I think this is a mutual interest. Estonian tax rates have been deliberately designed to make it easier for everyone to pay taxes than to deceive the country. I have to say that there has been a very, very big leap forward in cooperation between the tax administration and businesses over the last few years. In 2014, there was a great deal of criticism about declaring 1000 euro invoices, but the result was that the Estonian VAT hole decreased more than any other country in international comparison. Estonia increased by several places in international comparison. This means, in other words, firstly, that 100 million euros more was received in our budget without raising any tax rates, I would point out, and 100 million euros is very large money in the Estonian state budget. Secondly, all companies now know that the competitor also pays taxes fairly. And we need not only to initiate excellent digital solutions and initiatives to simplify reporting. Sometimes it is just a matter of giving credit to economic operators when they pay their taxes honestly. That is why last year, on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce, I launched a business thank-you event at the Stenbock House. There 100 of the largest Estonian taxpayers receive a letter of thanks and the largest taxpayers from different counties are separately invited. In my opinion, it is very important that the state not only taxes operators but also recognises them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U37	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U38	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Honorable Prime Minister! I want to comfort you first: the quality of the answers given to your inquiry and your mistrust have nothing to do with each other. The intention to join the distrustful has matured over a long period of time, and the reasons for this, I hope, Mr Herkel will soon tell us more. I only want to argue with you on one thing and draw your attention to the fact that, in my opinion, very many people in Estonia are not satisfied with the endless self-respect of the current government, saying that everything is best. On Friday, Olari Taal, an entrepreneur with liberal views, said that there was no area in Estonia where nothing better could be done. This could be the government's approach to life in Estonia, not self-confidence. A week ago, however, it was a pleasure to learn from one of the answers to the inquiry that you are a lecturer, alongside your work, and that you lecture the students on taxation, among other things. As Maris Lauri, Minister of Education and Science recently said, lifelong learning could be a lasting motive for life in Estonia. I think you too could improve your knowledge of the tax field and of the different ideas born in the heads of Estonian economists to modernise and refine the Estonian tax system. You might want to meet them. One good, simple and convenient opportunity is to look up the presentations at the tax conference organised by the Free Party this spring, where Siim Kallas, Jaan Pillesaar, Heido Vitsur, Ardo Ojasalu and many others gave an excellent lecture and ideas. A summary of these ideas could be that the current Estonian tax system, which you are so proud of, is also proud of because it is very simple, unfortunately inflexible. In one of his presentations, Ardo Ojasalu has, in my opinion, formulated this problem very accurately. He's said a simple tax system is like a good tree-breaking axe. The trees get broken, the room gets warm, but the finer wood carving work doesn't do it, the ballroom parquet doesn't put that axe in it. It is precisely this fine-tuning of the tax system, the constant improvement is actually lacking and it is indeed a pure pleasure to hear from you that the economic development working group is working and from there will soon come well-considered ideas. A week ago, Minister Oviir also promised that a comprehensive analysis of the tax system would come. But we are a little impatient waiting for these results, and I wonder whether, before the 2015 elections, the Reform Party really did not have thoughtful ideas about what the Estonian tax system needs. There was only one sentence that we wanted to lower taxes on labour. It's obviously not enough on its own. You have stressed that it is your desire to tax harmful consumption. Right, but everything has a reasonable rate. The Free Party does not want the increase in border trade and smuggling, and I would remind you that the reasonable rate proposed by the Ministry of Finance officials last spring was to increase these excise duties by 5% per year. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U39	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U40	There have been proposals that the obligation to pay social tax could be shared between the employer and the employee. This idea, which has been sounding in itself for years, also has an important nuance that you should like, given your favorite subject, or health behavior. If this obligation is shared between the employer and the employee, it is possible to take into account the risks of the working environment in the employer's case, and in the case of the employee, its own risk behaviour and its own contribution to maintaining its own health. But our tax system can still be reformed in many ways. Different economists have indicated that our tax base is narrow, we are talking only about the taxation of work and consumption. The share of capital taxes is close to zero in Estonia; they are not exactly. Land tax has long expired from its system and could consider replacing it with property tax, as well as almost no local taxes. The government has spoken of the need to increase the entrepreneurial motivation of local governments, but has not provided any ideas on how to do so. Taxation of business income can now be postponed almost indefinitely in Estonia. It is possible to transfer capital abroad exempt from tax. You know all these problems. So this much-hungry simple tax system may not be the fairest, entrepreneurial, regional, somehow regulated by economic sectors. This could be a flexible tool to turn the Estonian economy into new growth and to make Estonian entrepreneurship more competitive. It was a pleasure to hear from you and to read the sentence of today's Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that you support the exemption of highly paid qualified foreign workers from social tax. But, I'm sorry, where's the bill? We've been here for a year and a half together, it doesn't look like we've had this bill, even though the problem has long been acknowledged. The ceiling and floor of social tax have perhaps been discussed exhaustively today, but I would like to conclude by drawing attention to an in-depth article published today in Äripäev, where several renowned entrepreneurs support the setting of social tax charges. For example, Priit Alamäe says that if the government does not fully believe in this idea yet, we will try this solution for five years and see what its impact on tax revenue will be. If it turns out that the step was going completely the wrong way, then a new decision can be made. So more courage at risk, more willingness to innovate, I would like to wish to the honourable Prime Minister and his government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U41	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U42	Mr. Chairman! Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! First of all, as I said earlier, we have reason to thank you for at least two of the responses which, in the meantime, have been covered by a specific and clear decision of the Government following an inquiry. But it doesn't take away the impression that you're living in some kind of ideal world. And the part of this ideal world seems to be that all people should at least get a minimum wage. This is great and it would be necessary, but you are overlooking the fact that some people do not work at all, some people are not able to work more than a few hours a day or even a week, and some people are illegally doing their little jobs, because their employer is either unable to pay the minimum social tax or does not want to do so. It's probably hard to come out of this ideal world if you're in the news stream when you answer the question. You've linked the answer to this question and the question whether we're going along with mistrusting your government. But these are a little different things. It does not depend on today's answers. But since you have already raised this issue, I have decided to come here and mark these matters briefly. One thing that actually ties in with the question of questioning, but which was not directly mentioned here, is the infamous increase in excise duty and the handing over of the competitive advantage to Latvia. However, it seems to me that the government does not have a sound fiscal and economic policy at all. This is where the trouble starts. Another very important issue relates to the ongoing administrative reform. You promised us further legislative proposals in the spring. Where are they? How does this whole thing work now? How will the question of allocating tasks to the income base be resolved? There are so many loose ends! And there have also been some very serious problems over the summer that concern the sustainability of the health insurance fund and the pension system. We do not see the government developing long-term sustainable solutions to eradicate them. Finally, no steps have been taken to reinvigorate political competition. It is difficult for the Free Party to support a government which, over a year and a half, has not dealt with reducing the funding of political parties from the state budget, which is disproportionately high, and which continues to pursue this course of division of posts according to political affiliation. The last most unfortunate example of this is the appointment of an Estonian representative to the European Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U43	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U44	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't going to speak at all, but I had a nuance I wanted to say a few words about. This nuance relates to the bureaucracy of our country, to the increasingly vigorous, deepening bureaucracy of our country, which actually kills entrepreneurship, kills entrepreneurship, especially smaller entrepreneurship, micro-business, and which is why we give up competitive advantages to those who are ahead of us either for historical reasons or because of their geographical situation or for some other reason. I often recall the picture of Pieter Brueghel, 'The big fish eat small fish', but this is also true in the field of competition. We are a small fish, and if we continue in the same spirit of bureaucracy as we have become the norm in the last ten years, believe me, despite our e-governance and despite our small size and perhaps because of this somewhat more flexibility, our competitiveness will not actually improve. This line was now the inclusion of a small brush pull on the subject of questioning, and I do not want to link it in any way to wider political issues, such as the Court of Auditors and the publication of censure. I don't think they concern the content of this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U45	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U46	Good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! I have a couple of observations on what's in my ear. Unfortunately, you did not answer the question of whether the Reform Party is ready for dialogue on changes to the tax system. Yes, I understand that your roots are in this system and it is very difficult to give up, but really, our people are looking for motivation to be entrepreneurial, and also motivation to live in the Republic of Estonia and stay here. I come back to my hourly salary, which was the subject of Question 3. This is very important for businesses that have part-time jobs. This is particularly true of rural areas. This is very important for young people, as well as mothers of young children, who would like to start working again. There are a number of people who would like to work on multiple sites or multiple jobs on a flexible schedule. This would provide a great deal of opportunities, and entrepreneurs themselves are very well disposed in this regard, especially in rural areas. We need flexibility! We are a country with a simple tax system, but at the same time we are very inflexible. Speaking to rural entrepreneurs, it turns out that they also lack dialogue with the government. It seems that the government has selected certain companies with which they negotiate. But there are also small and medium-sized enterprises that would like to have the same dialogue. Your answers revealed huge distrust of entrepreneurs on many occasions, the fear that if we change something, it will certainly provide a basis for fraud. Yes, we must admit that there are fraudsters in our country. But the problem is also that those who pay taxes honestly sense injustice because the state is unable to identify major tax fraudsters. The State does not have sufficient resources at the level of the PBA or at the level of the prosecutor's office to detect and prove tax fraud. Moreover, it is now established that only from EUR 40000 will the procedure be carried out at all. Businesses also sense that the state does not protect them from tankers. Is this one of the consequences of an e-state that we can start businesses quickly and very quickly, but ultimately the responsibility disappears? Where's the protection from that? Trust in an entrepreneur should not, in my view, be merely in words; the government should be able to create a real trust environment. So much for e-solutions that yes, we are a model with quite a few solutions, but unfortunately they have been developed for the so-called turn-of-the-century government. During the Mart Laar government, a great many decisions have been taken to this end. Yes, today they are thinking too, but these solutions often come very slowly and often there is the impression that it is very easy for the state to cash in for creating various new e-developments, although we certainly have systems and solutions that can be adapted to different institutions, but each institution must somehow create a new e-solution. This certainly does not make sense. I see the Prime Minister will be back here in a minute. I expect an answer from him as to whether the Reform Party is prepared to enter into a dialogue on the tax system, then it is a dialogue between political parties or a dialogue with entrepreneurs, and to build more trust in our country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U47	The members of the Riigikogu have no further requests to speak and, unfortunately, the chairman of the meeting cannot speak. However, the Prime Minister wishes to make a statement. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U48	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Criticism came from the left and the right. It was hectic, as usual, but I'm trying to answer here by subject. Firstly, of course, the Reform Party is ready for the tax bat. I dare say that we are, at the very least, ready, because we have been considered a party since 1994 who takes tax issues very seriously, and for good reason. Our tax policy has a very clear ideological and logical backbone. This is also a good thing to see in the action programme of the current government that labour taxation will be reduced, as it will certainly be detrimental to the competitiveness of the economic environment, and will be compensated by the taxation of harmful consumption. This clearly means increasing competitiveness. Unlike Andres Herkel, who said that our excise policy leads to the creation of a huge competitive advantage for other countries, I think that Estonia's competitive advantage does not have to be a bottle of vodka worth less than five euros. No, you don't! We do not need this competitive advantage. Secondly, we will look at the logic of the tax policy proposals that have been heard by the Free Party today and before and try to find either ideology or backbone there. Today you were talking about property tax. It is true that very few property taxes are used in Estonia. But there is a clear historical reason for this. There are very many people in Estonia who, as a result of historical injustice, lost their property or the property of their forefathers and were returned to them by restoring the Republic of Real Estate. Many of these people are elderly, whose only income is a pension, which may be 400 euros off the border, but for them their home is their only asset. I am not quite sure whether the Free Party really wants to propose to tax their property. What's a real estate other than people's homes in the lion's section? Tax treatment of real estate is certainly a considerable choice, but in my opinion it is not a very good choice in Estonia's socio-economic situation at the moment. The country tax is also a tax charge that is completely logical and fair, but we know that the Tallinn City Government has so badly overstepped that the payment of the tax on the land under its home became too much for the people. Therefore, a few years ago, the country had to come to the aid of the people. Now local taxes. Okay, but what are the local taxes you'd like to impose? Let's talk about them! So far, the introduction of local taxes has been a relatively happy measure. In Tallinn they wanted to introduce a sales tax, which, although formally a national tax, was intended to be introduced in only one region. We remember how embarrassing it was. It was like an extraordinary fiasco. Or we will charge a boat tax, which has also been used as a local tax in Tallinn. How much did it get from the city budget? There wasn't much, but there was a great deal of embarrassment to the government and a lot of concern to the people living in the city. If you have any ideas about what local taxes should be applied in Estonia, please come out with them! Thirdly, you have now come up with a proposal to introduce a social tax ceiling in Estonia and this is, in any case, gratitude. It keeps up the discussion that is actually necessary. I, too, consider it necessary to discuss whether the social tax ceiling is realistic, whether it would provide the expected effect of discussing it! But this is absolutely not in line with your current fiscal policy proposals, including those you did when the government was formed. Then you proposed an increase in labour taxes by increasing the rate of income tax, with various proposals ranging from 24% to 28%. Here, too, there is a need for some continuity: what do you want, either to increase or to reduce labour taxes? If there was a clear line, it would also be easier to have a dialogue with you. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U49	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U50	Thank you very much. And in answer to the questions, I assure you that you can be absolutely sure that the government and I, personally, are constantly communicating with entrepreneurs. We regularly communicate with the Association of Large Enterprises, the Confederation of Employers, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as well as with the representatives of start-ups, or the start-up table, which I myself have called. In addition, every time I go on an official tour in one of Estonia's counties, I visit companies and talk to local entrepreneurs in general. I dare say that I have a very good overview of what concerns Estonian entrepreneurs. If, two years ago, the biggest concern was too high taxes on labour, it is now a concern where to get people to work. On the contrary, Estonian companies do not want to hire people for less money than the minimum wage. Those people you referred to, who are unable to work all day long, I expect you to refer to people with special needs, and you will probably be able to ask your groupmate about it and he will be happy to explain it to you, a different set of rules will apply anyway. It is possible to obtain a discount in this case. So I guess you guys got a few things mixed up. I would argue that it is not the concern of businesses to pay a very small salary, but rather how to get an educated workforce. Labour shortages are a reality in most Estonian counties. For people, this means that they do not have to worry about their jobs and can count on wages to rise. This, as a whole, is actually good news. And the last thing. You also had a question about when the laws relating to administrative reform would come. I stress once again that there are no laws on content and no laws on content. The law adopted by the Riigikogu before Midsummer Day and laying down the details of the administrative reform is also very much the law of content. It defines in great detail the principles and objectives that the reform seeks to achieve. But it is true that we have agreed in principle in the government that we will reform the governments of the country by abolishing them in this form and by transferring a large part of their functions together with funding to the municipalities. In addition, we have more things that we want to hand over to local governments with funding. These draft laws are expected to be discussed at the meeting of the Cabinet in October and the Riigikogu will certainly reach the Riigikogu during this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U51	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U52	Next question. It is presented by Märt Sults, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Enn Eesmaa, Dmitri Dmitriev, Olga Ivanova, Anneli Ott, Viktor Vassiliev, Siret Kotka, Peeter Ernits, Kadri Simson and Jaanus Karilaid. On behalf of the heirs, March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U53	Honorable Chairman! Minister! Colleagues! This question has, however, been submitted to Mr Jürgen Ligi, who was then Minister of Education, and now it will pass on to the new minister. An inquiry has been submitted on 16 June inclusive. Before I begin to address questions to you, I would like to say that part of the questioning has already fulfilled its mission. To this day, it has not come to this misleading and horrible ranking of schools, from which you can see who did better in the state exams, etc. Since this has not come, an inquiry has accomplished one fifth of its task. But the question is this: 'State exams, 16.06.2016. Dear Minister for Education and Science, During the ongoing reform of general education, the state exams of the upper secondary school have lost their original function, content and form. An understanding of the unequal treatment of schools and their curricula has emerged. In particular, upper secondary schools providing in-depth training in mathematics and foreign languages are clearly preferred when taking state examinations. On the basis of the results of the State Exams, schools are ranked in a ranking which does not indicate the actual level of schools. ' Since the content of the state exams is dubious for our higher education institutions, this interview was conducted, universities are also conducting their entrance tests. But the idea of the original state exams was to reduce the burden on students so that in summer there is only once during the exam period. The state examinations represented the whole spectrum of subjects, and universities chose the results of subjects that were important to them, and on their basis people were accepted. This system is gone. Right now there are only two state exams, and that's under. Since we are saving money from all sides, we might also consider that the state exams are a relatively expensive undertaking, whether it is worth spending that money. These are the questions. First of all, 'How is the results of the state exams balanced by the completion of the national curriculum in schools? ' The second question: 'Has the Ministry of Education and Research analysed the effectiveness of state examinations? If so, what result has been achieved? The third question: " How and how do the results of the state exam correlate with the structure of general education schools' curricula? ' Next: 'What is the reason that universities carry out additional entrance tests in addition to the results of the state exam? ' Next: 'How much resources will it take to carry out state examinations: task preparation, reproduction, security packing, training, storage, delivery and control and evaluation of observers? ' Plus hiring the staff who distributes the work in the morning and receives them in the evening, rent the rooms. So that's the question. Question 6: 'What arguments do the Ministry of Education and Research base its long-term thinking that the final school exams are not adequate to assess the students' knowledge, but is the state exam? ' Seventh: 'In what situation is the Ministry of Education and Research prepared to analyse the model for the upper secondary school to be completed with school examinations organised by the schools themselves without asking the state for funds, while maintaining the possibility that, if necessary, the student can order a state examination from the Ministry of Education and Research? ' Here are two options: whether the exam would be made at the expense of the school budget or at the expense of the student himself. If the student needs it, why not let him order it for his money? The last question: 'What arguments have the Ministry of Education and Research continued to carry out the commissioning and distribution of state exams that are idle for students? ' That is the content of the inquiry and that is the order of the questions. Thank you for getting proper and accurate answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U54	Maris Lauri, Minister of Education and Science, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U55	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the questions. The first and third questions: 'How is the results of the state exams balanced by the completion of the national curriculum in schools? How and whether the results of the state exam compare with the structure of general education schools' curricula? ' The compliance of state examinations with the curriculum is guaranteed by strict requirements. The examination work is prepared by a professional committee composed of experienced teachers and university lecturers, approved by a ministerial decree. They shall be pre-tested before the tasks are used in the examination. Secondly, the subject experts and the Commission describe the requirements for the state examination and its compatibility with the curriculum. This compliance shall be described on the website of the examination body. The published correlation table provides a task-by-tasking analysis of the relationship of the task to the curriculum. And finally, after the exam, the teachers will be able to give feedback that will be used to prepare next year's questions. Question 2: 'Has the Ministry of Education and Research analysed the effectiveness of state examinations? If so, what results have been achieved? ' The study programme sets objectives for what knowledge and skills must be achieved. How they are achieved is largely left to schools to decide. In the Estonian education system, therefore, the autonomy of schools in choosing teaching methods, forms, materials and content is great. Work needs to be monitored from time to time to ensure that the main objective is achieved. One way is to keep the work under constant control, the other is to carry out state examinations. Undoubtedly, the second option is less burdensome for both teachers and students, and it is also more financially advantageous. National exams are one way to assess the effectiveness of the school in pursuing its objectives. This will provide an opportunity to assess and compare the results of schools in the implementation of the study programme. I would point out that this is one meter next to the other, there may be many more. Question 4: "What is the reason why universities take additional entrance examinations in addition to the results of the state exam? " I'm sure universities can respond more accurately to this, but based on what they have spoken about in the public domain, the following reasons may be given. Firstly, for a particular field of study, it is necessary to get a more accurate picture of the skills and knowledge that are outside the state exams. Secondly, universities are trying to assess the learning potential and motivation needed to succeed in a particular field of study of student candidates. Thirdly, people who for some reason have not passed state examinations also enter university. For example, people who are already older and have graduated from upper secondary school years ago and people who have graduated from a foreign - language school. Question 5: 'How much resources will it take to carry out state examinations: task preparation, reproduction, security packing, training, storage, delivery and control and evaluation of observers? ' The total cost was 2015/2016. During the academic year, 288027 euros for the conduct of the Estonian language, the second language of Estonian, mathematics and the English language exam. Question 6: 'What arguments do the Ministry of Education and Research base its long-term thinking that the final school exams are not adequate to assess the students' knowledge, but is the state exam? ' The examination prepared by the school is adequate to assess the objectives set out in the school curriculum. However, on the basis of the results of the school examination, it is not possible to identify the differences between schools, i.e. it is not possible to find schools where advice should be organised for better performance, or schools whose good experiences can be used as examples for others. Unlike school exams, state exams produce comparable and reliable results between the entire student body and schools and allow national statistics to be made, providing feedback to school holders for the development of the school network. The results of the state exams are also used as an entrance entry and allow comparison of all students on an equal basis. Question 7: "In what situation is the Ministry of Education and Research prepared to analyse the model for completing upper secondary school with school exams run by schools themselves without asking for funds from the state, while also maintaining the possibility that, if necessary, the student can order a state examination from the Ministry of Education and Research and from the student's own resources? ' A country where schools have a high degree of autonomy in drawing up their curriculum, teaching methods and organisation of studies, educational resources and, more generally, in choosing the style of school management, education needs to be balanced in addition to internal evaluation, in order to ensure good quality of education, an external evaluation carried out nationally, which is the state exams. If the state had an obligation to offer students who wish to do so an opportunity to take state exams alongside ordinary state exams for their own money, the examination system should be maintained in "just in case." In doing so, it would be unknown how many students would like to take such exams and how much they would pay themselves. Such an arrangement certainly cannot be considered meaningful. In addition, it would clearly be discrimination against pupils due to their material opportunities. Question 8: 'What arguments have the Ministry of Education and Research continued to carry out the commissioning and distribution of state exams that are idle for students? ' The Ministry of Education and Research is the organiser of the education system, who is responsible for ensuring quality education, and in order to achieve this objective, the Ministry must control the quality of education. § 37 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia provides that the provision of education is supervised by the State. An external evaluation system for learning outcomes is an important tool for fulfilling this obligation. That's it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U56	Questions for the Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U57	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! I am asking about a subject which is not directly relevant to these issues, but which is directly relevant to state examinations. What is your attitude and ministry's ability to consider a state exam passed even if the exam maker receives only one point? As you know- remember, there must have been at least 20 points at one time to consider the exam passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U58	Thank you! This possibility of passing an exam with one point has arisen during the Riigikogu's discussions and votes. Personally, I do not consider such an approach to be correct and I assume that the required result could be higher. But this is the point of discussion, and the result of the state exam can be interpreted by its users. I think if someone goes in with one point, it'll probably be interpreted as that one point.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U59	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! How do you comment on a situation that has repeatedly arisen that the Ministry of Education and Research recommends some textbook, such as mathematics, but the school, since it has textbooks, does not want to buy this textbook specifically, but the state exam is based on this textbook? What about discrimination here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U61	Thank you! I have also been a textbook writer myself, and I know that the textbook must be drawn up in accordance with the objectives set out in the curriculum. The textbooks must meet the conditions and requirements set out in the curriculum. To date, a system has been set up to ensure that textbooks are checked for conformity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U62	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We know that higher education institutions used the results of the state exams with great courage for years also in the calculation of entry. In recent years, several universities have once again returned to various tests and additional exams. What is your view: could higher education institutions more confidently trust the results of the state exams, for which control is really harmonised, or rather should it be left to each higher education institution itself and encourage this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U64	Thank you! To date, the circle of state examinations has been considerably reduced. In the past, state examinations were known to have been carried out in quite a number of subjects, and this was probably the reason why higher education used them more actively. I myself believe that higher education institutions should make the most of the results of state examinations. At the same time, we must recognise that there is, however, a need to assess other aspects of I do not know, knowledge in physics or chemistry and artistic talent. The question is also that, as we know, we have a narrow and broad mathematics exam, but certain disciplines may require more knowledge than those for which the exam has been taken. In this sense, there is also a need for a broader range of examinations. And as I said, there are people who, for some reason, have not passed the state exam, but the university has the right to accept them. But I really hope that higher education institutions will use the results of the state exams more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U65	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U66	Thank you. Madam Minister! One question of inquiry was the results of state examinations and the conduct of university entrance examinations. There are two groups of schools in our school network: one is good, the other is bad. Which way does the Ministry work? Perhaps it would be nice if we told you that one group of children doesn't need to be passed a second exam, but those kids who graduated from another group should go and do it again? Once again, they're nervous and they're going through everything that has to do with going to college.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U67	Thank you! The principle of state examinations is that they give everyone the same tasks, they are also valued equally. This will give a very clear picture of the skills and knowledge of each individual student within the scope of this subject. Basically, we can talk about the fact that we appreciate all graduates who pass one or another state examination on the basis of the same parameters, and that should also be objective. This is the same test and equal conditions for all. Yes, the question is certainly that young people have different abilities. Schools are not yet of uniform quality either. There are certainly other reasons why young people are sometimes unable to make the best use of their potential. But these exams also point to where there are problems. If in some schools the results are consistently better than in others, this may be due, for example, to the collection of better students. They're just stronger. We know these tougher schools. At the same time, it means that weaker students remain in others. So objectively, in this case, the school cannot be blamed for anything, just the ability of the students is different. But it also needs to be analysed whether the studies are being conducted well enough. The results of the State Exams provide an opportunity to compare. First of all, it turns out that somewhere there are very good results, somewhere there are worse results, and if this is for so many years, attention should be paid to and deal with the causes of the differences. And those with better results need to follow suit. In the case of admission, it is certainly not possible to make the changes you have mentioned, but it is possible to close the gaps and find ways to work better, using better school practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U68	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U69	Good minister! From your answers, I have captured two topics of discussion. One thing about passing a test with one point is that it could be a topic to be discussed in the future. The second topic is a little bit more circumstantial. There are three specific state exams, never there were any more. Is there any other subject that could be discussed? We all want the state exams to get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U70	Thank you for your question. Firstly, I agree that this issue of one point needs to be discussed. Secondly, we have three state exams. In the case of Estonian, a distinction must be made as to whether the official language is the mother tongue of the student or the so-called second language. So there are four different exams. So far, there is not much discussion of more exams, but certainly more attention should be paid to bringing in other metrics or parameters to assess the effectiveness of school studies. The Ministry of Education is also working for it. I believe that the comparison of school teaching is gradually becoming more adequate. And I really hope that such steps will be taken with understanding and positive sympathy, because the aim of all of us should be to have equal access to good education in all schools. Unfortunately, at this point, I don't have the courage to be 100% sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U71	Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Maris Lauri! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U72	President-in-Office, Minister and colleagues. I'd like to mark some of the things I read out of the minister's answers. The word 'discrimination' attracted attention. This means that if a student orders a state examination for his or her money, it is his or her wealthy discrimination. At the same time, the Ministry failed to respond to the results of the audit, which indicated that in some schools students have been discriminated against by asking for hidden tuition fees through non-profit institutions. No one at school was punished, not even fingered. No private school law could be passed. Financial discrimination is in full swing, but now ordering one of the state exams is discrimination! Further, the unparalleled is compared, statistics are produced. No student can pass the school quiz unless at least 50% of the question is answered correctly. The State Exam is done by one point! What are you guys doing in statistics? What kind of statistics does this show?! However, the content of the school is something else, in addition to the results of the state exams, there are so many other important things. Let me give you an example. I had a student say a while ago, "Märt, if you want so badly, I'll take that state chemistry exam for you 100 points. If you want it so bad! ' He made an exam of 98 points and brought me these points on the table: 'Well, now be satisfied, almost everything is right! But I didn't want to take that exam because I don't need it. ' At my school, bohemians studied, and he really didn't need it. For me, he made this exam: 'Okay, Märt, I'll give you this exam, okay, you get your 98 points, be happy! " All, but they have other goals! I'm not saying the exam is bad. The exam is very good. But the work is done from the client's material, as I was referring to just now. How can you compare the results of the mathematics exam in Tallinn Real School and Tallinn Art High School? One school has four hours of mathematics, the other has 16 hours or so. One comes from students who are motivated to study real subjects, the other comes from students who are interested in so-called soft subjects, art, some other things. How do you compare these two schools in mathematics? The only way to do that is if there's one job in real school 99 points, not 100, then it's a bad job. School's been working badly! Why doesn't anyone judge like that? Tallinn's English College is exactly the same: they have so cleverly done that they have converted the citizenship text into the English state examination. They will do so at the level of England, and our state examination will be replaced with it, and with the aim of not being able to compare with others, so that there is no reference moment. But what do you compare? Who are you comparing? On what grounds do you compare? That's totally funny. At the same time, I had a lot of hope for your answers. You have an accounting record, and I was hoping to hear clear numbers and proper analysis. No, I didn't. And most interesting: state exams cost only between EUR 200000 and EUR 300000. They say it's all cheap. It's not cheap! It's a half-year budget for a school with 500 students. It's not cheap, it's a pretty awesome amount! The half-year budget for one 500 students is what you say, uh, it's not money at all. So keep comparing the incomparable! Statistically, everything is fine in Estonia. Statistically, we're number one all over the world. But let's look at the real state of things! Forgive me, but there is no reading in Estonian school. If you give the students a text that needs to be understood, a third, or 30%, doesn't understand what they're reading. If you're telling me to do a head-to-head calculation, this skill is already absolute luxury. And if you tell our man to write a proper statement, you have to teach him a lot before he goes to write a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U73	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U74	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Madam Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Education is one of the areas in which processes require time, but also require a clear objective. That's probably why we're in an interesting position today. We are preparing and discussing a new education law. There should be no opposition and coalition to decide on many educational issues; we should all be primarily Estonian people who care that our children are well educated so that Estonia is at the forefront of its education, also from the point of view of its people. Now is the time to bring these questions to the table. Only one small part of these issues is state examinations. In my opinion, the most important point of view is what this education is anyway: whether it is just teaching or whether it is education. In this context, we need to consider our school system, how it works, and what role the teacher, as a teacher, plays, not only as an hour giver. These are basically important issues. The question of state examinations contains a number of very important components which should be discussed calmly. One of them is taking a one-point exam. Secondly, which is also very important: whether these three disciplines are correct in mathematics, Estonian language, foreign language. Perhaps the world has changed so much that the choice could be wider, perhaps also in physics and chemistry, the state examination should be carried out. This is also the subject of the debate. This is not primarily about what is right and what is wrong. The most important thing we have to say is that we want our children to have the best education. Yes, we want our school to be a part of growing up and our teacher to be a good schoolmaster. From this point on, we should certainly not forget the fact that passing state examinations will probably provide a very good basis for schools to analyse, to look in the mirror. As far as I know, many schools take advantage of this opportunity. Because, sorry, school is essentially an institution that really wants to work well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U75	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U76	Good President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry was made on the day that was my first working day in the Riigikogu. So I thought it was kind of symbolic. I thank the opposition! The topic of state examinations is definitely a topic that does not disappear from the table in upper secondary school education, which I have almost given in my life. I thank the Minister for his clear answers. But I'm still speaking on my own behalf and talking about what I have in my heart and what I think needs to be discussed by all of us, as Krista said a moment ago. In fact, the school should reflect life and prepare the student for life. And an important part of a person's life is choices, making choices. In the case of state examinations, there are no options. There are three specific exams, no options. The choices come in at school level when there is a choice of school examination and research or practical work. In my opinion, there is a contradiction that needs to be discussed and tackled calmly and slowly, as a number of other problems emerge from it. Let me give you an example. If there are three specific state exams, then in school there are mostly electives, optionals. However, students are specifically directed to these three subjects, and so maybe primary and secondary substances develop and the school loses in diversity. It seems to me that this contradiction, in which three subjects of examination have been defined in the same way, is a small choice, there are two levels of mathematics and Estonian as a foreign language, but on the other hand, life requires choices, is one of the topics we should think about. We have 20 years of experience in state examinations in Estonia. But we also have experience of the past not very long ago when state examinations were made in physics, chemistry, history and social studies. It seems to me that it is not impossible to combine these experiences and move forward quietly in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U77	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak, but the Minister does. Please, Minister of Education and Science Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm pointing out some of the arguments that were made here. Firstly, in my replies, I repeatedly stressed that state examinations are not the only instrument measuring the quality of education and the work of schools. There are many factors that, for objective reasons, lead to different outcomes in different schools. Those who place schools in the queue only on the basis of the results of the state exams, I point out that this is not done by the Ministry of Education and Research, but by the press, doing wrong and doing a disservice. The results of the state exams will be published tomorrow, but they will also publish the results of studies carried out over a number of years, comparing the "baseline" level, i.e. the degree of added value that schools have been able to bring to the students. Look at the success of entry and other factors, the so-called background, and how much more knowledge could be gained by studying in one or the other upper secondary school. So this is one additional parameter. There are certainly other parameters that make the school good: interest groups, atmosphere, additional subjects, additional options. They're all important. But as I said at the end of my first speech: let's take it easy, these things will gradually increase. I would also stress that it is never right to compare one parameter, and I have never said that, let us compare one thing on the basis of one thing. The fact that the public likes to do so is a sad fact. Secondly, I certainly have not said that taking state examinations is cheap. I just called it a sum. Thirdly, there are currently three substances, and there are reasons why these three substances are chosen. First, Estonian is the official language of Estonia. I think it is very important that young people living and studying in Estonia are able to express themselves fluently and clearly in the national language. Second, mathematics. Mathematics is the subject on which real matter is based. Without mathematics, it is not possible to cope in science and it is not actually possible to cope in normal life without mathematics. This basic knowledge must certainly be acquired. Third, in today's world, the ability of foreign languages is essential to communicate elsewhere in the world. This skill must be given at least at upper secondary school level, but we expect people to learn further and communicate actively with the outside world. Whether other national examinations should be added in the future is certainly a question of discussion. I very much agree that education is not only about providing knowledge and skills, but also about educating and shaping positions, at all. That's what's in the Education Act. Having studied the new version, I really have very positive expectations of its impact. I am counting on substantive cooperation and discussions on certain aspects, especially, as I mentioned, of passing the exam by one point. But there are certainly other issues on which the debate is welcome. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U79	Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Maris Lauri! I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U80	We will discuss an inquiry by Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Herkel, Jüri Adams, Krista Aru and Artur Talvik. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U81	Good Chairman! It could be said that one ghost has been allowed to walk around Estonia, this is a seeming state reform. The government has begun to carry out any plans without having a big picture of what could happen in one corner of Estonia as a result. Yes, we need a state reform. But state reform should mean a change in values and the world of thought. This certainly cannot be just a government concern, but it should cover our entire society and reflect on developments in society. That is why, on 16 June, we submitted to Kristen Michal an inquiry into the departure of services provided by majority state-owned companies. We met with Omniva's representatives on June 1. The topic of the closure of county offices of the Road Administration has been very active in the media. It gives people the creeps. If there are public authorities in different parts of the country, it will also give our people a certain emotional sense of security. Then people know that the state values them. That is why we want to ask whether, before the institutions under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications made changes in their organisation of work, analyses were carried out and whether the impact on local authorities and also on citizens was analysed. We are also wondering whether state companies and ministries have cooperated, whether there have been discussions and conclusions that if one institution disappears, what will happen to another institution, whether they will somehow be able to perform each other's tasks and help people with services. For example, today we discussed the debts of Kohtla-Järve housing associations in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Justice never made it to an information field. As of this month, the debt burden of Kohtla-Järve housing associations is EUR 23000. To address this problem, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications had commissioned a cost-effective analysis of EUR 29000 (plus VAT). There was a representative of the Ministry of Justice sitting next door who said they were ready to come up with solutions in a week about what they're talking about. Of course, everyone was amazed that why we order a service, an analysis that even the amount of this debt quite exceeds. We also want to know from the Minister how the redundancy plans are in line with the major objectives of the administrative reform and with the question of halting marginalisation allowed in the coalition agreement. We are also interested in the understanding of the Ministry, which is the social role of the majority-owned companies in the state. Is it true that what I referred to, apart from the availability of services, is also important for emotional security? I'm bringing here a reference to Omniva's activities in my home country, Otepää. One part of Otepää and Sangaste rural municipality and Palupera rural municipality is joining, but the increasing number of residents in the course of the administrative reform does not imply a guarantee that the postal service Otepää will remain, although it is an attractive tourist destination. It's been allowed for a long time, but they don't put them up there either. All municipalities must be aware of the fact that the accessibility of services and the presence of the state in the country will certainly not improve, but deteriorate as a result of changes in administrative reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U82	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear members of the Riigikogu, honored heirs! First of all, I'm going to answer a little bit about what the inquisitor said in his introduction. Undoubtedly, the heating debt of apartment buildings is a serious issue, which I wouldn't joke about. The way in which the municipality, the state and all the various parties, including housing associations, cooperate is a longer-term issue and we can deal with this separately. How thorough, or how expensive an analysis is, I cannot say by heart, is probably what my colleagues have proposed, but the subject, if such, certainly deserves attention. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has certainly dealt with this more than would be the responsibility of one ministry. Now to the question. Since last Monday we addressed the same subject on the initiative of the Centre Party and some of the Free Party was also in the Chamber, some of the answers are a little shorter today. I'll explain more if I have to. I will say, as an introduction, by repeating the debate last week a little, that Omniva still provides services throughout Estonia. Omniva aims to provide services to people in the most comfortable way, i.e. in the daily routine. In addition, Omniva will develop the services that will be used in the future. The postal network is organised in cooperation with local authorities and local operators. Where there is demand for a service, the best solution will be found, in the form of parcel terminals, in cooperation with different parties, or the help of local shops or libraries, for example, will be used. The aim is to provide more and more convenient service to the consumer. I hope everyone understands the simple logic that I described here last week: if a small post office is trying to increase the number of customers in competition with the shop, it must be remembered that the shop as a shop is still several times more efficient. This means that it is more convenient for a person to transfer a letter service to a store, for example. We all go to the store, you can also use the mail service and parcel terminal, and you do not need to spend time searching for multiple service points. Similar cooperation will take place in the postal field, for example, with regional libraries, etc. I think it is a good idea that wins the consumer, that the burden on workers improves, and that the taxpayer, who bears the cost of a letter service and a periodical journey home, also wins from this system. Now to questions and answers. The first question: 'What analyses have been carried out to explain the impact of the presence of the state and essential services (postal service, car registration service, etc.) on the situation of local authorities and on the confidence of citizens in the state? ' In 2015, a study by the University of Tartu on the spatial location and availability of private and public services and the handling of the service in county planning was published by the Centre for Social Science Applied Research (RAKE). The study is available on the website of the Ministry of the Interior. I have this link, too, but I don't think I'm going to read it. If you want, I can give it to you later. The second question: 'Do and how often have there been consultations between various state companies and ministries discussing the availability and role of public services/service points in society? What have been the results of such consultations? " In each ministry, there is ongoing communication with the directors of the agencies as well as with the managers of state-owned companies. Meetings with managers, for example, take place regularly twice a month in our area of administration, and work meetings are held in accordance with needs and circumstances. For example, we have had many consultations with the Head of the Road Administration, the last of which took place the week before last, before the reform was amended, which resulted from long discussions during the summer. The process of designing the Postal Act lasted over a year. During this period several meetings took place between AS Eesti Post and the Ministry, during which the role of the state in the company providing postal services was discussed. The main interest and duty of the state is to ensure the functioning of the universal postal service, i.e. the transmission of letters in the form of simple, letter, letter and letter letters, and the continuous and high-quality transmission of parcels in letters and letters throughout the territory of Estonia. Even in less populated regions there is a need to maintain an infrastructure and service network and to provide a service that is costly and loss-making in most regions. The behaviour and consumption patterns of the Estonian people and their changes are also very important in decision-making. There is nothing to do, but every year, both the sending of letters and the use of office services are decreasing. We all realize, for example, that mobile bills are no longer sent by letter and that there is less and less need to send messages by mail. Visitation by the Public Road Administration offices is also in a steadily declining trend: compared to 2015, the number of service offices in 2016 decreased by 16% compared to eight months. The trend towards reduced use of services must be accompanied by changes in the frequency and manner in which services are provided. Of the most popular services provided by the Public Road Administration, both electronically and in the office, residents prefer e-services in about 60% of cases. Given the expectations of Estonian people and changes in consumption patterns, the Estonian Road Administration will continue to develop new e-services. As I mentioned, the patterns of the consumption of postal services by Estonians have changed. It is much more convenient for each of us to use a post office in the store or a 24/7 parcel terminal in front of the store, which is open 24/7, than to go to the post office. The survey shows that 5% of people go to the post office once a month, send a package of 2%, buy a brand of 3%, send a letter of 2% and pay a bill of 1%. On this basis, the number of access points used to provide the universal postal service and their locations and the opening hours of the access points, coordinated with the Competition Authority, have also been reviewed. According to the basis for determining the number and location of access points, each city and municipality with at least 5000 inhabitants must have at least one post office providing universal postal service. The minimum population ratio has been calculated on the basis of the Administrative Reform Act. The possible amendment does not undermine the availability of the universal postal service, the letters will continue to be delivered on five days a week and the periodicity will continue to be delivered on six days a week. In addition, the postal network is organised in cooperation with local authorities and local operators. Where there is demand for a service, the best solution will be found in cooperation between the various parties. The service is provided according to the needs of the customers. So the aim is not to close the post office, but to get closer to the customer so that we can offer more and more convenient services. This is also the aim of the Estonian Post or Omniva: more customers and no less service. I'm going to go over a few more numbers. Mailing decreased by 15% in 2015, while the parcel business grew by 58%. Compared to the number of parcel terminals in 2012 and 2015, it has increased 22 times. This shows how people's patterns of consumption change. The third question: 'How is the Road Administration operating in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in line with the objectives of the administrative reform and with the halting of marginalisation permitted by the Coalition Agreement? ' I attach great importance to the balanced development of the various regions of Estonia. Many of the institutions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, such as the Maritime Administration, the Road Administration, Omniva and others, are located all over Estonia. The employees of the Road Administration are not and will not be located only in Tallinn; the workforce is divided across all counties of the country. Let it be stressed once again for the verbatim report that the Road Administration will not close any of its offices and exams will also be accepted on trips to the Central Examination Centre. That's so that the principle of anonymity is applied and the examiner doesn't know who he's going to test. It aims to prevent corruption cases. Apart from physical presence, other changes have been made to inhibit peripheralization. For example, in September, the government approved a fundamental change in order to ensure that the existing county-based arrangements for bus and coach traffic are based on a regional public transport centre. To this end, the functions of rural governments will be transferred to the Road Administration, which, in cooperation with local authorities, will form regional public transport centres. The change is driven by the experience of the successful Harjumaa, Pärnumaa and Järvamaa centre and the desire to give local authorities better opportunities to be involved in the organisation of public transport in their area. The amendment is planned to enter into force in the second half of 2018 or in the beginning of 2019. Question 4: "How do you see the social objective of majority state-owned companies? Or do you expect them to only work to maximise profitability? ' I am convinced that where the market operates smoothly, the state does not need to be a market participant but a regulator. Estonia has a participation in 34 companies operating in Estonia. State-owned companies should be profitable in the ideal world and act only if it is not possible to achieve their goals as a state, for example for strategic security interests or other reasons. For example, the aim of the Estonian state is not to have an airline company and it is only for profit purposes, but it is important for the Estonian state that Estonian people have connections with the rest of the world and that there is competition when flying to Tallinn. Some other countries have sad experiences with the loss of competition. We had this to a lesser extent on the Copenhagen route, where Nordica got off the route and therefore the Estonian people's flight to Copenhagen was reduced and the tickets were more expensive. There are more examples. However, in my time, a number of privatisation analyses have also been launched in the Ministry. The first swallow, the placing of a road maintenance company on the free market, which could then be privatized, was discussed in the government a few weeks ago. Similarly, we need to review other companies. Some must be merged into a single group and into a value chain, some must be privatised or placed on the stock market, and only strategic or otherwise necessary companies could be left to the State in such a form. I'll give you an example. One of our management companies is in charge of storing liquid fuel supplies, the service is purchased on the market, but dealing with the supply is a security requirement. Another company, for example, is involved in the management of nuclear waste, and also in this, I suggest, we leave the state under control. But road maintenance and parcel delivery could rather be privatized or placed on the stock market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U83	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U84	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! The topic of the housing association was certainly not a joke, but a serious example that public authorities could cooperate more. But my question concerns Omniva. You have pointed out that in a municipality with at least 5,000 inhabitants, Omnival is obliged to provide universal postal service. Should this be part - time or full - time? I know that in several municipalities where this minimum criterion is being fulfilled, there are still three days of service provision. What's the plan to create a parcel machine network? By what time Estonia should be covered with a parcel terminal network, as there is no possibility of using a machine gun in a number of municipalities with at least 5 000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U85	Thank you. There were two things going on here. Firstly, when you referred to the issue of heating debtors, I felt that you did not take this issue seriously enough. As the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has had to deal with this problem repeatedly, there is a need to order an analysis of what longer-term solutions would be, so that the state does not have to deal with the same problem again every year. The Ministry of Justice has not proposed all the solutions so far, but it is more than welcome when they carry out analysis and propose solutions. I think it's a good example that you can if you have to. As former Minister of Justice, I can certainly commend the good people there and say that they will come to help. Very good! That was about the first part of the question. Answer to the other side of the question. I described the trends. In fact, it is a trend that Omniva, or Eesti Post, still goes along with what people's consumption habits are. I was talking about the difference between the parcel machine network in 2012 and 2015, which is 22 times. This means that people use significantly more e-commerce. In 2015, e-commerce increased by 58%. This shows that a company that wants to provide a service, be commercially successful and remain competitive will certainly expand the parcel machine network. Omniva's on it. As far as 5000 inhabitants are concerned, the requirement is that at least one post office providing universal postal services must be located there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U86	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U87	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. We have completed the third inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U88	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I'm sorry if my question is too specific, but maybe you're aware of the requirements that Omniva puts forward for those shops or institutions that could provide postal services in a small village or village. When I listened to you, I remembered an example of the city of the Cross in Läänemaa. Last January, the post office was closed and the service was taken to a hamburger stand by the highway. This cooperation lasted about six months, but it did not work because the location was very bad for older people and it was also dangerous to move along the road. In fact, it is a good thing that this service has ended there. Then Omniva offered to the municipality government that it could contribute to the purchase of the parcel terminal and so on. In short, an endless line. At the same time, perhaps a person living in the village centre would agree that this postal station would be opened for everyone in his home. Are there very strict rules? What's it supposed to be about?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U89	Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U90	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Public transport is currently being organised by rural governments. I read that from 1 January 2019 there would be four centres. I would like to hear from you a little bit what the motivation is for these centres to be set up and whether they are public authorities, or whether we are organising them, say, at the level of private business.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U91	Thank you. I'll be brief. This is because the Road Administration is entrusted with the functions of rural governments. The Road Administration, together with local authorities, will establish regional public transport centres. They are similar to similar centres in Harjumaa, Pärnumaa and Järvamaa. I think that these examples, at least some of them, are certainly familiar to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U92	Thank you. I don't know the detailed rules, as you said. You can talk to Omniva about it. Cooperation will certainly take place with the store network when it is necessary to provide a letter service. There are some services that need to be registered and settled. I know there's this service moved from the store to the library somewhere. I think Omniva is such a fast and flexible company, though, that she will take advantage of it if a better solution emerges. I hadn't heard of it, I honestly admit it was made in a burger stand. But who knows, maybe in some places it's the only place you can do it, although I'm rather surprised. Omniva is definitely looking for solutions. Once again, I like it as a trend, and it seems reasonable if they are looking for places where people go anyways to offer a letter service. If people were to look for these places separately, I think it would be much worse. But I can go over the details and forward it to you, if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U93	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned Estonia's strategic fuel supply. I want to ask you a few things. Once upon a time, we had this stock in Sweden, from which it would be extremely difficult and difficult, if not impossible, to catch up with the crisis. Can you tell us if this stock is now being held in Estonia and how much fuel is there? How long will it last if Estonia is faced with some major crisis and it is not possible to obtain more from anywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U95	Thank you. This stock is at the level prescribed by law. If you want a detailed overview of the service contracts, I can certainly ask you that. If necessary, this information can be passed on to you; it is certainly not hidden from the members of the Riigikogu. I think there have been even other ideas around here in the meantime. Last time in the budgetary procedure, I think someone from this hall or somewhere else suggested that some of this stock should be sold, because it is a little too much. This margin still takes into account consumption over a certain period. Even if world markets sometimes fluctuate, I do not think that such proposals should be made. But detailed information about where this stock is being held, and other details can be communicated later, I certainly cannot tell by heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U96	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It's about the delivery of newspapers in the country. Earthlings are interested in it. In the meantime, rumors were that there would also be a five - day working week. Or maybe there's an option like the one that happened with the Road Administration, where all of a sudden it started to go away? Because of the serious opposition of the rural people, this thing changed, which is very nice. But what about the newspapers, can rural people be sure that home delivery will continue six days a week?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U98	Thank you. My view is that this will certainly continue on six days a week. I have spoken with the leaders of the Estonian Post and their position is the same. I don't even know the exact genesis of this story how it got out. I can only assume that since price negotiations are taking place between the postal company and the periodicals, perhaps someone has said something that was misinterpreted. It's hard to say. I repeat my personal opinion that if the papers want to appear seven days a week, the mail will deliver them seven days a week. We just have to take into account that the taxpayer is putting the periodicity on the backpack. It has also happened once that the shoulder was laid down too much, and we had to repay the prohibited State aid for the delivery of the periodical period home. This case, too, has been in public. So this is the subject that will continue to be dealt with. This part of the universal postal service will certainly be maintained both in the countryside and in the city. I don't think that should be a problem. As far as the Road Administration is concerned, I think it is rather good that the Road Administration's scheme was discussed so much and so thoroughly and received feedback. The leaders of the Road Administration reviewed their plans and made changes. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U99	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, On Friday at the scientific conference in the Riigikogu conference hall, one of the possible development models of the state's economy was that the state should be for ordinary people to live on an insurance policy. How do you view such a possible model and see the possibility for state-owned businesses to be in this insurance policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U101	Thank you. This is indeed a very interesting philosophical question. Unfortunately, I was in Pärnu on Friday morning and, as I know, some other people who would have liked to attend this conference were in Pärnu. I met Pärnu entrepreneurs there. Together with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, a bigger event took place, where we discussed connections passing through Pärnu, Rail Baltic and everything else. I can't tell if the state has to be a human insurance policy. The State has certain tasks. I think that every party and person has a world-view-dependent understanding of what a country's task is. It's hard for me to tell you what key it was handled in. When you ask what the state has to guarantee to a person, I am a right-wing liberal, and I think that, like a company, the state must provide a playing field so that a person can be entrepreneurial and realise his talents and everything he has done. The country doesn't have to be the one doing everything in advance and in the back. I wouldn't want a country like that very well. Does the state have to have a safety net? Of course it has to be. That is why we have a social system and different opportunities. On the first question, we have just changed the idea that the state is also dealing with a situation where people have heating debts and wonders what to do in order to avoid them in the future. In the ideal world, maybe the country shouldn't be doing all this, but in the meantime, there are anomalies. This is a philosophical debate. I don't know exactly what was discussed at that science conference, and that's why I don't exactly appreciate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U102	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U103	Let's go to the fourth, last question today. This is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõmme, Jüri Adams, Ain Lutsep, Külliki Kübarsep, Artur Talvik, Andres Ammas and Krista Aru about the consolidation and further politicisation of state enterprises. The inquiry has been submitted to Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U104	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Indeed, we have made such an inquiry. The starting point for this inquiry, to be very brief, is that our state companies need reform to advance, in particular a reform to ensure that their management is depoliticised and with it the maximum competence. Since the information that we had on the consolidation of public enterprises at that time, on 13 September, when we submitted an enquiry, did not at all confirm that the reform programme also provides for depoliticisation, we hope to get that confirmation today. Yes, the Minister of Finance has made a statement that members of the Riigikogu should be recalled from the councils of state companies. But nothing like this has happened. As a result, we do not have the certainty that this consolidation plan envisages these steps. We have therefore asked some questions. Among other things, we want to know how a positive effect will be ensured when a new holding company is created, but it will bring together subsidiaries with very different work-specifics. I think we need a reason here. At the end of this presentation, I would also like to draw attention to question 4: 'What are the competence requirements and responsibilities of ministerial officials in relation to the duties of national companies? Are changes planned here? ' We see possible duplication here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U105	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will now answer the questions that have been asked. The first question: 'How does the creation of an additional level of management (the holding company) contribute to the clarification of the ownership policy, or the Minister's vision of the future? ' Consolidation has several objectives. In particular, this is an opportunity to sell Estonia as a freight corridor in a targeted, coordinated and more competitive manner, in cooperation with all interested market participants. Stronger financial management and better financial positions, which can be achieved through holding companies and more cost-effective operations of state assets, are just as important. Better control of companies' assets and decisions is also very important. For this purpose, the internal control and internal audit system shall be centralised as one important function at holding level. This will provide a better opportunity, at strategic level, to set targets for businesses and also to monitor them. In building up the control system, the group monitors the so-called three lines of defence model: risk owner, risk manager and internal auditor. The transfer of the internal audit unit under the management of the board of the parent company creates prerequisites for greater independence and objectivity within the organisation and, by verifying the effectiveness of the methods used to achieve the control objectives of the first and second line of defence risk management, gives the senior management body, the board of the parent company or the audit committee a comprehensive assurance that corporate governance, risk management and internal control are effective. This level of independence is not available alone on the other line of defence. The authority of the public authority, such as the minister, as the manager of the State's shareholding, retains the competence to appoint the supervisory board of the holding company and to issue binding orders through the supervisory board of the holding company. The second question: 'How will the selection of board members of public undertakings become more transparent if the Minister appoints the holding company board and the holding company appoints the boards to the companies providing port, rail and airport services respectively? ' A government order for the appointment of board members is currently being drawn up. This designation shall be made by a nomination committee. In my opinion, it is logical that the experts of the subsidiaries' councils will also be examined in this committee. In addition, there are representatives of the two ministries, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, who are there for the performance of their duties, and a representative of the board of directors of the group, who are also there for the performance of their duties. Thus, the state retains direct contact and control and adds a new principle to the nomination committee, which looks for us to have good members of the Council. The third question: 'How do you justify the possibility of achieving a positive effect by creating an additional level of management if the specifics of the activities of subsidiaries that are concentrated under the holding company are extremely different? What kind of savings or an increase in management competence do you expect from the management level? ' The positive effect of corporate consolidation is that there will be an opportunity to sell Estonia as a freight corridor in a targeted, coordinated and more competitive manner, in cooperation with all interested market participants. If the freight corridor, or value chain, is more commercially competitive, then the country as owner and the taxpayer will be able to earn more from it. This is particularly relevant now, when the decline in trade flows is felt both in Estonia and in neighbouring countries. It is no secret, for example, that representatives of the Russian Government have said that they believe, at a difficult time, that cost-effectiveness and a good financial offer are question No 1 when looking at the narrow transit sector, which is currently experiencing difficult times. But the group, the holding company has a much larger range of activities and can also bring new customers to Estonian companies. The second significant impact will come from a more cost-effective operation of state-owned assets. In addition to the role of owner of ships, it is possible to provide operating, manning and technical management services more cost-effectively, both on their own ships and on the ships of companies and subsidiaries of the group, as well as on other public structures and private individuals and companies, thereby increasing cross-use of ships. In addition, the functions of the holding company's management level are a strategic view and input, internal control and internal audit, financial management and coordination of joint activities in the value chain. With the proposed model, more efficient management of the company will bring economic benefits. However, there are other benefits: finding synergies and exchanging good management and work practices, better and stronger financial management and financial position through holding companies, etc. In terms of numbers, the consolidated outcome of the group as a whole is projected to increase by EUR 8.8 to EUR 14.8 million. That's a conservative estimate. Question 4: "What are the competence requirements and responsibilities of ministry officials in relation to the duties of state companies? Are changes planned here? ' According to the Commercial Code, the company's day-to-day management is carried out by the management board and strategic management by the supervisory board. The Ministry does not interfere in the day-to-day management of commercial companies. The Ministry shall prepare decisions falling within the competence of the general meeting. The criteria for selecting officials are good professional and professional knowledge and skills, reliability and the desire to constantly complement themselves. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, for example, is guided by the requirements laid down for members of the management body in the State Property Act. Professional management of companies in the process of appointing members of the Supervisory Board of public undertakings shall be ensured through competent persons in the framework of the White Paper on Participation Policy. It is proposed that the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board should take place on a nomination committee, the majority of which are experts with practical management experience from the private sector. Question 5: "Are you clear that Martin Kukk will be the manager of the new holding company? ' I'll rule it out. If it is to be ruled out, I would also like to refute the rumor that Artur Talvik will be the manager of the new company. I think it's the two names that somebody's just spreading. They ask even more about Arthur Talvik. Why, I don't know. The new holding company will be run by a competition, as in any other area. Please note that in more than a year since I have been in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, many state companies have received new councils and boards. Many people from the private sector have also come to the aid of our administration. This trend will undoubtedly continue, sectors will work together and exchange best practices and practitioners. Question 6: 'How do your coalition partners, IRL and social democrats view your plan? ' I always look forward to positive, optimism is our moral duty. The Cabinet has discussed the issue three times: in September 2015 and in June and July this year. Discussions have been constructive, some issues still need to be persuaded and argued by partners, but I believe that we can agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U107	Thank you. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. But I would like to know what the Committee is, what you mentioned, the Committee for the Appointment of Members of the Council, when it comes, who it is made up of, and who the wise ones are there. Does this nomination committee do qualitatively differently than the Reform Party and the Ministers of the Government Coalition have so far done by naming people from these three political parties to the councils, and probably with the finger of specialists? What's the cycle going to be like? If, for example, a member of the Supervisory Board is appointed, is it possible that his term of office does not coincide with the working hours of the government that appoints him? So far, this thing has been going along with every government: coalition politicians in the Council, but those members who are political, but are not in the coalition, are not out of the Council. Does that change?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U109	Thank you. I'm going to be more specific about some things. Firstly, this nomination committee would consist, for example, of a representative proposed by the Chamber of Commerce, a representative of employers, a Chancellor of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and experts from the Ministry of Finance and the private sector. This skeleton is on this committee. Who exactly are these people, this decision is now being made by the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs, and then we can clarify it. The point is, however, to create a permanent body whose task is to invite people to the board of companies by assessing exactly what people with specialist knowledge are needed there. My experience is that it is rather difficult to get entrepreneurs from different sectors and, let's say, better known people into councils, because everyone has their own jobs and jobs, that is understandable. You asked about that period. I think that this issue is important, because very often, in the Councils, I think there is one concern that causes confusion or inconsistency: the Council's working period is shorter than that of the Governing Board, for example, and so the competence of the Governing Board clearly exceeds that of the Council. So this is definitely a subject that needs to be discussed. I'm not saying this for the first time. Certainly, the idea that coalition politicians are being referred to in councils and no one else is there must be refuted. There are many entrepreneurs, state officials, representatives of several sectors, including members of the Riigikogu, as well as people from the backgrounds of political parties or any political party belonging to the Riigikogu. So, in my opinion, everyone here is equally represented. The idea that members of the Riigikogu should not be part of the Riigikogu has been assessed differently by the various Chancellors of Justice. Let's just remember that Allar Jõks said he didn't think they should be part of it. At the same time, the position taken by Indrek Teder, which can be found on the Internet, is such that he does not consider it to be contrary to the Constitution. However, Ülle Madise has said that it is rather a question of the appointment procedure. I think that the appointment procedure could also be viewed from the Riigikogu side in a similar way to the one when the Riigikogu Hall appoints a representative to RMK, the Estonian National Opera or somewhere else, when the Riigikogu commission discusses the candidacy of this person and then gives a mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U110	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U111	Good President! Good Minister, thank you for giving a destructive assessment of the rumor that tells me that I will be the head of such an organization! I have a question about the 'campaign' launched by the IRL. They consider that all members of the Riigikogu should be recalled immediately from all councils. The members of the Riigikogu, which is only part of the Reform Party, may have remained in the councils of state companies or state-owned companies. How do you respond to Sven Sester's call to recall all members of the Riigikogu from the Soviets?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U112	Thank you. First of all, I hope I didn't make a destructive assessment of your dream. I was just saying that there would be a public competition, and we certainly cannot say that one person or another or a third person would be working there. If you take yourself out of the Riigikogu and start doing business, you are welcome to compete everywhere. But that's it. I certainly don't want to destroy anyone's dreams. As far as members of the Riigikogu are concerned, I partly commented on this in reply to the previous question. Once again, the Chancellors of Justice have had different opinions. Why is this subject going on today? We discussed the White Paper on Enterprise Policy in the government, looking at state-owned companies and how to manage these participations in the first place. We also discussed the membership of the members of the Riigikogu in company councils and what the principle should be. At the time, it was also said that the Minister of Finance was asking for the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. To the Minister for Finance, and to Mr Jõks, for example, who was in this working group and has dealt with this subject, there is no secret to this, and we have already discussed it at the time, that, for example, my opinion coincides with the opinion of the Indrek Teder School, who says that this is not an illegal situation. But I think that this appointment could be arranged by analogy with other nominations, which could be done by the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu, as the Committee on Culture is discussing, I do not know, the appointment of people to the Broadcasting Council. It was such a very simplified explanation. Should this recall be done quickly? I have, at least through the press, understood that I have not been able to read this Sven Sester material, so that, according to this proposal, recall could theoretically take place within a week of the government's decision. So I guess it's not a matter of a week, but I can miss it here, I haven't seen the material. I'm sure we'll discuss this completely calmly. I think that getting a mandate from the Riigikogu does not deprive a person of the skills he had before. Who used to be a doctor, is certainly also after a doctor who used to be a teacher, is still a teacher. As time has shown, if a person was a journalist before, he could return to this profession. I've been to Three Irons just recently. Mihkel Raud hadn't gotten any softer. I hear you went there, too, Arthur Talvik. So life goes on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U113	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U114	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! That's the question that came up when I listened to you. Last week at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we briefly discussed how Estonian Railways are doing and how the port is doing and how one is doing badly and the other unexpectedly well. Now, if we consolidate them nicely and make one holding company, are they not going to compete internally in this company? Is there no conflict between them? Calm me down and tell me how you disprove it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U115	First, I'll calm you down. The idea is what I described here earlier, namely to create a freight corridor and a value chain. The better the cooperation between different companies and parties, or between port and rail, the better both will be. After all, they can complement each other because one brings customers and goods to another, and together they can open new markets and bring new customers, it works both ways. This is rather an example that if two companies with different skills and different backgrounds work together, both of them will win. That's more like a plus. One of the driving forces we are discussing this group, the value chain and the holding company, as I described it, is that today it is a question of how effective it is compared to our competitors. When we look at Finland or Latvia, we see that they are our competitors. We want the value chain to be as effective as possible in economic terms and to be able to offer a price that, regardless of any turbulence, would be so competitive in the political landscape of some countries that it would be able to attract customers. That's what this is all about. This wins both the railway and the port, both.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U116	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U117	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I also have a question about the nomination committee. After all, the State Chancellery has given help in carrying out important occupations, i.e. it has announced a competition and organised it. Have you considered that the State Chancellery could play this role? It seems to me that, in order to achieve the independence of the nomination committee, they should be paid a fee. What are the costs of creating this new body?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U118	Thank you. I admit that we have looked at the appointment of senior officials at the State Chancellery. There's an analogy. I was at a Rail Baltic event last week, I was not at a government meeting where it was supposed to be discussed that, for example, a representative of employers would be part of this screening committee for senior officials in the country. There would be some analogy here if there were a private-sector representative with his experience in this committee. The reward, as far as I know, isn't gonna pay them. I may be wrong, but I don't know if I'm gonna say it by memory. There must certainly be some expenditure to serve the appointment committee, whether officials have to do the job or whether it is done in some other way. Ultimately, finding good people in councils and screening candidates will certainly require some costs. But how much these expenses are, I can't tell by heart. I think the Minister of Finance can tell you how much money he has foreseen for this, because this committee will remain in the service of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U119	Thank you, Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U120	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U121	5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U122	The need to review the principles of governance of state-owned enterprises has been discussed for years. This summer, a "White Paper" describing the principles of governance of long mature public enterprises was finally adopted. However, unlike the White Paper, green roads have not become the plan of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure to set up a holding company for sub-offices of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. And it's good! I will tell you more about three reasons why I think it is very good that this plan has not been approved, and I very much hope that it will not be done either. First. A further level of management in the form of a holding company has been launched with the intention of establishing another level of management between transport companies and the Ministry. The creation of a holding company, however, adds to and does not reduce the levels of management. Each level of governance that is created, in turn, creates more blind corners, increases the opportunity to blur and evade responsibility. According to the OECD, the natural problem for state enterprises is the multiplicity of management levels: management board, council, ministry, government, Riigikogu. The number of levels of governance should be minimised rather than encouraged. The inclusion of governance levels, possible consolidations etc., on the contrary, reduces transparency and makes it difficult to set strategic tasks on a sectoral basis and monitor their implementation. Putting companies involved in different areas of the Ministry of Economic Affairs under one hat would mean, figuratively speaking, bringing the theatres, hospitals and school buildings under one holding company. The potential cost savings are non-existent, but the costs of holding will rather increase. However, this does not mean that there is nothing to be done here. You could seriously consider bringing the country's fleet under one hat. However, these are companies operating in one sector, whose more central management could ensure both savings and business success. However, in order to support better cooperation between public enterprises, there is no need to create more holding up high and far away. By the way, the Estonian Railways and the Port of Tallinn are working together now and have done so before. But I'm sure there's still room for improvement. This could, however, be the work of officials and ministers of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in this field and encourage companies in their administration to cooperate. Second. Although I admit that in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications the management of companies is under-run and has been a longer-term problem, the solution should not be to withdraw from responsibility. The central issue is public responsibility. The capacity for strategic management must be created within the Ministry in such a way as to maintain both the ability to influence strategic decisions of the company and political responsibility. However, by setting up a holding company, the Minister can also delegate the little substantive responsibility he has in the public eye, and in the future, every transport company can point its finger at the holding board, always staying on the tree, no matter how big the bang goes. Since holding must, according to the proposed plan, be the last line of defence for the assessment and management of business risks, the Minister and the Ministry's officials will have no role to play in bearing important public responsibility. The minister is then only a representative of the owner of the holding company. Since holding, in turn, only manages holdings and there are no business processes there, the Minister will not, in the future, organise any ownership policy of companies that actually make profits. What is there to deny, in the shadow of holding, can also prepare and carry out privatisation of state-owned enterprises in such a way that it is not later as if there is no liability. Three. The argument that the creation of holding will increase the transparency of state-owned enterprises and improve the functioning of internal control remains, frankly, incomprehensible. If the Minister has reservations about the internal control of an institution which normally reports to an audit committee set up by the Council, they should be clearly stated. The times when internal control was submitted to the management or CEO of the company have been years old. Taking internal control from the first floor of the floor building to the top floor of the same building does not add credibility. Such arguments that the internal control of the holding's management board will be effectively supervised by the sub-offices, but that the establishment of holding will be, among other things, justified. Here you might rather consider setting up an external internal control unit for state companies, no matter what, it will then be set up at the Ministry of Finance, the Sectoral Ministry or the National Audit Office. For example, the Ministry of Culture has an internal control department over its administration, and life has shown that this work has justified itself. Perhaps the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications could take this example as an example. At the same time, it must be acknowledged, it is also clear that no state can identify a bribe case like the one in the Port of Tallinn, and no state can pay for an endless check. The work of detecting crimes will continue to remain the competence of the relevant and already established bodies. Kristen Michal's current plan for consolidation of transport companies reminds me strongly of apparent activity under the sign of efficiency and control improvement, but in reality it bears the opposite objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U123	Thank you. Do Martin Helme and Andres Herkel have any procedural questions? Speaking on the spot. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U124	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I agree with Mr Palo, but since I am not a social democrat, I must repeat these points from the perspective of the Free Party. The first point of view is that neither I nor the Free Party understand the crazy centralisation that has hit the whole country. In many cases, you can say that okay, it makes sense to put these things together, but on very many occasions we see precisely that things are getting even more expensive and even more opaque, and there are only more levels of management. This is also the case with the consolidation of transport companies. In the Committee on the Detection of Corruption Risks at the Port of Tallinn, we studied, among other things, how to manage the country. Erkki Raasuke, who had been very much involved in the White Paper, said that the best solution for managing public enterprises is that they are as transparent as possible and that their activities are as transparent as possible. When one level of governance is created, it reduces transparency, which is clear to the school child. Even now we have seen the activities and management of the Port of Tallinn by studying how subsidiaries were created alongside the parent company and, although the consolidated annual report was submitted, what took place in these subsidiaries was not transparent, it was not visible. All the tick businesses that we are talking about arise right there on the far side, and that is not to be seen. So, from my point of view and from our point of view, this consolidation in the country will not improve transparency. Another question is whether the audit should take place outside the company, i.e. whether the auditor should sit in the same house or whether the auditor should come from outside this house. There's some questioning here. Okay, right now, internal auditors are under the authority of the council, but in reality, they often sit with the board. There is a problem here that they grow into one another too much and are more in the sphere of management than in the so-called influence of the Council. But it's a matter of leadership. If the board is unable to make an auditor a partner or is unable to act as required by law here, it will be able to lift the auditor anywhere, he will not be a good controller. Now there's this statement that if we consolidate companies, we're about to start a very good cooperation between companies. Let me iron it out, too. If the Port of Tallinn and, let's say, the Estonian Railway were to be placed under one company, would it open up the commercial channels and make the goods move on the railway? No. I would say that what needs to be changed is the failure of the Minister in this area so that the goods can move. There is no need to create new organisations. Perhaps better cooperation, more transparent governance, fewer layers of management and better control are important, also in the form of the Council. The final question is that the Free Party once again smells a fight in the government. This time it is about whether a member of the Riigikogu may be a member of the supervisory board of a state-owned company. Time has shown that the Minister of Finance Sester makes a very clear line, i.e. that a member of the Riigikogu should not be part of it, but the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure is talking about the other way around. So the strength of this fight for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U125	Thank you. Martin Helme, please, speak up!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U126	Thank you. I really do not have a long speech to call it a pretentious speech, and I am not going to go to the remote. I wanted to say that somewhere in this room, a cross should be made, because the speech of the representative of the Social Democratic Party can in any case be accepted. The difference between us and the Soviets is, of course, that they are in the government and we are in opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U127	Andres Herkel, please, speak up!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U128	Mr President! Our most apt question was probably not whether Martin Kukk would become head of the holding company, but indeed what the coalition partners think of the whole plan. I want to thank Urve Palo for answering this question, the Minister did not answer much. As regards the appointment of Soviet members, I think that the Minister could do this now and now. The problem is, rather, that there are obviously elementary standards to do it by, and there is only one standard that everyone understands. This is that the coalition is seeking some sort of balance between the various parties to the coalition. Just because the Reform Party appoints members of the Riigikogu and others do not appoint them does not mean that they are not represented there. When we analyse the Soviet formations, we understand that they are politically oriented councils. These names are familiar to us, there are not only Kalev Lillo, but also very many other people not belonging to the Riigikogu. So I urge you to address this issue. If you fail to manage this consolidation plan as a whole, on the basis of the fact that there is no consensus in the coalition, simply call those members back. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U129	Mart Helme, speak up, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U130	Mr. President! I want to say basically the same thing as I said in the first question, when Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas was on the speaker's desk. We don't need that much bureaucracy. Bureaucratisation does not make the economy more efficient, on the contrary. I now listened to the talk about connecting the port and the railroad to a holding company. There's nothing to do, we have two steps. We imagine that if we create another institution, it will work better, and when we talk about spending, we will always say show us the sources of cover. Growth is a source of cover. In order for the port and rail to be able to carry something, there is a need to produce something and to find trade channels from outside Estonia. But this holding company doesn't do one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U131	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like to speak? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U132	Is there a time limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U133	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U134	Okay, we got this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U135	Plus 3.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U136	Oh, but then I'm going to ask you this plus three right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U137	5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! However, I will correct some of the speeches. I'm coming forward from the back. Mart Helme quite rightly said that it really matters where the goods come from and that these channels count. There is no political production of goods; there is no production of goods with any bureaucratic rules. But I remember the business plan conference. There came a well-known entrepreneur who was asked what his recent activities were. It turned out that it intends to consolidate all its activities, precisely in order to save costs and deliver them together more effectively. It's not unique in the world. If you look at the bill, you can see that it actually gives the taxpayer more income each year. These figures, which I have mentioned, are conservative, 9 to 15 million, plus additional management costs, i.e. internal control, financial management and all other costs. If you say that the taxpayer has money to kick and there is no need to do it, then there is another story. I think it's necessary. There were different speeches. Is there a difference of opinion in the government? There are constant differences of opinion in the government, which is part of democracy. Also in the Riigikogu, it seems to me from time to time, there are different opinions. Different opinions do not mean a quarrel on one, on the other or on the third. A consensus will be found. It took time to appoint a candidate for the Court of Auditors, but he was appointed. Everything happens. Urve Palo, my predecessor, made many different claims. However, I will adjust some so that they do not sound as they are presented. Firstly, the claim that these are sub-offices of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. These are not sub-offices. A private company is something other than a subsidiary. The level of management will certainly generate revenue, provide a strategic view and, as I mentioned, give a conservative estimate of 9 to 15 million. Urve Palo mentioned OECD models. The model described by the Social Democrat Urve Palo is the Lithuanian model. The OECD has said that this is a very bad example. The group model we describe is similar to many large groups in Estonia and to multinational groups. Similarly, the control mechanisms are similar and discussed with the National Audit Office. This model is clearly better than this social democratic idea based on the Lithuanian model. There was a question of whether these companies had a joint role. Yes, it is: transport, infrastructure and transit. Actually, it's a very strong joint. Fleet. Fleet unification, I know, the Social Democrats support. I think this is an important part of this plan, but not the only part. In order to assemble the fleet, a large number of companies need to work together. Privatisation. I'm in favour of privatization. I believe that there should not be too much left-wing in the administration or action of the state at all. That's where we're separated from each other. Privatisation will undoubtedly remain a government decision, no one privatizes anything in passing. But should we be privatized? Yes, it would. That's my opinion. Alternative State Audit Office. I am not in favour of creating an alternative State Audit Office. The National Audit Office is not in favour of this either; there is no such logic. If you ask whether this group is substantive and necessary, I say it certainly is. The value chain for the efficient functioning of companies is precisely what provides business efficiency, provides the opportunity to generate revenue, get new customers and operate successfully. Twice there was a reference to Erkki Kruimeltje. For example, Eesti Energia operates on the principle of a similar group. Erkki Raasuke has told me at least two times that he supports the model we're doing here. He understands its usefulness and is certainly in favour of it. If you want to, ask him. Now, an external auditor. Artur Talvik discussed whether the auditor should come from outside. I agree that there are different aspects. I don't think it's always about inside or outside. But let's just say that if a member of the Council has to take responsibility for decisions made with his or her property, he or she must also have the opportunity to check. That is why I am in favour of what is also a general group logic, in order for control to be in-house. I thought Arthur Talvik didn't mind either. In summation, I say that the common holding company value chain is much more economically efficient, giving the opportunity to provide a number of services together, to act together in different markets and to procure new customers. This company has a stronger financial position, which means that the price of money is cheaper. It is possible to organise joint major procurements, be it fuel or whatever. It is possible to exchange good experiences. We have companies in Estonia where a person goes around with the most modern computing techniques and deals with buildings, trails or whatever. However, we also have companies where sometimes even paper and a pen are rare. This means that good practice must be disseminated. If you ask whether all of this can be done separately, I will say that it will certainly be, but it will be more effective this way, and it will certainly be more cost-effective for the taxpayer. The idea that the government, acting politically, could acquire goods in trade channels is, in my view, inadequate. I have said this many times before, that the Estonian state will certainly not go to the eastern neighbour to ask for transit goods, and I think no one expects that either. I really hope no one expects that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U139	Thank you, Minister. But since the Minister mentioned the name of Urve Palo in the negotiations, Urve Palo is entitled to a rejoinder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U140	Thank you. First of all, as far as the agencies are concerned, I would like to thank you for this remark, in case I said so. I was talking about the companies in charge. But speaking of the OECD example and Lithuania, I honestly find it confusing why the Minister brought them together. The OECD has issued a very large document concerning state-owned enterprises and their functioning principles. I described these principles, it didn't concern any country. What Minister Michal has now brought before us is in some way used in Finland. This is one of the few countries that have been consolidated in this way. The reason is that when Finland was lying down, many companies were in difficulty and the state bought their shares. Then they thought about what to do and put them together in a holding house with the Prime Minister. In this respect, the OECD has said that it is an interesting. He has not taken a position because other countries have not followed this model and we have to think about why they have not. They haven't done it for the same reasons I called it before. As far as financial savings are concerned, having looked at these figures, all I can say is that paper suffers everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U141	Artur Talvik is also entitled to rejoinder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U142	Thank you, President-in-Office. I am still amazed when the Minister for Infrastructure points out that these are private companies. In the case of 100% state-owned companies, the problem appears to be that the legal base under which they were created and transferred to the level of a private company creates a great deal of confusion until the Minister can impose a fine on the company under his administration. It doesn't fit in my skull if that fine comes from the dividends that will be paid back to the state. In my opinion, a legislative basis that talks about these state-owned enterprises would also need a serious review. It should be changed or modernised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U143	Thank you. The negotiations are closed and the answer to the fourth question is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-17_U144	Ladies and gentlemen, who have a desire to continue the debate or to speak on another subject, after the President's hammer strike, it is possible to do so in a free microphone. There are no words. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 6.09 p.m.
