ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I wish all members of the Riigikogu a Happy Women's Day! Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Parliament on Tuesday of the seventh working week. The referral of drafts and enquiries begins. First speaking chair, Küllik's Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U2	Good manager! Dear fellow men, thank you. Today we are dealing with a number of sensitive issues concerning ordinary people, especially landowners. We also come to Hanno Pevkur with an inquiry. Its theme is buying out border countries located in south-east Estonia. The Free Party Group was in South-East Estonia last week, where this issue came up. A great deal of questions have arisen again, which would have been very easy to solve by explaining how and by what methods the land assessment is taking place and what the costs of the negotiations are. For some reason, no explanation can or will still be made as to why the local person cannot pay the market price for the land. It raises questions again and, unfortunately, hatred for our country, which, I think, is unfair. We want to be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U3	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U4	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, We have an inquiry to the Minister for the Interior, because many questions have been raised by the early promotion of a police officer. According to the Police and Border Guard Act, the age of a police officer must be three years from the grade of the junior constable to the level of service of the police captain and four years from the level of service of the police major to the level of service of the police general. But life has shown that the director-general of the Police and Border Guard Board has been made allowances twice in a row, he has not served for four years, he has first become a police colonel, and now a bigger piece of shit has happened. It was only in January that the great scandal was for paying for boots and headphones with a credit card, but the Minister of the Interior rewarded him for it by giving him the rank of police general. On this basis, we have a number of questions for the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U5	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U6	Honourable President-in-Office! Colleagues! On a non-state holiday, I still want women to be able to take men to action and victories. I am therefore going to discuss an inquiry that was withdrawn yesterday, but today it is going to be retransmitted so that women can see that they have not given birth to children in this world for nothing, and the country will work hard and find these 3,000 missing students. That's why we have questions here. How many children in Estonia do not comply with school obligations? What are the main reasons why these children have not reached school? How has the Minister tried to solve the problems? Has the situation improved or not since 2011? It hasn't healed! There's more questions. The question is for Jürgen Ligi. In the light of the EOK President's election, I would say that there could be such a point in the future EOK President's programme as to find missing children, make them exercise and motivate them not to be lost. They're not missing anywhere, they're right here next to us, we just don't notice them. If Ossinovsky fights smoking, he should answer if I ask him the last time he pulled a smoke out of a puberty on the street. I don't think he'll remember if he's ever done it. Have a happy day! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U7	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have received three inquiries on behalf of the Bureau. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now for presence control. 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U8	We are going to the agenda items for today. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like a presentation by Andres Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U9	Mr President! Dear Riigikogu! First of all, let me welcome beautiful women in this room, in this house and everywhere. All the more so, I am pleased to introduce a second reading debate on the law amending the anti-corruption law, because, as international studies show, it is men who are more prone to corruption than women. Let most of them listen. The draft was discussed at two meetings, i.e. on 15 and 22 February. On 15 February Artur Talvik, Chairman of the Special Committee against Corruption, and Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice had been invited to the debate. Several amendments were tabled. The first of these has been drawn up by the Special Committee against Corruption of the Riigikogu. The councillor explained that in the past there has been no distinction between corruption in the public sector and in the private sector in this section, namely § 6, the proposal is to create this distinction. The representative of the Ministry of Justice also stated that the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development OECD published a report a few years ago assessing Estonia's ability to identify and process the case of bribery to a foreign official. The report pointed out that it may not be possible to read from this provision of the Anti-Corruption Act that the guarantees contained therein apply to the reporter of the corruption case even if he is active in the private sector. Therefore, the OECD law recommended that it be clarified and made clearer that this provision also applies to private sector activities. The Commission was interested in whether the terms "private sector' and "public sector' are legal terms and can be used in the legal text. A representative of the Ministry of Justice said that the definitions of these terms have not been given directly, but they have been used in the Penal Code. The Commission also noted that the idea of the Anti-Corruption Act, or KVS, should be to regulate only corruption in civil servants and not corruption in the private sector. The representative of the Ministry of Justice replied that the KVS concerned corruption in the public sector, while in the cases provided for by the law, the scope of the law extends beyond the area of public tasks. In order to verify this, a list of persons who are required to make a declaration of interest may be consulted. The Commission decided to present this amendment, with 5 parliamentarians in favour and 1 against, with 1 abstention. A second amendment has also been tabled by the Special Committee against Corruption in the Riigikogu. It provides for a new paragraph of § 11 of the Anti-Corruption Act. In particular, as explained by the adviser, this proposal concerns cases where a decision or act is to be taken jointly by officials, that is to say, where there is a situation in which at least one official is prohibited from taking an act or decision and cannot be replaced. According to the proposal, in such a case, the official must immediately inform the other officials with a similar task of taking a joint decision or act of that fact and withdraw from taking a joint decision or act. The members of the Commission asked for practical examples of when this situation might arise. The councillor gave an example that if the Riigikogu commission discusses an individual question and one of the members of the committee has a personal relationship with this issue, it should make it known and withdraw from the decision-making process. This does not apply in a situation where a draft law is being discussed, since it is then a general act. The representative of the Ministry of Justice also explained that GRECO, the Association of States of the Council of Europe against Corruption, analysed Estonia's anti-corruption measures already in 2012 and found that there was a gap in them. According to § 11 (2) of the KVS, in the event of a conflict of interest, it must be notified to the superior. If the person does not have a superior, the rule would be that the person informs the co-decisive that he or she is in a situation of conflict of interest and cannot contribute to the decision. The members of the committee asked what would happen if, for example, the Riigikogu commission discussed regional investments within the framework of the state budget, which were proposed by an amendment. The representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that the exception provided for in Paragraph 11 (3) (1) of the KVS applies to the discussion of the general act. Moreover, § 62 of the Constitution, which lays down the principle of the free mandate of a member of the Riigikogu, applies in this situation. The Commission expressed the view that the proposed regulation should not be laid down at all by law. At the same time, the advisor noted that this regulation could apply in a situation where, for example, the appointment of someone takes place and the decision-makers include a member of the family of one candidate. A similar regulation is in § 17 of the Local Government Organisation Act, which also does not apply to general legislation, but to all possible individual acts. The committee also asked that if, however, this regulation applies to members of the Riigikogu, there should be a conflict between the law on the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu, whether the regulation in question is above the law on the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu. A representative of the Ministry of Justice replied that this regulation is certainly not above constitutional law, but it gives a certain direction. The Commission considered that regulation should be clarified so as to make it clear to whom and how a person in a conflict of interest should report that he or she is unable to take part in the vote. A representative of the Ministry of Justice replied that the Local Government Organisation Act provides in similar regulations that if a person withdraws from the vote, it will be recorded. Although this provision does not contain a record requirement, it states precisely that the person must inform the other persons with the task of acting together or making a decision. The issue of formalisation could remain the practice of solving. It was also noted that it is questionable whether this regulation should be in the KVS or in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. The Councillor felt that if this regulation was in the KVS, it would apply in theory to all bodies in the same situation. Interest was expressed in situations where, for example, a person has not been familiar with, or has not understood, the issue being voted on and is taking part in a vote where he or she is not aware of, for example, a conflict of interest. The advisor of the Ministry of Justice replied that if the decision-maker does not know what to decide, the KVS does not have an operating restriction situation. A person can act corruptly only if he or she knows what he or she is doing. The offence of breach of an operating restriction requires direct intent and cannot be a mere negligence. A representative of the Ministry of Justice noted that he also had a proposal for a correction for the debate on this amendment on the text distributed to members of the Commission. One Member of the Commission proposed that the last three paragraphs of the explanation of the amendment prepared for the Commission be left out. He felt that it was not good to have repeated the words 'State Council' or 'local government council' in the explanation of the amendment or in the explanatory memorandum to the draft. It was found that the third paragraph of the explanation justifies where this change comes from and why it is being dealt with, and that the fourth paragraph of the explanation provides a parallel to the Local Government Organisation Act. Following this debate, the chairman of the committee proposed two additions or amendments to this amendment. First, replace the words 'and such' with 'or', second, delete the last paragraph from the explanation of the proposal. I shall report a new text of the amendment: 'Where an act or decision cannot be taken by the direct manager of an official having the authority to act jointly or by a decision, or by a person or body entitled to appoint an official, it is impossible to replace an official, the official must immediately inform the other persons with the task of acting jointly or of taking a decision on the matter referred to in subsection 1 of this section. The quorum required for the joint act or decision to be taken shall be less than that required by law for no other reduction procedure. ' The Commission decided to propose this amendment, with 7 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, and no one opposed it. The third amendment was tabled by the Group of the Centre Party. It concerns the property benefits received and granted by the declarant under § 14 of the Anti-Corruption Act and their declaration in the Declaration of Interests. The representative of the proposed amendment explained that the text of the draft requires the declaration of property and other advantages received and granted with a market value exceeding EUR 4000. According to the amendment, the market value of the asset advantage received and granted must be declared, which is more than EUR 430 or if the total amount of the asset benefits received and granted from a single source exceeds EUR 430 or if the total market value of all the advantages received and granted exceeds EUR 4000. The disclosure of the benefits received and granted will make the declaration transparent. Some members of the Commission considered that the threshold of EUR 430 is too low, as then, for example, bonus points for construction and food shops should also be declared if their value exceeds EUR 430. It was found that it would not be wise for all officials to start declaring their shopping. The representative of the author of the amendment stated that the law must state in very precise detail and clearly which benefits received and granted must be declared by the declarant in the declaration of interest. However, the Commission decided not to accept the amendment. There were 3 Commission members in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. The fourth amendment, like the previous one, concerns the asset advantages received and granted by the declarant and their declaration pursuant to § 14 (2). Firstly, the threshold for the benefit to be declared is amended, i.e. the wage coefficient of 3,0 for senior civil servants. Secondly, it is specified that no benefits derived from the work of the declarant should be declared. Thirdly, the requirement to declare the advantage granted is waived. The debate on this amendment took the longest time in the Commission. The Commission was interested in whether the term'market value' is also used in other public law legislation and in the anti-corruption law in the past. A representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that the term'market value' is used in the current law, inter alia, in the Penal Code. However, the Commission expressed the view that the term'market value' should fall within the scope of private law and be in private law law and not in public law laws. It was found that other terms could be used instead of the term'market value', such as 'total value','size', 'total value', etc. The representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that the concept of market value is of practical significance in the context of this proposal, as the official can decide, taking into account the market value of the items received as a gift, whether or not to declare the gift received. It considered that if the term'market value' was replaced by that provision, it should also be replaced elsewhere in the KVS. The declarants may also wonder what value they would have to rely on in obtaining the benefit. The members of the Commission asked whether, for example, in the case of a leased car, the benefit received should be taken into account at the moment of purchase, or whether it could be allocated to the entire leasing period. It was understood that both interpretations were possible. If the official declares the benefit of the entire car purchased through the leasing procedure, it will no longer be necessary to declare it in the coming years. However, if the benefit is distributed over the entire leasing period, the value of the benefit per year may be so low that it does not exceed the legal threshold. A representative of the Ministry of Justice said that, in his view, the total amount of benefits received should not be taken into account in the law, as this would mean that the person should write down all benefits received during the year. Some of the members of the Commission agreed that the benefits from a single source should be taken into account, while the salary coefficient for senior civil servants could be lower, for example 1.0, i.e. EUR 5200, at the same time. In the case of a weighting of 3,0 the limit would be EUR 15600. However, some members of the Commission found that it was not quite right for an official to receive benefits of EUR 5 000 from, for example, three different sources, but he does not have to declare them. A representative of the Ministry of Justice believed that, for example, when it comes to collecting award points in certain shops, which the public does not have an overview of and for which the person receives, for example, money or other benefits, it is not obvious whether the person receives the benefit as a person or because of his or her status. Thus, in general, not all innocent benefits can be excluded. The Commission was offered to provide only for the declaration of non-market economy benefits and found that the coefficient of 3,0 was still too high. The debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs continued on 22 February. Now only Tanel Kalmet was present as a guest and the same discussion of declaring benefits continued. The text of the amendment, which had been prepared by the Commission, provided that the threshold for the benefits would still be the salary coefficient of 1,0 for senior civil servants in force in the previous year. A representative of the Ministry of Justice found that the lack of market conditions could be difficult for the declarant to ascertain, since it is not always known to the declarant that he received an advantage because of a certain position. From a practical point of view, the interpretation of market failure may raise a number of questions. The Commission found that it may be difficult for the declarant to determine the value of the gift, as he might not know. For example, if a person receives a painting as a gift, he may not know that it is a precious painting. A representative of the Ministry of Justice stated that if a person does not know the value of the gift given to him, the value of the matter cannot affect the decision-making of the person in his or her professional capacity. The members of the Commission found it very difficult to find the ideal option for this amendment, but the option proposed by the representative of the Ministry of Justice, which provides that the declarant must declare an advantage which may affect the performance of his duties, is more reasonable and understandable. In addition, the Commission proposed to replace the word'market value' with 'value' in this paragraph, as this would make the text of the draft simpler and clearer. The new text of Amendment 4 reads as follows: 'The declaration must contain information on the property and other advantages which may affect the performance of the declarant's duties which may be affected by the declarant during the calendar year preceding the declaration, the value of which exceeds the salaries of senior civil servants in force in the previous year by a coefficient of 1,0. ' The Commission decided to propose such an amendment. There were 5 Commission members in favour, no votes against and 4 abstentions. The fifth amendment tabled by the Commission concerns the future disclosure of both income declared in the tax return and dividend income paid out. According to the current law, these data are intended for internal use only; in future they will be public. There were 6 Commission members in favour, no votes against and 2 abstentions. The last amendment, the sixth amendment, concerned the date of entry into force of the law, which will become 1 May 2016. There were 7 members of the Commission in favour, no votes against and 2 abstentions. Procedural decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, 8 March, and to propose that the second reading be closed (this was a consensual decision, as was the decision to put it on the agenda today). When the second reading is closed, we will have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading by 10 March, which was also a consensual decision, and when the second reading is closed today, we will propose that the draft be put to the final vote at the third reading of the day after tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U10	Thank you. You have questions. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I remember that when this bill was at first reading in this Chamber, we had a rather long and meaningful debate, perhaps one of the most meaningful debates ever held on some drafts. I want to hear if that led to anything. There was a huge amount of sound in this Chamber, I am not saying that thousands, but very many interesting thoughts and suggestions during this long debate, which lasted at least four hours. Did any of these proposals and ideas come into this draft either through the Commission or through the amendments proposed by the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U12	Thank you. At first reading, we talked very much about this very issue of declaring concessions. We focused on the general risk of corruption in our society and in the wider world, but we also talked very much about the cap on concessions. I think that is why this debate continued during the preparation of the second reading in the Commission, because there, too, the same threshold, which was initially EUR 4000, was offered a three-fold coefficient in relation to the salaries of senior civil servants and, finally, the mid-way coefficient of 1.0 was found. I think that the debate in this Chamber certainly prompted this debate to continue in detail in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U13	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U14	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'll take my colleague Valdo with my word. Indeed, these thousands of questions and this delay at first reading, which lasted four hours, were impressed. But have you analyzed how many of these hundreds of questions came from the villa in four hours? Did the four hours you were supposed to be standing on this board give the result that you were standing there for?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U15	Thank you. First of all, I do not agree with my colleague's opinion that working in the Riigikogu is a delay in time. We actually went to a lot of trouble here. It was my duty to answer your questions and those were interesting questions. This issue, namely any anti-corruption action, is important in our country. I would like to emphasise once again, as I also said to my colleague, Mr Randpere, that let us remember that we spoke here at first reading on precisely the subject of the cap on concessions. Just a heated argument, good colleague Peter, as you remember, we also continued in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We didn't get to the consensus very easily. This same limit was actually reached through the amendment of the Centre Party and the amendments made by the Commission, and I would remind you again that no one was directly opposed at the end of the debate, with no abstentions, but 5 members of the Commission were in favour. At first, this debate was not so positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U16	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U17	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President! There were only two questions for the rapporteur, but this topic seems dry and uninteresting only at first glance. Let's look at the yearbooks on crime in Estonia. What do we see? Yearbook Crime in Estonia 2009 Let's look there at white-collar crime, including corruption. If we withdraw public authorities such as the police, the kapo, prisons, etc., it turns out that 55% of corruption crimes were committed by public authorities in 2009. By the way, we have a tradition of defaming local governments, even at the level of the president, that corruption resides right there. In 2009, 16% of such crimes were committed in local governments. Yearbook Crime in Estonia 2010: 53% of corruption crimes were committed in state institutions, 16% in local governments. Once again, local governments had three crimes, even more than three times less. Crime in Estonia 2011: the percentage of state institutions increased, it was 57%, it also increased in local governments, reaching 18%. But then something interesting started. There is a great deal of talk about the fight against corruption, but in 2009, 2010 and 2011, at least it was possible to look at it from the Yearbook and get an overview by institution. But if you open the 2012 Yearbook, there are 25 cases for local authorities, or about 12%, but there is already confusion. Crimes are grouped in such a way that it can be accurately read that there were 85 in public authorities, a minimum of 45%, but the rest of them have been written in a way that you do not understand, it is a public institution or a private sector or where it all happened. The 2013 and 2014 Yearbooks are even more funny (the 2014 Yearbook is the last one on this page). If you believe these books, something fantastic happened in local governments in those years. In particular, the 2013 figure fell below 7%. I would remind you that in previous years it was 16%, 16%, 18% and 12%, but this year less than 7% and in 2014, believe it or not, less than 1.5%. You open the yearbook and see that the number of crimes is 355, local authorities and administrations managed by five crimes, less than 1.5%. But what's going on in the public authorities, I can't tell you that, because the distribution is such that it's absolutely impossible to get any information out of it. The question now is that if we set the goal of continuing the fight against corruption, we should perhaps learn from the experience that has been gained over the years. But how do you learn from them if you don't even have statistics? If you are informed that within five years the proportion of corruption crimes in local governments fell from 16% to 1.5%, or more than ten times, then draw some conclusions and explain to us what the reason is. Then we go to the public authorities for this reason and create an analogous situation, so that this figure falls drastically and falls below 1.5%. Since this has not been done, I regret those people who have bothered themselves and compiled these yearbooks on crime in Estonia, because it seems to be just nonsense. The anti-corruption law should contain very specific things. This should include our experience in life, and the debate should in any case take place in the presence of people or with the help of those who are specifically involved in this work. If the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is dealing with this and the next amendment to this law is invented, then talk about your life experience as much as you want. But the experience of life is as follows. I have already told this story, and I will repeat it several times in the coming years. There was this case when the investigation lasted four years, people sitting in a cell for up to 180 days. A situation was created where a person was imprisoned for a week, but his family didn't know where he was. When all this ended after a certain period of time at the Supreme Court, it turned out that there was no guilt and all the decisions that had been taken were invalid and the money had to be repaid. My modest calculations showed that these four years specifically cost Estonia's state budget No one is responsible for this, neither the prosecutor nor the judges. No one is responsible for this. But the person who was under investigation for four years and had to answer in court was that the company, which contracted to repair his apartment, bought construction materials and obtained a discount of EUR 549 by buying a customer card. Now, that was the specific case that this person lost his job, his reputation, and a huge amount of money. A man was taken away as well as a life. If we offer that this responsibility should start with more or less the same amount, if we make the law and want to be equal, then we are told that this amount is too small. I do not have time to explain what the amendment by the Centre Party Group is, but we are asking to support it, because this is not the way forward. If it does not find support, then, of course, the Centre Party Group will not vote against this bill, because afterwards you will explain why you voted against the Anti-Corruption Act. That is, in any case, impossible given the level of our media. However, we are also not taking part in voting on this bill, because it is simply ridiculous, not the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U18	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Six amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them. The first amendment tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to take full account of the decision of the commission. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment, tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, is the decision of the commission to disregard. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U19	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U20	We are going to vote on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the third amendment tabled by the Central Party Group, the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 27 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 46 against and no one abstained. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is to take full account of the decision of the commission. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is a decision taken by the commission to take full account of. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 143. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U21	We are going to the second item on the agenda today. The second reading of the draft Act amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. For a presentation, please, Mr Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee of the Speaker's Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act 155. What, then, has happened between the first reading and the second reading? As a reminder, the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 7 December 2015, the first reading was completed on 13 January 2016 and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 12 February 2016. By the deadline, a member of the Riigikogu, Külliki Kübarsepp, tabled an amendment to the draft, and the Committee on the Environment finalised 11 amendments to the draft. Between the first reading and the second reading, the draft was dealt with twice at Commission meetings: on 8 and 22 February. At the first meeting, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment presented the Ministry's proposals for amending the draft. At the second session, a member of the Free Party Group, Külliki Kübarsepp, presented his amendment to the draft. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment also took part in the meeting and provided explanations on their proposals. In addition, on 16 February, the Environment Committee held a debate on the process of granting protection to natural sites and the planning of protection. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Environmental Board and Surju, Saarde, Otepää and Tudulinna rural municipality participated in the discussion, and the owner of the property in Nõval with representatives participated in the discussion. Let us now review the amendments. Amendment 1 In short, this amendment makes it possible to send the notice of initiation of the procedure for granting protection to the local authority of the location of natural objects and to the owner of the immovable property, in addition to the registered letter, electronically, if the person carrying out the procedure has an e-mail address. Amendment 2 provides for the wording of § 18 (1) to be amended by supplementing it so as to allow for the possibility of applying for nature conservation support to carry out the work necessary for the conservation of semi-natural communities designated by the species and habitat action plan. Amendment 3 provides for the amendment of § 18 (3) of the Nature Conservation Act. According to the new wording, the Minister for the Environment will be able to establish a procedure for the recovery of the nature conservation aid paid to the owner of the immovable property by means of a regulation. Amendment 4 makes it possible to send a letter of intent in addition to a letter of intent by electronic means when the e-mail address is known to the sender of the notification. Amendment 5 According to the current version of the Nature Conservation Act, the habitat action plan will be established by the Minister responsible for the field, but this amendment will empower the minister responsible for the field to designate a person to approve the habitat action plan, such as the Environmental Board or any other institution designated by the Minister. Amendment 6 provides to supplement the draft with a new provision amending the wording of Paragraph 30 (4) (6) of the Nature Conservation Act in such a way that, for defence purposes, the conservation zone (where construction as a general rule is prohibited) can permit, for example, the construction, reconstruction and extension of a new road, a technical network facility or a building without production use. Proposal No 7 provides that the construction ban on the beach and shore does not apply to the installation of a land cable line and to the construction of a utility network and installation in an existing residential building. The amendment allows the construction of a land cable and existing residential area, for example, a land heating system, a well, an electric line or some other technical facility needed for a residential building, without planning. Proposal No 8. According to the current version of the Nature Conservation Act, the Minister responsible for the field will establish an action plan for the conservation and management of the species. This amendment gives the Minister responsible for the field the right to appoint a person to approve the plan of action for the conservation and management of the species, which may be both the Environmental Board and any other institution designated by the Minister. Proposal No 10 provides for supplementing the draft with a new provision amending § 55 (7) of the Nature Conservation Act and introducing into the Act a rule of consideration which alleviates the rules on the protection of specimens in non-representative and atypical populations of species of conservation category II. The 11th proposal is presented by Külliki Kübarsep, a member of the Riigikogu. The proposal provides for the amendment of point 10 of the draft amending § 91 (1) of the Nature Conservation Act and removing from it the date of 1 May 2016 when the protection rules for protected areas and individual nature objects established before the entry into force of the Act will cease to apply if they have not been renewed or revoked on the basis of the law in force. The Committee on the Environment took the amendment into account in substance and changed the date in its next proposal. My colleague Külliki Kübarse's proposal was to set the deadline for 2019; the Committee on the Environment proposed to amend it by 2023, the date is still 1 May. In addition, the Committee on the Environment took procedural decisions at its meeting. It was decided to put the draft on the agenda for Women's Day, 8 March 2016 and to propose that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading of the draft is completed, we propose that the draft be sent to the third reading. Thank you. I'm open to your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U23	Thank you. You really have questions. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U24	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Since I was only able to participate on an occasional basis in the Commission's work, I wonder if you had the same question as I did. This law was adopted in 2004 and a temporary obligation to comply with the protection rules was introduced since 2007. This means that it has been possible to deal with this case for 9 + 3 years. Why have the protection rules not been renewed or revised?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U25	Thank you. A very legitimate and substantive issue. This point was discussed by the Commission at all its meetings. The Minister also had to answer several times the question as to why in the past the deadline was set at 1 May 2016. If we look at the older version of you, you were talking about the year 2007 it didn't say the final date. At the time, in 2007, it was thought that if we set a specific deadline, the deadline would speed up the process and by then work would certainly be done. But now it is true that the works have not been completed and, in cooperation with the Ministry, it is concluded that the realistic time, I stress, for all the protection rules for protected areas and individual nature objects established by law to be adopted is 1 May 2023. We believe and hope that this will happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U26	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U27	Good manager! Good waitress! The question comes from the same opera. In time, 12 years were foreseen for the adoption of these protection rules. My fellow Member, the Hatter, proposed an extension of this period for three years, but the Commission put it like another four years. What's the point? When the Riigikogu starts discussing this in 2023, it would be good to see what estimates they were. Open it up, please! A real master should be able to plan his work. On the basis of which estimates did you set the deadline for 1 May 2023, but not for example 2022, 2020 or 2024?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U28	Thank you. I will reply as Minister Pomerants has said in the Commission, and I quote him. Indeed, as I said earlier, this issue was repeatedly on the agenda and was asked the Minister not once, twice or three times, but more times. The representatives of the Ministry, Eda Pärtel and Marko Pomerants, explained in almost two pages the reason why they considered the year 2023 to be justified here. If we look at the timetable, it's realistic. The Committee on the Environment, using your words, did not simply put more than four years in it, but we were based on what specialists think, who have dealt with this area every day and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U29	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear colleague Rainer Vakra! Don't you think we're on the wrong road with these defenses and we're not getting out of that squirrel wheel? These protection rules will still be hopelessly outdated in ten years, and we will have to make new and new infinity. The problem is that, for example, the coastal people of Pärnu County are still very tuning against nature conservation, because they believe that this means only restrictions and restrictions. Should we not improve the motivation for living in a nature reserve and instead increase the fees for maintaining nature reserves that have been constantly reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U31	Thank you. The Committee on the Environment has also repeatedly discussed how the protection rules can be updated quickly and in substance. It's on the agenda. When we talk about where Estonia's environmental protection policy as a whole has reached, we can really see that there is resentment and there is little environmental awareness when we move around Estonia. There is a clear need to contribute to environmental education, as people seem to have an environmental protection policy designed to bully them. They often feel that a person as a species is completely forgotten. The Committee on the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment are aware of this. We talked about this at a meeting with the representatives of Surju, Saarde, Otepää and Tudulinna, who all referred to what you asked about. In cooperation with the Ministry, we have a real package of ways to make the Nature Conservation Act and nature conservation in the future so that all people in Estonia can understand that all of this is happening for a common purpose and not for bullying one individual. Of course, this also means that defence mechanisms are not private interests of private owners, but must be publicly compensated, whether through land tax received by the municipality or through land-based support to the private owner. Without this, it is not possible to develop sensible nature conservation in Estonia further.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U32	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question concerns Amendments 5 and 8 concerning the approval of the habitat action plan and the approval of the plan for the conservation and management of the species. I understand that this is now the competence of the Minister in charge of the field, and that there will be delegation in the future. The statement of the amendments refers to the Environment Agency. However, what may be another institution appointed by the Minister is not specified here. What's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U34	Thank you. First of all, thank you and I take it as a compliment that the honourable questioner called me Minister. I will work to ensure that this is the case in the future. As regards Amendments 5 and 8, when we look at the extract from the protocol, we see that the Environment Agency has indeed been used as an example. The current Minister for the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment are convinced that certain functions need to be delegated downwards so that there are no disputes between the two houses. This concerns not only the draft law being dealt with here today, but also several other laws provide for the appointment of a minister with the officials of his ministry to make decisions within a single house. For those points concerning § 25 of the Nature Conservation Act and setting out a habitat action plan, they are convinced that this could be done by the Environmental Board. As far as the other designated institution is concerned, the justification was that the Environmental Board may also become another body, for example, it may join another institution and its name may change, and it is therefore not reasonable or appropriate to write into the law in such a way that it is not possible to delegate this task to this new body. The question is well-founded and well-founded.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U35	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U36	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! My question goes into the same hole, namely I am asking about amendments 5 and 8. Have you not analysed or considered whether it would make sense to update the protection rules and to go through this process before looking at whether and how to sub-delegate ministerial functions? In my opinion, the reason for the disagreement is that the Environmental Board has not been able to prove discretion to local people. They do, but they don't count on the local community. These relationships are so nervous that giving power to the Environmental Board, I think, creates even more resentment and more emotion. That doesn't make any sense. Did you consider that too?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U37	Thank you. The separate committee did not discuss it as you asked. However, I would point out that this amendment gives the Environment Board the right to endorse the action plan for the conservation and management of the species. This does not mean that the entire Code of Management will be established by the signature of the Head of the Environmental Board. But as you asked, the Committee on the Environment did not really consider this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U38	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U39	Mr. Waitress! I have so understood that the rules that need to be updated are in the order of 200. If it was found in 2007 that nine years were enough, then it has now turned out that there has been no movement in this area in these nine years. I understand that even at the time of the current Minister Pomerants, there is no doubt that Pomerants is a minister who is fit for every position in the Republic of Estonia in the same way has not done anything. But who are the previous ministers on whom we should say that they did not carry out their duties in this matter? I can't imagine a border guard saying he won't work for the next eight years because he's got something more important to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U40	Thank you. Before we come to the list of these ministers, I quote the good Vice-President of the Commission, Rein Ratas, who, in my opinion, took this discussion, which was indeed long and substantive in the Commission around this year, very briefly. He said that, in view of the introduction of the protection rule, whether it be a critical area, a protected area, it must be said that if the protection rule was to be established by 1 May 2023, no one would prohibit it from being established by 1 May 2017 or 10 September 2016. So this deadline, 1 May 2023, does not mean that these protection rules could not be introduced earlier. In answer to your question about the names of the Environment Ministers, I would suggest that you remove the website of the Ministry of the Environment. I'm sure you'll see those names there with the ministerial resumes and pictures.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U41	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good President! First of all, for the sake of the verbatim, I would ask you to send me these calculations, why it is necessary to add, like, another seven years to this deadline. But my question concerns proposal number six. It says that in the interests of national defence, there can be action in the target protection zone. Here's a very interesting sentence. It is clear that there are habitats that need moderate disturbance. Which habitats in the target protection zone require moderate disturbance? So who's living there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U43	Thank you. First of all, as regards the modification of the deadline, I repeat that almost 200 protection rules have not been established and will under no circumstances be able to be adopted by 1 May 2016. Indeed, the Environment Committee had two versions on the table. First, any period of time may be excluded from the law at all. After all, we all assume that both the ministers on whom the question was personally here, and the Ministry, too, are working as well as they can, perhaps no one will deliberately fail to do anything. So option A was that no deadline at all. Version B was that we're setting a deadline that we don't have to change in this hall. That is why this deadline is 1 May 2023. However, as regards Amendment 6, for specific species, I will reply later in writing. I think your knowledge is clearly greater here than mine.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U44	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U45	Mr. Vakra! It's embarrassing that you didn't say those names. You were here in those years to do policy work, I wasn't. Of course, I can look at it from all sides, but it is important for the report of the Riigikogu, journalists and everyone else. I think you just made a political mistake. But here's my second question. If 200 rules need to be updated, and you probably hope or do not rule out the possibility that you will become a good minister in this area, then maybe we can put together the forces and take the relevant decision or programme in the Riigikogu? Maybe in one year these 200 rules won't really do it, but in two years it should be possible. How do you think you're gonna join in and maybe even take the lead in this event?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U46	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the proposal. The Committee on the Environment will certainly not only keep an eye on this, but will also invite the Ministry to report on how the introduction of these 200 protection rules will go. Let us also think specifically about the wording that you have mentioned. As for this marginal remark and the naming of these names, I apologise if you felt that I answered you inadequately and made a mistake. However, I will stick to my opinion and say that it is not appropriate to appoint previous ministers on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U47	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! We have now learned that there are 200 unestablished protection rules, even though there were seven years. We also learned from you that the Ministry works as it pleases. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U49	Let me ask you a question! I doubt that without a deadline, the ministry would work as it could. However, the question is whether this activity fits within a precise and clear timetable and whether the Commission intends to ask the Ministry. It seems to me that relatively arbitrary setting of deadlines and writing dates into the law is still due to the lack of a clear action plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U50	I hope that...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U51	Thank you. In order to have a clear and understandable red line, the Committee on the Environment finally supported the revised date of the Ministry. I repeat, the Ministry itself saw as the first version that there was no date at all. In doing so, I must say that the Committee on the Environment had exactly the same idea as you, that it is reasonable to add this deadline to the fact that the Ministry really works as it can. The Environment Committee also added this deadline. I reply as I replied to the previous questioner that this issue is certainly so important in terms of nature conservation and conservation in Estonia that the work of the Committee on the Environment will not end after the adoption of this law. We plan to ask the Ministry every year for information and specific figures on how the work has progressed. I'm sure it's gonna be like this. So once again, thank you for your support. I believe that we, too, will work as we can in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U52	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U53	Thank you, manager. Good chairman of the committee! We have heard from you that a package is coming up trying to reconcile people whose actions, in some sense, freedom of action or freedom to conduct a business, are limited by their protected areas and by the actions of the state there. Protected areas are divided into Natura sites and "national" areas. There will be quite permanent compensation in Natura sites. Whether it's fair or not, it's a question of its own. The other side is national protected areas, where compensation is severely inhibited. Does this package also include how to build the 'conciliation process' by means of this compensation mechanism? When can we see this package or hear more about it? To be honest, people are anxious, especially in Läänemaa, where 33% of the entire county territory is a protected area. They always ask questions like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U54	Thank you. People are right to ask. When we look at the Estonian forest, 25% of the forest is protected. Your question also contained part of the answer. Indeed, possible compensatory mechanisms have been included in this package or set of ideas. They are currently being developed by the Ministry of the Environment. We have agreed that we will discuss this in the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu this semester. As far as the content is concerned, one possibility really is to compensate financially. In reality, however, other options can be used, such as the exchange of land, which, because of certain acts of certain persons, gained such a grey shade years ago or could be said to have become a black shade. But if you take away the possible dangers that have come from earlier action and from which we have learned, it is also an option. Of course, as I have said many times, no nature reserve or nature conservation as a whole is the interest of a private owner, a private individual, an individual citizen; it is the interest of the entire Estonian state. If this is the interest of the Estonian state, this interest must also be protected by the Estonian state. If this means financial compensation, it is a reasonable and only possible way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U55	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Hatter, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U56	Good manager! Good ambassadors! You saw that the subject was really emotional. As you can see from the questions, Estonia has developed such a ring, which is largely composed of different restrictions, and it is beginning to contract in terms of its emotional nature. I've told you before about this remote control, how there's gonna be hate speech. This is one example of how a simple thing creates great emotions that are directed specifically against the state. We recall that nature conservation, as such, was one of the signs of the cohesion of our nation during the Soviet era. We held our culture with the help of our nature. Nature was our property and a common heritage that had to be protected. Times have changed, power has changed, but the system has remained the same. We must note that in 1991 the regime changed, but nature conservation as such has not changed. It could be said that Estonia has been through the so-called puberty. This means that the landowner's values have also changed in terms of land use and that he fully understands what is important to protect, but it should also be protected in such a way that the landowner feels that he is a person and is also protected. Reasonable management has completely disappeared from today's culture of debate. That's the biggest reason they're fighting back here. When the Chancellor of Justice came here to stand up for the water mills, he mentioned that he was also having discussions on this issue, and here the Constitution is being seen as a violation precisely in terms of the balance between nature conservation and landowner's rights. In many municipalities there have been workshops to deal with these same protection rules. Perhaps the situation in which the state and local government are in contrast has changed. It's a big deal. It's all about a very simple thing. It's a matter of attitude, of want. If this amendment is adopted, the deadline for reviewing the protection rules will be extended until 2023. For almost 20 years, we have tried to review not only the rules established in re-independence Estonia, but also the rules established during the Soviet period, even the rules on nature conservation established in 1975. The question remains whether and when it could end. Why are we talking about defense rules? The Defence Code is a document that defines in very detail the restricted areas and the possibilities for economic action. There it is assumed that there is the expectation of local people. The Environmental Board has shown not only where I come from in South-East Estonia, but also in other regions the inability to communicate. There is no point in fighting against the word of a simple rural man; it creates misunderstanding and hatred. That is why, of course, I have doubts about Amendments 5 and 8. Above all, we need to get things right and review old things before we can delegate new tasks to the Environmental Board. The Minister is in this case, I think, above all, the one who has the most impartial and general view possible. The Environmental Board is already seen as a great king. Does it make sense to increase this opposition? I don't think that makes any sense. I thank you for the opportunity to contribute to the development of the Nature Conservation Act. Some small contribution has been made. Is the deadline of 2023 really satisfying everyone? I really hope in good faith that the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu is the Ministry's one who is the so-called runner, and if, at the end of March or early April, the Ministry comes up with its own analysis, we will also analyse and demand more from the civil society as ambassadors. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U57	Thank you. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U58	Thank you. The fact that Vakra, a representative of the people, refused to name the names of the ministers he knew on this board is embarrassing to me. This is embarrassing because this remote control is not a place for private conversations, it is a place for public work. Subsequent generations must learn about the verbatim, what actually happened in Estonia and what was thought to be, and today's voters must receive accurate information. That's why I was forced to come here and say a few words. I shall also state the names that I have asked Mr Vakra to say. This non-renewal of protection rules is undoubtedly a scandal. We haven't had a lot of scandals in over 20 years of independence, but it seems to be one of the biggest, if not the biggest. Why it's happened, I don't know. During that time, the minister was three people who should have started and completed this work. At first there was Jaanus Tamkivi, after him Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and then there was a very short time at Mati Raidma. What was the problem? Maybe they'll give the public themselves, but maybe they'll explain whether they didn't think it was right to start this job at all, or what's worse, maybe they didn't even know they had been assigned this task by law, and none of their subordinates drew attention to it, they were uninformed. The third option that comes to mind now I have a blackout, it is also possible that they assessed the situation and saw that they could not get their subordinates and that there was no point in starting work in this direction. Whatever it was, but since such a scandal is at least in my mind, and I think many others are conscious, I call on you to put your head to work and find the fastest and most effective way to eliminate it. It's screamingly unpleasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U59	Thank you. Please, Mark Soosaar!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am more or less certain that there is no man or woman in this Chamber who does not love the nature of his country and who does not put his hands on it or use his mind to preserve it better, so that the species can be preserved, and the person who lives in the midst of nature can feel like a true host. After all, most of us know that some important mandatory figures have been written into the Treaty of Accession to the European Union about how many of Estonia's most valuable landscapes, i.e. coastal meadows, semi-natural communities, wooden meadows, louvenirs, etc. must be maintained and managed. We also know that this number, which shows what we have been able to do, is much smaller. I do not know whether we must wait for the Brussels precepts or the revision of the accession agreement. I hope things don't go that far. Rainer Vakra said here a few minutes ago that most people who live and work in nature conservation or protected nature really feel that the state's aid is decreasing as nature conservation subsidies have fallen dramatically. These grants, especially for the care of semi-natural communities, are intended to enable people to benefit to some extent from the costs they have incurred in maintaining these communities and restoring biodiversity. The 20% tax on these costs is, in my opinion, criminal and even more tuning people who live and work in nature against our nature conservation system. We should look at nature conservation as a mission to preserve national heritage, and it is essential to change the paradigm. These infamous protection rules do not necessarily have to be written in silence in the cabinet; they must definitely be drawn up in the future with those living in the protected area. They need to be asked how they lived here and worked earlier to preserve so many species. These experiences must be taken into account and actually involved, not played formally. I mean, somewhere in the office, the rules of protection are brought to the public for once or in two, and it is said that those who did not raise their hands, who were silent, were therefore in agreement. On the contrary, the creation of a new protected area, as well as the renewal of the protection rules, must begin with the very people, the masters of our country, on whom the preservation of nature and natural values really depend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U61	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U62	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, From what is happening in Estonia's nature conservation, I have already said a little bit here, but that would require a much longer discussion. This dance right now, this redeployment from 1 May to either three or seven years later is funny and sad, it's pathetic. Unfortunately, I did not receive a reply from the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment as to what these considerations were and why this date was chosen. But my speech is short. While continuing the performance of my colleague Jüri Adams, I think that this is a good time for the former Environment Ministers, current colleagues Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Mati Raidma to come to this remote control and to explain why this has happened and to open up these backgrounds to us and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U63	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U64	Honourable Vice-President of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, these last calls must be answered. I will certainly do this more thoroughly after a while, because it will not be possible to find accurate data so quickly. But I recall this process to those Members of this House who were not members of the previous Riigikogu. I reject all the usual passionate moments that are always involved in the reform of the nature conservation rules. They are often very emotional, not always rational. This process is accompanied by passions. This often delays the process much longer than it makes sense. The Environmental Board and the Ministry of the Environment, however, are the ones who need to strike a balance between these different interests and different emotions. I am quite frankly saying that I am taking my hat off in front of those who deal with it every day, because really, opposing interests are very, very much involved in this process, and an exceptionally balanced approach is needed here. For a long time, both the Environmental Board and the Ministry of the Environment expected Parliament to renew the Nature Conservation Act, which allowed for the renewal of all these protection rules. The amendments to the Nature Conservation Act entered into force on 1 May 2013. In the meantime, indeed, the renewal of the protection rules was stuck and longer than it should have been. This is one of the reasons why after May 2013 there was, figuratively speaking, a release from the barrier. Of course, you can imagine that if there are so many rules that need to be updated, it will take time. The latest data I've found in a hurry, I have in mid-May 2014. The situation then was that 20 conservation rules were updated, including the rules on Natura sites, namely Natura sites, which also received national protection, which is important. At this point in time, more than 90 draft amendments to the Rules of Protection were available at different stages of the procedure. This was in May 2014. It is certainly possible to find out the state of play or the state of play for the third reading of this bill, but I did not receive more recent data because of the lack of time. Indeed, this process could be much easier and faster, but nothing can be done, the imposition and review of restrictions are always linked to a variety of interests, as I said. Personally, I think that we could reach an advanced level with nature conservation, say, if we did not need such bureaucratic rules of protection, if there were to be something natural to preserve and protect nature, so that, after a long bureaucratic process, we would not need to stamp the paper. It will probably take some time in Estonia before we get there, but I believe that we all have the opportunity to set an example and move towards it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U65	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. There are 12 amendments to the draft and we are going to review them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the proposal has been fully taken into account. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the proposal has been fully taken into account. The third amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the proposal has been fully taken into account. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the proposal has been fully taken into account. Yes, Amendment 5. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U66	Thank you. On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U67	Thank you. We are going to vote on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the fifth amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 55 members of the Riigikogu), 9 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the proposal has been fully taken into account. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U68	Thank you. The Free Party Group is also asking for the eighth motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U69	We shall proceed to the vote on the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the eighth amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 10 against and no one abstained. The proposal was supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The 10th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 11 has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu Külmiki Kübarsepp, the position of the commission is essentially taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Although the substance of this amendment has been taken into account, we believe that there is a significant difference in substance between 2019 and 2023. However, the Free Party Group is asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U71	Thank you. We are really voting on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 11, tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp, Member of the Riigikogu. The position of the lead committee is to take the substance into account. Please take a stand and vote. 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 12th amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, takes full account of the position of the commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 155. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U72	We are going to the third item on today's agenda. This is the first reading of the bill 183 of the Riigikogu's decision to increase the reserve capital of the Bank of Estonia submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. For a presentation, I would like to ask the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Mr Remo Holsmer. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Holsmer speaks!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U73	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Before you is the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the increase in the reserve capital of Eesti Pank. The purpose of this draft is to enable Eesti Pank to continue to increase its reserve capital by 200 million euros, to a total of 300 million euros. Paragraph 27 (2) of the Eesti Pank Act provides that the Riigikogu decides whether or not to continue increasing reserve capital to equity. In the decision of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank of 28 April 2015 on the distribution of Eesti Pank's profit in 2014, Eesti Pank's reserve capital was equal to Eesti Pank's core capital, or 100 million euros. Eesti Pank cannot decide on the distribution of profit in 2015 until the Riigikogu has decided to increase the reserve capital. By proposing to decide on the continuation of the increase in reserve capital, Eesti Pank addressed the Riigikogu in November last year by sending a letter to the Riigikogu about this. As a result of risk assessments and comparison with the capital stocks of other central banks belonging to the European System of Central Banks, Eesti Pank considers it necessary to increase its capital buffer. Eesti Pank's capital buffer consists of core capital, reserve capital and other elements of the capital buffer. As of the end of 2014, they amounted to EUR 451 million. In its profit distribution strategy, the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has set the objective of increasing the capital buffer of Eesti Pank until it reaches the average level of the central banks of the euro area and takes into account the size of Eesti Pank's participation in the European Central Bank. Eesti Pank considers that a gradual increase in the capital buffer could take place, among other things, through an increase in reserve capital. Eesti Pank also considers that if negative scenarios materialise, the minimum capital requirement should be covered only by reserve capital. The bank in its letter, which I referred to earlier, proposed to increase the reserve capital from the current EUR 100 million to EUR 500 million. According to the Eesti Pank Act, Eesti Pank's losses are covered by reserve capital and, if this is not enough, with the permission of the Riigikogu, the share capital may also be used for this purpose. In addition, the approved articles of association of the Supervisory Board of the Bank provide for a special reserve to be used to cover losses in the first order, which, according to Eesti Pank's annual report for 2014, amounts to 211 million euros. The increase in reserve capital takes place at the expense of the annual profit, at least 25% of which is allocated to it by decision of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. In theory, the Eesti Pank Act also allows for an increase in reserve capital on account of the special reserve, if provided for in the statutes of Eesti Pank. In addition, Eesti Pank allocates 25% of its annual profits directly to the state budget. This has not been recorded in any law as a percentage, but this practice has been going on in Eesti Pank for years and years. Since 1992 Eesti Pank has allocated a total of 133 million euros of its profits to the state budget. From the background, I now come to the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. For the first time, we addressed this issue at the meeting on 16 November last year, when the President of the Bank presented to the Commission the issue of the increase in reserve capital. We also addressed this issue at our meeting on 9 February and 16 February. The discussion of the Commission also concerned the formation and use of the special reserve reserve of Eesti Pank, the comparison of the reserve capital provided for in the Special Reserve and Eesti Pank Act and the role of the Riigikogu in authorising the use of reserve capital and core capital. The Commission stated that these issues may need further analysis in the future, as well as amendments to the Eesti Pank Act. It is recalled that we are currently discussing the draft decision of the Riigikogu, i.e. today's debate does not go on the amendment of the Eesti Pank Act. Due to the increased risks in the euro area central banks' system, the minimum capital requirement assessment and the comparison of the volume of the existing Eesti Pank capital buffer with the other central banks of the euro area, and given that the transfer of the capital buffer to the relative average level of the euro area is a long-term process, taking into account the current profit-sharing practice and the accumulated volume of the special reserve, the Monetary Commission decided to initiate a draft on the basis of which Eesti Pank's reserve capital would increase from the current EUR 100 million to EUR 300 million. The adoption of the law requires a majority of votes in favour. The Commission's decisions, as I have already referred to, were consensual: to close the first reading and set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 22 March, for the submission of amendments. Please support the bill! If you have any questions, I'll answer them. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U74	Thank you. You really have questions. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U75	Good waitress! I tried to figure out what we were doing. I think we are acting sort of like a central bank board, but the problem is that we do not have a central bank first and, secondly, we do not have a council either. On the one hand, we read § 111 of the Estonian Constitution and, on the other, we read the law. I mean, neither this law nor today's decision is working towards the objectives set out in the Constitution. But then again, yes, there are things that are debatable, which is why I ask. I have reservations about any decision to make in the vote, which is obviously very unclear in relation to § 111 of the Constitution. What about this thing? I just don't know if I'm against it right now. You can't be in favor, either. What can we do, and what is the position here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U76	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would like to remind you once again that this is a draft decision of the Riigikogu, not an amendment to the law of Eesti Pank. Possible contradictions to the constitution, I think, should be taken with all seriousness. You have, as far as I know, written a statement on this and sent it to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thank you for that! The Committee on Finance will certainly look at this. I would suggest that you turn to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which will be able to assess the possible contradiction with the Constitution that you referred to. Is it for or against? As of now, I dare advise you to be in favour so that you can finish the first reading and analyse the amendments when they come. I hope you will also receive feedback from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by then.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U77	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! I am interested in the money in Eesti Pank. Whose money is it, is it the money of the Estonian people or the money of the European Central Bank?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U79	Thank you. The money in Eesti Pank belongs to Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U80	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U81	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The previous answer was, of course, very exhaustive and clear. We didn't even know who the money belonged to. Is Eesti Pank money Estonian taxpayers' money or the European Central Bank's money? Who's in charge of this money? It's an impression from the previous answer, but my question is something else entirely. What is this reserve for, what are the risks that this reserve has to hedge?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U82	Thank you. First of all, the question of this money. Eesti Pank is a constitutional institution and Eesti Pank has made capital contributions to the taxpayer of Estonia. If you want to extend this concept by asking whether Eesti Pank belongs to the people, then you can really do so in folklore. Now for the use of reserves. In particular, the potential losses of Eesti Pank will be covered by reserves. If you ask what they are designed for, I say that if Eesti Pank loses, this loss will be covered by reserves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U83	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U84	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good waitress! We have been talking about this in the Commission. The previous question has already introduced the issue of what these causes of losses could be. If I have asked the representatives of Eesti Pank about this, the answer has been that the main source of losses may be the crisis in the euro area, and more specifically the obligations relating to Greece, which come to us because of the participation of the European Central Bank. Why don't you enlighten the wider public and also the hall that these sums are, what is the risk we have, are we talking about 100 million or 300 million euros that Eesti Pank will have to make losses under the so-called black scenario?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U85	Thank you. Of the sums to be paid when either Greece or another country of the European Union is going bankrupt or unable to meet its debt obligations in the long term, we did not specifically talk. Nor did we talk about the proportion that other European Union countries should jointly and severally cover or which Eesti Pank should cover. It would probably make sense to come back to that when the situation is at hand. Right now, they're purely speculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U86	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U87	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The Governor of Eesti Pank said that we are talking about 300 million euros. You were also there at the committee meeting, you should still remember that. It is a true virtuosity of how you have presented this bill here without you having spoken half a word about why we should collect this reserve. But I'm asking you something else. The euro rate is falling all the time, the money we put in the fund is falling quite quickly. Would it not be more meaningful and proper, rather than raising money for Greece here, spending what is necessary in our society, whether it is an increase in child support and the pay of teachers or spending this money for our security? Otherwise, it just disappears in the drawer or goes to Greece, as it was said here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U88	Thank you, Mr President. We are not talking about the decision of the Riigikogu to direct taxpayers' money to Eesti Pank's reserve capital. Since the Riigikogu has now established the reserve capital of Eesti Pank to be 100 million euros and this 100 million euros has been filled, Eesti Pank cannot decide on the distribution of profits and channel this money into the reserve. This is a formal reason why Eesti Pank turned to the Riigikogu to increase reserve capital and to be able to channel 25% of its annual profits, which I think was 17 million euros last year, to the reserve capital. I hope that the reason why Eesti Pank has approached the Riigikogu with a proposal to increase capital is understandable. I would like to stress once again that we are not directing Estonian taxpayers' money to Eesti Pank's reserve capital. Eesti Pank makes a profit and directs 25% of it to reserve capital. It is now reached that 100 million euros, which is the limit allowed by the decision of the Riigikogu, have been filled. If in any year we reach EUR 300 million in X, provided that the decision proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs to respected MPs has been taken, the Riigikogu will discuss again how much reserve capital should be increased so that Eesti Pank can legally and legally direct a certain amount of its annual profits to the increase in reserve capital, no matter how large at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U89	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Is it possible to inform us of how quickly this reserve capital gathers to give some time dimension, even theoretically?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U91	Thank you. In 2014, Eesti Pank's profit was 17 million euros, and a quarter of it, or 4.3 million euros, was transferred to reserve capital. Quarter, I stress, was also assigned to the state budget. This is not provided for anywhere in the law, but the practice is that a quarter of the reserve capital goes to the state budget, a quarter goes to the bank's various so-called special reserves. If we assume that the profit is more or less at the same level and the quarter equivalent is EUR 4 million, then in 25 years we will reach EUR 100 million. From there, everyone can carry on with thought exercises and calculations as they feel better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U92	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U93	Thank you. Good colleague! I understand that by increasing reserve capital, we are preparing ourselves for what negative scenario. Am I right that the economy is in difficulty and Eesti Pank is preparing itself for these difficulties?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U94	Eesti Pank will certainly increase reserve capital in order to mitigate the risks arising from the capital injection. This is the logic whereby other central banks in Europe have already increased their capital buffers and reserves. In comparison with other countries, Estonia's reserve is rather smaller. The comparison between national budgets and national monetary policies is also very conservative. Similarly, there is also a bank where reserves rather need to be kept and, where possible, raised in order to be prepared for times when these reserves may be needed for some very important socio-economic crisis situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U95	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U96	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's still talk about the pink elephant in the room. We cannot infinitely support the expansion of buffers and reserves if we know at the same time what I myself have asked the Governor of Eesti Pank about. He has roughly replied that it is very difficult to estimate, but if Greece goes upside down, Eesti Pank will get a hit with 300-350 million euros on the price tag. So if we put more and more money in our stockings here, we actually know what we're collecting these reserves for. That's the point. The second problem is that some time ago, EUR 100 million was set as the limit, and now we are setting the limit at EUR 300 million. When we get it full, what are we gonna do next? $500 million or a billion? Where do we keep this money? I think, however, that we could think that this money could come into active use in the Estonian state budget, there is no need to put it aside all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U97	Thank you. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U98	Do you mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U99	This is your right as a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U100	Thank you. I am forced to respond to this speech. Just as companies direct a certain percentage of their annual profits to the reserve, in this case Eesti Pank will also direct 25% of its annual profits to the reserve. The logic that you represent here at the moment is that the reserves of Eesti Pank should be emptied and the money should be spent somewhere. This is not in any way consistent with common sense. That was a comment to Mr Helme's speech. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U101	Thank you. There are no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 183. I will set the deadline for the submission of 183 amendments. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U102	Let's go to the fourth item today. The first reading of draft 147 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party begins. I ask Olga Ivanova, Member of the Riigikogu for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, there are still cases in Estonia that newborn children are deprived of parental care. This is because, for some families with lower incomes, childbearing is merely a source of income. Poverty is an important factor that hinders a child's decent life. According to Statistics Estonia, 10.1% of children live in absolute poverty in Estonia. Child poverty is a painful issue that should not only concern children who are victims of poverty but also parents and other members of society who are responsible for children. It is therefore necessary to exclude situations where parents plan to have children solely for the purpose of receiving social benefits. The problem with the health surveillance system for children in Estonia, especially young children, is that, while family doctors are obliged to monitor children, parents are not obliged to bring children for observation. The system is built solely on parental responsibility. Family doctors, on the other hand, must follow the instructions for monitoring children's health, which specify in detail which stages of their childhood are to be examined. According to the Health Board, there are situations where the newborn is not listed by a family doctor for months. According to family doctors, there are plenty of young children in Estonia whose health and development they do not have an overview of. The Ministry of Social Affairs itself has also stated that such a problem exists. One possible solution to the problem is that the Estonian Association of Family Doctors sees that only parents who regularly check with the child could receive public and local benefits. As a result, we propose to the Government of the Republic that a set of measures be put in place to link the national parental benefit to the child's medical examination. The media recently received a regrettable case of a child in a child hospital who was in a critical state of nutrition problems, a child of only six kilos weighing and had to be raised for several months. Since she had six children before, all the skinny ones, she did not think that the youngest child was skinny because of a serious illness. Such a case is extremely regrettable and could also have been prevented. The problem could be solved if the parental benefit was linked to the child's medical examination. This would give parents the incentive to take the child to a doctor, and the doctor would in turn have an overview of the health and well-being of the children and the possibility of preventing health problems in young children. Examples of other European countries can be cited here. In Austria, for example, universal child benefit is a condition for the future mother's obligation to meet ten times in a health check. In Hungary, a universal birth grant is paid when a woman has had at least four medical examinations before childbirth. The health programmes of Finland, France, Luxembourg and Great Britain also include some conditional elements on which the provision of universal and universal services depends before and after the birth of a child. The idea of the Ministry of Social Affairs was to make a family doctor or family nurse's home visit mandatory, but so far it has not been done. The Centre Party Group will certainly support this idea, but we believe that our initiative will have a more motivating effect on parents, especially economically disadvantaged parents, because parental benefits are money that parents take into account every month. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about the most valuable asset of our country. Every child deserves a chance to live as long as possible. I therefore ask that we consider our proposal particularly carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U104	Honourable Riigikogu! Before we go to the questions, I would remind you that it is possible to ask a question to both the representative of the initiators and the rapporteur of the Commission. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U105	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Your proposal is very clear and logical. But the question arises as to why you are so unambiguously linking this to child poverty. After all, there are many poor families where parents are very conscientious and see a doctor with their children properly. There are opposite situations. We can increasingly read about cases where relatively wealthy people completely ignore "traditional" medicine and deliberately shun it. Why are you speaking here in the context of poverty? It is actually a question of other attitudes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U106	Thank you for your question. Indeed, parents often feel that their children do not need to be placed on the family doctor's list or taken to medical check-ups, even in materially well - insured families. So in itself, yes, I agree that this is also a problem in different families. However, this draft concerns parents at risk, so let's say, who do not consider it necessary to show their child to the doctor, because parental benefit will fall into their account anyway. Surely, with this bill, we do not want to make it any harder for parents who really take a careful look at their child's development and see a doctor as well. I think most parents will certainly understand that this is very important for the child, especially during the first year of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U107	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, You brought out some very serious cases in your report. But don't you think that municipal child protection workers or social workers can solve these situations with their own active activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U109	Thank you for your question. If you are a little familiar with the municipal budgets, you know how much the burden is on child protection workers in particular at the moment. My experience tells me that they certainly do not have this ability. They may, yes, go to the door and knock, but if parents don't open, it's very hard to do anything. Unfortunately, we have to admit that it is often the money that drives these people to move, forces the child to register and go to medical checks with him at least once a month. In my opinion, there are two solutions to this problem: one is the option we have proposed and the other is to make home visits compulsory for family doctors or family nurses.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U110	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Estonia is indeed a small country and every child is very important to us, so we cannot allow any child to lose parental care. You said that the draft was intended for parents in the so-called "risk" category. First of all, I would like to know how big this risk group is estimated to be. At the moment, it seems to me that we want to call a relatively small number of parents to order, but we place such an obligation on a much larger number of parents, or everyone. I also believe that most parents are fulfilling this obligation anyway. How big is this risk group? Can we consider some measures that do not affect all parents?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U112	Thank you for your question. As was the case at the Commission meeting, this number is, yes, indeed, relatively small. But you said most parents would do it anyway. There could be such a technical solution that an official of the Ministry of Social Affairs, or one who transfers parental benefit to the parent's account, can see in the IT system whether the parent goes to a doctor with his or her child once a month or every two months. It was also mentioned in the Commission that the Ministry of Social Affairs has taken action in this direction. But, as I know, this bill was also in the debate during the previous Riigikogu, but no action was achieved. Unfortunately, it has to be said that there are two options: either linking it to financial motivation, or the family doctor has to start going home on his own.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U113	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U114	Thank you. I will continue with the previous question. Indeed, this measure applies in this case to all children and parents. Would you clarify clearly what this fact of confirmation is about? Is this limited to making sure that the child is on the list of family doctors? Do you need to see a doctor or, on the contrary, does the doctor go to the child himself? What do you think this solution should be? What is the fact that gives the base? The most ridiculous thing would be for people to start seeing a separate doctor just to get that confirmation. Another question: what happens if the family doctor is not temporarily present? When we answered our questions yesterday, we discussed quite a bit about the fact that family doctors in Estonia are having problems at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U115	Thank you for a good question. I would see this technical solution in such a way that two information systems are integrated, where the family doctor determines that the child has been with the parent or has been in contact with the parent, and the family doctor is aware that the child is well. At first, he or she will surely have to put the child on the list and then visit the doctor. In my opinion, the fact that a parent is attending a family doctor with his child is a sufficient basis for transferring parental benefit. The second question, I fear, is not for me, but for the Minister. Indeed, what if there is no family doctor in the area?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U116	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Can you repeat how those who have the greatest and most daily contact with this problem view this proposal, perhaps family doctors?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U118	Thank you for your question. This was the proposal of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors to attach either parental benefit or local benefits to the fact that the parent shows his child to the doctor every month, especially during the first year of the child's life.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U119	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U120	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress and initiator! All activities and discussions concerning children, their timely sighting and their health are well appreciated. But you have linked a medical examination to a parental benefit that ends in a year and a half. What happens next? The child is known to grow long, but now it's a year and a half, and then it doesn't matter if you're seeing a doctor or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U121	Thank you for your question. The first year is the most dangerous age for a child. Most doctors, as the GMP said, think that it is very important that a child of this age gets to the doctor. Indeed, when parental benefit ends, it is up to parents to worry about the health of their children. But it would still be a motivation not to show the child to a family doctor at all. When we talk about parents at risk, it may eventually come to the point that a mother is a drug addict or both parents are drug addicts, and then a child is taken away from her parents at all. I think this is also a very important measure to teach parents, because often young mothers with some addictions simply do not know how to do the right thing. However, it is important to them that the money that comes into each month's account may only be a minimum wage for these mothers, but it is still very important to them. Perhaps it would help to make a habit so that the mother would continue to show the child to the doctor and worry more about her child.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U122	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U123	Good manager and waitress! If family doctors have already advised us to make such a connection that there is no money until you show the child to the doctor, and since the first year and a half is a sign for the development of the child, we should not object to this measure, and children are already able to look for them with matchlight. But I may not have heard well, and therefore I ask how many such children there may be and how many of them there may be in Lasnamägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U124	We do not have the statistics, but it was in the debate in the Commission. The Social Security Department officials thought this figure was relatively low. But I think a normal, caring parent does it anyway, as we discussed here. The aim is rather to oblige parents who are at risk to take care of their child so that they do not reach the point that society undertakes to raise the child, as I have pointed out, that the mother will eventually be deprived of the right to raise her child. Yes, this figure is not high, but I think it is entirely possible, with this measure, to motivate these parents to care for their children. Certainly, the purpose of this bill is not to make life difficult for ordinary, caring parents. Here was a question about parents who simply decided that they would not show their child to a doctor. These parents are not at risk, they are financially insured. However, at least the doctor knows that the family is well and that the young mother knows how to deal with her child. Here was an example of the birth of the seventh child and the skinny. That's why the mother didn't think the seventh child was sick. It shows that even this is not an indicator of how many children there are, because it is not the case that then the mother knows and knows everything. I think this is a very sensible measure that we could adopt.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U125	Thank you, Olga Ivanova! No further questions. The rapporteur for the Social Committee is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U126	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu to propose to the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 26 January. Katre Pall, Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Heli Paliste, Head of Health Network of the Health System Development Department, and Olga Ivanova, representative of the Central Party Group were invited. The representative of the initiator presented to the Commission the proposal of the Centre Party Group to initiate a legislative amendment linking the parental benefit to the medical examination of the child. He explained that linking the payment to the health check would motivate the parents to see a doctor with the child. This would also mitigate the risk of neglecting a child's health problems. The problem with the health surveillance system for children in Estonia, especially young children, is that, while family doctors are obliged to monitor children, parents are not obliged to bring children for observation. According to family doctors themselves, there are plenty of young children in Estonia whose health and development are not known. One possible solution to the problem is that the Estonian Association of Family Doctors sees that only the parents who regularly check with the child receive public and local benefits. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs then received the floor, who briefed the Commission on the Ministry's analysis of the possibilities of linking the payment of family allowances to health checks. The analysis focuses on children's pre-school years and aims to achieve a situation where all children can reach health surveillance and children need help in the field of vision of child protection workers. According to a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, care should be taken to exclude subsidies, as this does not always guarantee the desired result and can lead to the opposite result. Therefore, preventive and supportive options should be considered, as if the family were already struggling to cope, the suspension of benefits would make the situation of the child even worse. Finally, he added that the monitoring system proposed by the Ministry had been approved by the government and is currently being developed. To the question of the Member of the Commission about the size of the risk group, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that there could be some 200 to six-year-old children like this. He added that according to the Health Insurance Fund, about 200 children who have not been to the doctor have been identified, but the records of the Health Insurance Fund are based on medical bills and it may have happened that medical bills have not been sent simply. There may also be children who have left Estonia but are still listed in the population register and in the list of family doctors. The incidents reported by family doctors to the child welfare system are isolated. It also asked why in many other countries of the European Union the receipt of benefits and the payment of social assistance funds depended on certain conditions. According to a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, it has also been examined which benefits are linked to health checks in other countries. In most cases, they are either one-off birth grants, social assistance benefits for risk families or benefits paid to a certain age of the child, for example, until the age of three years. This is never the universal child benefit that every child is entitled to. Nor is there any country where the parent's replacement income would have been taken away. It should be stressed that the term "parent' in the name of the state parental benefit includes the word "parent', but basically it is intended to provide financial support to the child. Parents' sloppyness or lack of duty cannot be a reason to deprive a child of his or her benefit. Loss of support may lead to the opposite result instead of the desired result. The suspension of the allowance will further worsen the situation of the child in families which are already struggling to cope. In my opinion, there should be an automatic monitoring system in place, so that women who are going to give birth should be on account of the family doctor and, after giving birth, this family doctor should be immediately informed of the birth of a new weatherman. If the mother or father has not taken his child to the family doctor within one month of the health check, the family doctor should immediately inform the child welfare officer of the municipality. The job of this employee is to find out what the reasons why the child has not been visited by a family doctor. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose a final vote on the draft. The law requires a majority of its component members to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U127	Questions for the waitress. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My sons were born in the 1980s. We were still part of the system at the time when there was a certain schedule for going to the hospital with children (very often in the first year, after less often), when the nurse visited us, when the injections were to be made. Everything was on schedule. It was a state system. There was no way to get out of it. However, I did not understand what the Commission's position was when you spoke as a representative of the Commission. Can it be understood that we are going to build a state system so that the child's health check begins right after birth and is systematic and compulsory? If so, when will it be? Or is it just what it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U129	Thank you for your question. Today, we believe that there must be a clear monitoring system. Care should be taken to ensure that all the world's citizens who are born here in Estonia have been subjected to a medical check-up at the right time and have been visited by a family doctor. I hope that in this semester this monitoring system will reach so far that it will also apply and that all family doctors will know as soon as some of the women on their list have a new weather citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U130	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U131	Thank you. Good waitress! You just proposed a lot of solutions. They have not been proposed before, and this issue has also been under discussion in the Commission. Then why haven't we done this thing? After all, the ministerial portfolio is in your party's hands, and this idea was once very much supported. It's been a couple of years, but it's still the old way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U132	Thanks for the question, Marika. I can't answer why this hasn't been done before, but at the moment I can tell you that this monitoring system has been completed in the Ministry, and it's in the coordination circle right now. I hope, as I said before, that this system will soon and soon also be implemented and the problem will be resolved. Surely the solution is not just to be taken away from someone. If support is taken away from a rich family, nothing will happen, but if it is taken away from families that are already hard to cope with, it will cause even greater difficulties.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U133	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U134	Good President of the Riigikogu! Good Aivar! Why don't you tell me what the monitoring system for young moms is finally gonna be like? 200 don't know where a child vanished to is actually a very large number. Will this monitoring system finally get nails in the back for those 200 children between six years old who don't know where?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U135	Thank you, Peter, for the question. I will explain again the point of the monitoring system. Every Estonian citizen should have his or her family doctor and, if not, he or she will be assigned a family doctor on the basis of where he or she is registered. When a new weatherman is born, the family physician is informed that one good person has come to his list. Within a month, the family doctor must monitor whether the mother or father has come to the family doctor with his child or not. If not, the family doctor must inform the child welfare officer of the municipality whose duty it is to go and see why the child has not been brought to health. If this system worked now, it would not be possible for us to know whether these 200 children have moved abroad with their parents or whether the parents really do not want to see a doctor for some reason, or if there is another reason, such as laziness.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U136	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U137	Thank you, Mr President. A lot of systems would work now if they hadn't been broken down in their time. Chairman of the Commission, I have a question for you. Is it not appropriate, however, to restore outpatient paediatric service as it once did? It worked really well, didn't it? The family doctor isn't very interested in young children; he has his own list, right, no matter what, there is now one person more or less. But the pediatricians, who had been trained, followed the infants since birth, dealt with them, made sure that the injections were done in time, etc. All these things worked, didn't they? What do you think, as chairman of the committee, should not this system be restarted?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U138	Thank you, Viktor, for a good question. The Estonian state moved to the family medical system decades ago. In the family medical system, it is very clear that when a citizen arrives in this world, he will be listed on the same list of family doctors as his mother, regardless of the size or size of the list. There is no way a family doctor can refuse to take this child on his list. Was the former system good? I'm sure the former system worked well too. But I have three daughters in my family, and in my experience, I say that our family doctor has always done well with children. It is also a matter of parental responsibility, isn't it? Do you always have to fine and take something away? The rapporteur said very rightly that money is motivating, but knowing the economic situation of many families, I would argue that taking away money could lead to a situation, I know this because I myself am the initiator of an orphanage and I also act there, where many children will eventually have to be taken away from the family, because they are better off in an orphanage than in my own family.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U139	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U140	Thank you. Good colleague! I was a little amazed by the Social Ministry's response that these children could be 200, 300, or 400. It means the system is rotten, and it hasn't been rotten for a year. But if the proposal made by the Centre Party does not please the Social Affairs Committee, then perhaps we will start with the Social Affairs Committee. You're the chairman of this committee, so start this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U141	Thank you, Valeri, for a good question. I can also read for the third time a proposal coming up at the Ministry of Social Affairs on how the new monitoring system will work. A monitoring system wouldn't take money from any family. We have very good child protection staff. Maybe somewhere on the ground, this system isn't working well, but as far as I know child protection personnel, I can tell you they're doing their job with their hearts. Let me give you an example. Last week, a young mother on Facebook wrote that she didn't have any food money. When I called this municipality's child welfare officer, it turned out that he was worried because this family had somehow disappeared, they had gone to live in another municipality where they had not been registered. We solved the problem in ten minutes. It is always important to notice when someone next to us has problems or problems. But I don't personally think that we should take away the little money that families need. This is certainly one of the simplest ways of influencing these families, but I believe that we have good family doctors and child welfare workers who are doing very well in their work. If the number of these children is 200, I think that if you take over Estonia, on average there is one such child in each municipality and so much time for municipal officials to deal with this one family. Once again, as far as I know, people working in the social field and in child protection are all very heartfelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U142	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Good front speaker! Over 10% of Estonian children live in poverty. One of the reasons for this situation is that Estonia has not ruled out a situation in which parents plan to have children solely for the purpose of receiving social benefits. What solution do you see in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U144	Thank you, Siret, for a good question. It would be easy to answer that this was not discussed in the Commission. [[Laughing.]] The Committee on Social Affairs certainly does not make decisions about how someone plans their family to succeed. We certainly can't put a hand in front of everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U145	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U146	Thank you. I have a follow-up question for Dr. Vassilyev. It is now 2016. I ask the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu whether you think, Mr. Chef, that pediatricians should be prepared again in Estonia. More or less the same government coalition that is now in power destroyed the preparation of pediatrics at the University of Tartu; they are no longer prepared; it was completed in the 1990s. At the same time, there are separate doctors everywhere in the world for older people, especially for very old, middle - aged people and children. It is not normal for a family doctor to treat and study children in Estonia. Maybe you'll get into that question. You praise that we have all the very fine children's educators, and I agree with that, and family doctors are also great. But in fact, pediatrics should be separate, such is world practice. Would you answer me? Do you think we should start preparing the pediatricians again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U147	Thank you for a good question. I am happy to reply to you that the Social Affairs Committee has been working on this matter only recently. Of course, the field of paediatrics and training in this field is very important at the University of Tartu. The study programme of the Faculty of Medicine has also included the paediatrics' side. Whether it's enough or not, there's still a question. We will certainly discuss and examine this in the near future. Unfortunately, the last time we discussed this in the committee, the people of the University of Tartu were unable to participate, but all other interested parties were present. Members of the Commission shared the understanding that paediatrics are important and that there should be at least one person with such training in each region.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U148	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Building this system is certainly a necessary step. However, the monitoring system proposed and the solution proposed by the draft do not, in my opinion, exclude each other; they are rather complementary. Don't you think that, as the previous waitress mentioned, the proposed solution will simply work faster and better for those groups at risk who are still the best motivator with the same money as each month?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U150	Thank you, Dmitri, for a good question. I repeat myself. Loss of support may lead to the opposite result instead of the desired result. The suspension of the allowance will further worsen the situation of children in families which are already struggling to cope.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U151	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Family doctors, or people who deal with these problems daily, consider this solution to be the most effective, supportive, and offering it as the most effective option. For what reason do you tend to trust ministerial officials rather than family doctors?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U153	Thank you for a good question. There's something wrong here. The very clear position of our Commission is that a very good and proper monitoring system must be set up, which will ultimately cost the country nothing. We have not been able to read clearly anywhere, such as family doctors suggest that family benefits, child benefits or parental benefits should be taken away from their families. If you see such a thing anywhere, or if you have a joint approach by family doctors, please give it to the Commission. The Commission does not have such paper. On the contrary, family doctors, I believe, very clearly support the idea of the monitoring system that we have offered in the Commission and which the Ministry of Social Affairs is currently dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U154	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Marika Tuus-Laul Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U155	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this question should have been resolved a long time ago. At the moment, when standing in front of this hall, you can no longer ask whether it is all about poverty. Clearly, when people do not go to doctors with their children and care about them, the family is not well. There are certainly food shortages and poor living conditions, at least very often. We all know these cases. When asked why we want to take something away from someone, I'll tell you we're not taking anything away from anyone. Go to a doctor with your child once or at least register him or her with the family doctor list so that the family doctor can come home to see the child, only so much needs to be done. So we don't want to take anything away from anyone. In fact, the family doctors themselves have raised this issue. They're the ones who see the problem here, not us taking anything away from anyone. I don't think going to a medical checkup is gonna take anyone off, that's a normal thing. This whole issue would have been resolved a long time ago if we wanted to take it seriously in this Chamber. We remember that Margus Tsahkna was the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and a member of the government department in the previous composition. Then the exact same thing was discussed, exactly. Mr Tsahkna came to this hall and said that this is the very, very right subject, that he fully supports it, that this problem needs to be resolved and that they are about to deal with it. He thanked the Centre Party, which had brought this issue here, and also said that it should be re-established to check on young children by family doctors or, at least, by family nurses. Very normal! We remember years ago it was always like this. Many of us have grown up during this system. Margus Tsahkna also said that this would ensure a child's health check and see the situation at home. Perfectly normal! But Margus Tsahkna is now a minister and we see that over a year has passed, but still nothing has been done. Nor did it turn out in the Commission that something was being done directly. We hear that a monitoring system is being made again and the situation is being mapped. In essence, every question in this Chamber is answered in this way. That was the case at the time. Margus Tsahkna approved it all nicely, sat in his seat, and when the question came to the vote, of course he hid behind the door and did not vote. I'm afraid it might happen again. I call on all of you to take this decision. Then the government can do exactly as they like: link the medical examination to any benefits or make arrangements for doctors to go home. Anything, but let's make a decision to move this issue forward. How long are we just gonna talk about doing a monitoring system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U156	Vilja Toomas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U157	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, recognise the problem that some parents do not take their children to medical examinations, but unfortunately, with the draft proposed by the Centre Party, we will not solve this problem. The reasons for not linking parental benefit or other family allowances to medical examinations are as follows: Firstly, the suspension of benefits does not ensure that the child reaches the health check; rather, such a measure takes the means of subsistence from a child who needs it vitally. Secondly, information about children in need does not reach the local self-government and so the state is not in a position to help the parent to fulfil the role of raising children, which is, of course, a priority for the parent. Rather, I, too, support the creation of a much-spoken'monitoring system', through which children who have not been subjected to a health check are found and directed to this check. The system itself could, in my opinion, have the following stages. It is the Health Insurance Fund that monitors the health check-ups of children on the basis of medical bills. At certain intervals, children who have not undergone a medical examination shall be notified to the family doctor. The family doctor can then invite the child to visit and if the child does not go to the health check or contact the parent, it is considered to be a case of a child in need and the child protection officer of the municipality is involved. It is the responsibility of a child welfare officer to assess the child's and family's livelihood and to provide family assistance, as well as to ensure that the child reaches the doctor's health check-up. The child welfare officer can then give feedback to the family doctor about the case. Yes, of course, the prerequisite for the successful functioning of this scheme is that all children are put on the list of family doctors after birth, which in turn makes it possible to react if the child does not reach a health check. To sum up, such a solution will ensure that children who have not been subjected to a health check reach the local level of child protection workers who can intervene and provide assistance if there is a need for assistance. The same scheme allows family doctors to direct children who are in need of parental care or who are still in need of medical care to the child welfare system. Family benefits will be stopped only if it becomes clear that the family is not entitled to benefits in Estonia. By the end of 2017 the Ministry of Social Affairs has appointed the third quarter of this system, although some components, such as the listing of family doctors, have in fact already been decided by the Ministry. For these reasons, the Reform Party Group does not consider it necessary to support the draft, as there is a similar principled decision and work in the Ministry of Social Affairs. The adoption of this decision would in no way speed up the functioning of the whole system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U158	Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U159	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, let me take a little look at this subject. The number of children up to 17 years of age in Estonia is constantly decreasing. While there were nearly 416000 children in the 1990s, there were only 243600 children in early 2014. Demographers have warned that the climax of the so-called small generation will reach Estonia in five to seven years when there are few women in active childbirth. In order for the Estonian population to last and be sustainable, it is necessary that about 17,000 children are born in Estonia a year, and now the number is less than 14000. This means that every woman should give birth to an average of 2.1 children, but now there are only 1.56 children per woman. This sad statistics leads us to conclude that in fact, every child is worth gold and deserves special attention from both the family and the state. The parental benefit is undoubtedly excellent as one of the family-related support measures. This supports the child's parenting in the early years, but it is not really the only reason families decide to have children or not to have children. In addition to parental benefits, parents need much more than I stress this long-term security and balance, which is influenced by a number of factors: whether there is a kindergarten place, whether a child can pursue an interest education, if he or she finds a job, if he or she can manage independently, if he or she finds a place to live, etc. However, care for the health, development and safety of children is primarily the responsibility of parents. However, if parents are unable to make the best decisions for the well - being of the child, then family doctors and the child welfare system really need to intervene. We are convinced that the majority of parents are responsible and actually act in the interests of the child. We do not consider it reasonable to impose more and more punishment on our parents, with the aim of increasing coercive measures to guide their parents' behaviour. Instead of coercing and threatening, it is more important to take steps to ensure that parents are able to fulfill their responsibilities. For example, it is important that the child gets a quick family doctor's appointment if there is a need to see if there is a family doctor near the place of residence, if specialist medical care is available. Parental behaviour can be improved rather than punished by ensuring necessary, affordable and accessible services and by encouraging parents in a positive way. In addition, of course, information systems must function well, and information must also move between authorities. If the parent responsible for the health of the child cannot handle his or her duties, then the family doctor must, of course, intervene, but we are certainly not in favour of forced house visits by family doctors. It has been asked that if we have a certain group of parents who do not fulfil their parenting responsibilities and, for example, take a child to a family doctor for regular visits, should they be deprived of their parental benefit. We are not very in favour of taking away parental benefit because it also poses a direct threat to the child's well-being, and it is the family's ability to cope with the loss of income. If, however, the parent's deviant behaviour endangers the health and well-being of the child, child protection workers and social workers must intervene quickly and purposefully. Not only during the first and a half years of your child's life, but every time you need it. The demographic situation in Estonia is not commendable. We therefore consider it important to have a public debate on whether and how parental benefit should be linked to the child's medical examination so that all children receive attention as soon as necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U160	Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U161	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good sign that we are talking about this subject on Women's Day. I would certainly like to congratulate and thank my good colleagues from the Centre Party and to assure them that, as social democrats, we share concerns about the health of children, their early recognition and the better organisation of all this, which will ensure that children are healthy and happy. However, the solutions that are suitable for achieving this goal are, in our view, different from those contained in today's draft. I will also state the reasons why it is not only right to link parental benefit, but also the payment of other family benefits to medical examinations. Firstly, as several previous speakers have already pointed out, the suspension of subsidies does not actually ensure that the child reaches the health check. The most important thing is that information about these children unfortunately does not reach the local government. Let us be honest, the problem will only be solved in cooperation: local government, family doctor and family. The most important thing is that the family, the parents who should get help, need this cooperation. It is not enough that the support is not received into the account. Action also requires the removal of significant technical constraints. It is known that very many family doctors unfortunately do not provide all the data in the health information system and not all systems are compatible. The child should be registered as a family doctor immediately after birth, but for this purpose the family doctor should also receive an automatic notification. Linking parental or family benefits payments to family doctors' visits is only valid for a period of one and a half years, according to the draft. These years and a half are an important time in this sense that it is possible to lay the foundations for the health of the child at that time, but in the light of public health considerations, this measure does not actually guarantee everything it should contain. Stopping the payment of family benefits may even harm the child's interests. The Ministry of Social Affairs has already mentioned the solutions of the Ministry of Social Affairs to the establishment of a so-called monitoring system, through which children who have not been examined will be found and referred to the health check. Indeed, the first and very important stage of the system is that the sickness fund monitors the health check-ups of children on the basis of medical bills. The second step is to inform the family doctor and inform him or her that the child has not been in health surveillance, and the family doctor invites the child to visit. If the child does not visit, or rather, the parent does not take him or her to the doctor, the child welfare officer of the municipality will be informed. It is the responsibility of the child welfare officer to solve this problem in cooperation with the family doctor and especially the family. Indeed, the burden on municipal child protection workers is very high, but this does not mean that child protection workers do not deal with these children. It is simply necessary to find better levers for all of this to work. I consider it very important to mention what has been done in the Ministry of Social Affairs, which has had several ministers in office, including the speaker before you. I do think that the ministers have worked there, and I expect that the current minister will also be very active in this matter. The draft on the designation of family doctors and house visits was finalised at the end of last year, 28 December 2015. The draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act on the designation of children on the list of family doctors will be submitted to the government in April or May 2016, i.e. this year. The issue of home visits will be addressed in the new Health Check Guide for children up to 18 years of age, which will be completed in November 2017. What is also very important is what the author said was that in April this year the draft law on family benefits will reach the government, extending the possibilities for the Social Insurance Board to suspend the payment of family allowances and to flexibly channel these allowances to the actual parent of the child. According to the draft, the Social Insurance Board is also granted the right to transfer the allowance to, for example, the local government's current account. However, a separate subject that should be addressed is a home visit. Home visits should not be made by a family physician, but rather by a nurse or midwife. But the system must work well, there must not be only one link, but the child's well-being must be guaranteed until he or she is of age. Believe me, then we would not have children who do not fulfil their school obligations, who the local authorities do not know where they are, and children could grow happily. Thank you, and I wish everyone a beautiful Women's Day once more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U162	I'm closing the negotiations. Mr Riigikogu, draft 147 must be put to the final vote at first reading. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U163	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for eight minutes of intermission before the vote, now seven minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-08_U164	Thank you. Dear Riigikogu, I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 12.53 p.m.
