ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 11th working week of the 4th plenary session. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U2	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, as an important national issue, we have a debate on Rail Baltic. The Free Party Group thinks that there are very many unanswered questions in the case of Rail Baltic. That is why, on behalf of the eight members of the group, we are asking Prime Minister Jüri Ratas to understand whether the new government understands what the project is. The Free Party is in favour of Estonia becoming fast connected to Europe, but the planned business with Rail Baltic has been accompanied by a lack of transparency, poor communication and poor understanding of threats and alternatives. When designing such projects, it is important to feel responsible for future generations in terms of both financial and conservation. In addition, this project will affect the lives of many communities. Our aim is to require much greater disclosure of the stages of this whole process in order to understand what is being done in the form of Rail Baltic. In this regard, we are putting five questions to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, and these I am also handing over now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U3	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U4	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the group, I will hand over a draft to amend Articles 29 and 31 of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U5	Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one bill and one inquiry. The Management Board processes them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There are currently 93 comms present, no 8.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of draft law 319 amending the law on air protection initiated by the Committee on the Environment. I'll open negotiations if you like. You don't want to negotiate. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 319. We are now going to the vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection 319, which was initiated by the Committee on the Environment. Please take a stand and vote. 92 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending the Atmosphere Air Protection Act has been adopted as a law. The debate on the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U7	The second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Would you like to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 316. Let's get to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 316. Please take a stand and vote. The draft was voted in favour of 87, against 7 members of the Riigikogu. The draft law amending the Water Act has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U8	Today's third item is the first reading of Draft 344 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Control of State Budget' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask an oral question during the debate on this item. I would like to ask Arto Asa, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U9	Honourable Riigikogu! Due to changes in the composition of the Riigikogu, the Reform Party Group submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu on 24 November in order to change the composition of the special committee on the control of the state budget and to appoint Jürgen Ligi, loved by the people instead of Kõljala. In addition to this proposal, the Centre Party Group also proposed amendments. Initially, Mikhail Stalnukhin was asked to replace Kersti Sarapuu there, but since Kersti Sarapuu has made a quick career and moved to higher places, the changes that have taken place in the meantime make this committee a member of Olga Ivanova and, instead of Tarmo Tamm, Marko Šorin as an alternate member. This draft decision was discussed twice by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 5 and 12 December. It was decided to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu today, 13 December, and to hold a final vote. All the decisions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U10	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U11	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! Let me get this straight. This is a cluster bill that cannot vote on separate points.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U12	Yes, all these decisions are interrelated and must be taken or left here. So it's time for big decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U13	Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. Thank you very much. Do the political groups want to negotiate? That's not what you want. In that case, we will go to the examination of the amendments. An amendment to the draft has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. We have examined the amendment and the proposal of the lead committee is to put the draft to a final vote on 344. Let us now go to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, 344. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U14	Today's fourth item is the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Each member of the Riigikogu will also be able to ask an oral question during the discussion of this item. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation on behalf of the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! The Constitutional Commission discussed a draft decision submitted by the Reform Party Group on Monday 5 December 2016. On 24 November, a political group submitted a draft of the Riigikogu procedure to amend the decision 'Construction of a special committee on the supervision of security authorities'. The draft aims to appoint Mr Arto Aas as a member of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities to replace Mr Peep Aru. This change was caused by the departure of Peep Aru from the Riigikogu. Two amendments were tabled within the deadline for tabling amendments. The Group of the Social Democratic Party proposed that the representative of their group, Kalev Kotkas, be replaced by Mr Toomas Jürgenstein and Mr Hardi Volmer as an alternate member. The Commission was consensually in agreement with this amendment. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association tabled an amendment proposing Raivo Time to replace Ms Ken-Marti Vaher, member of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. The Commission agreed with this amendment in a consensual manner and was fully taken into account. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 13 December, put the draft to the final vote and appoint Mr Kalle Laane, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U16	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Would you like to open negotiations? That's not what you want either. Let us then go to the examination of the amendments. As the rapporteur has already informed you, two amendments to the draft were tabled. We'll go through them together. The first amendment was tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment was tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the position of the commission is the same: take full account. We have examined the amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is to put the draft to the final vote on 345. We are now going to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities' of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, 345. Please take a stand and vote. The bill was voted for by 90 members of the public, with no opposition or abstentions. The draft decision of the Riigikogu amending the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities' has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U17	Our next item is the key national question 'What to do with Rail Baltic? ' debate. First of all, let me briefly present the procedure for the discussion that follows from § 153 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Firstly, Martin Helme, Chairman of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, will perform. His report will last up to five minutes. The questions and answers that follow will last up to ten minutes. Secondly, the presentation by Endel Oja, member of the management board of Astrohouse OÜ, lasts up to 20 minutes. Then there are questions and answers that last up to 20 minutes. Thirdly, Illimar Paul, an honorary member of the Estonian Association for the Management of Supply and Purchase Chains, is a presentation that lasts up to 20 minutes. The questions and answers that follow will last up to 20 minutes. Fourthly, Priit Humala, a member of the Board of ARB NGO, gives a presentation for up to 20 minutes and then questions and answers are also up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask any rapporteur a question. After the presentations and questions have been answered, a round of negotiations will be opened, where members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups can speak. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed that representatives of the political groups speak first. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to extend today's session if necessary, but we will come back to this proposal later. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair... A procedural question, please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U18	Thank you. How did the Governing Board draw up this order of rapporteurs? The subject is highly controversial. I don't have a black and white position here, but it seems to me that there's gonna be a vote against it first, and maybe there's not gonna be a main report. Let me get this straight. I don't know all these people, but the scheduled time can be over. How is this order drawn up?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U19	The Riigikogu Board decided on the sequence of presentations on the basis of how the initiators of a crucial state question have proposed. They are likely to have a clear logic for such a decision. So that's why the order. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U20	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! The Conservative People's Party Group has asked for a debate on a crucial national issue on Rail Baltic, because we believe that this is an extremely important decision that the Estonian state is facing. It is important both in financial, economic and regional policy terms and in terms of conservation and in terms of general social debate. I asked for as short a speaking time as possible, because our sincere wish is that this debate be as meaningful as possible and that as many experts and experts as possible should be carried out. For my part, I will introduce some of the questions that I hope will be answered, at least in part, in this debate too. It is our wish that the new government should not shake down on these decisions, that it should not be hasty to make false decisions on matters of great importance and that, in any case, both the public and Parliament should listen. The Rail Baltic project is presented to the public in largely mythical form. Very many of the claims made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the leaders of Rail Baltic have been discussed are myths. The myth is that we will have a fast rail connection to Europe. The reality is that there is going to be a fast rail link up to the Lithuanian-Polish border, and from there we do not really know what is going to happen. The second myth is that this connection is going to be fast. In fact, even according to the planned schedule, the speed on this railway, depending on the section, is about 180 miles [108 km] per hour, with a maximum speed of up to 5,000 miles [176 km] per hour. Forget about the 250 km speed, it's not even in the proposed plans right now. This means that if we even talk about this dream that it is possible to travel from Tallinn to Berlin without connecting, it will take 12 hours in the middle. Logistics experts say that if a train trip lasts more than four or four and a half hours, he will no longer be able to compete with air connections. Another important myth is that this is a matter of European money. It's only partly true. Our own holding is in the amount that no one tells us about 400 million euros. In order to put this amount in any context, our annual defense costs are about the same order of magnitude. The Estonian state does not have such money and it should be borrowed. And more importantly, no one has told us how much it will cost to maintain this rail link annually. We have received about 30 million euros a year from government representatives on a longer squeezing. For example, railway specialist Parbo Juchnewitz estimates that it would cost about 50 million euros a year. I'm gonna set up some numbers for you. Currently, the Estonian state is subsidising rail traffic for Elron with, for example, EUR 25 + 23 million per year, which is the cost of buying out trains and subsidising tickets. The cost of the islands' connections is around EUR 17 million per year. And this year, Estonia placed an additional 7.5 million euros on the maintenance of the railway infrastructure of the taxpayer, in accordance with European Union rules. These are the sums that we are spending more or less together now. That's another 50 million. So there's a very serious question about what this 50 million is gonna come up with. What will happen to the maintenance and maintenance of our road connections, which will result from the maintenance of our ship and rail connection, it is all unanswered and it is quite obvious that the Estonian state budget, in its current form, will not tolerate it. In my brief presentation, I cannot tell you that we are being sold completely mysterious quantities of passenger and freight transport, which are, of course, necessary to show that this association is profitable. But let me give you an example. On the St Petersburg and Helsinki routes, where a total of just under six million people live on two cities, 450000 people travel annually. There are about 1.8 million people living in Tallinn, Riga, Kaunas and Vilnius, and according to the so-called forecast, there would be just as many people travelling there. It's just not likely. Thank you. I've run out of time, but I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U21	Thank you very much. There's at least one question. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U22	I think that the question of Rail Baltic should go to a referendum because there are no other legal options. This question cannot come before the Riigikogu because it dissolves in the budget so that the Riigikogu does not actually have a voting seat. At the same time, Rail Baltic is as critical as phosphorus in its time. It is also worth noting that there is not a single potential client among the supporters of Rail Baltic who would shepherd: 'Oh, what a mistake! ' Just in case, I ask what could be done purely legally at all to tame this project even a little bit and think about it. Because in the Riigikogu, I repeat, there is no legal place where you can say: such, different, not at all, wider, narrower, flowery, colourful. There's no such place.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U23	Thank you. Personally, my party and I have very direct democracy faith. In my opinion, referendums that are binding could be held much more frequently in Estonia. I think that Rail Baltic is the subject of a weight category where it is very sensible to ask the public for permission or to coordinate it with the people. Of course, this requires that the Riigikogu first adopt a decision on the organisation of a referendum. That's why we need 51 votes here. But a dear colleague can always bring this bill here before us. I'd disprove another myth I didn't sort out before. It is this myth that the European Union is telling us exactly where the route runs. I won't! There are only two things the European Union is writing for us. One is that the width of the railway must be 1435 millimetres, or the width of Europe. Such a requirement has indeed been included in this'money tag'. The second is that the route must have the city of Tallinn, the city of Riga and, of course, from there, the towns of Lithuania as well. But basically, we are not told how this route will run inside Estonia, whether it will go over Tartu and Valga, transfer to Pärnu or, as the brilliant plan we have now laid out, through the swamps. It's all up to us. I firmly believe that the worst plan that has ever been devised is at all. Making a new route is the worst plan, it's considerably more expensive. Let me give you an example. Making the existing Tartu-Valga line faster, electrification and faster with an average speed of 160 kilometres per hour, would cost three and a half times less, approximately 370 million, than creating a new route through forests and swamps. In itself, we can consider both Pärnu and Tartu, both of which have our arguments, but I do not think there are any reasonable arguments to justify the creation of a new route.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U24	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The Estonian Public Broadcasting, which should be a national broadcasting, announced this morning that the opponents of Rail Baltic are serving the Kremlin's interests by making news of our current event. How can we view such a claim on national broadcasting?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U26	Thank you. As a member of the National Broadcasting Council, I have often complained about the fact that the priorities and the Pietes are somewhat strange. I'd say Putin is today's Hitler. When, in our time, let's say a few decades ago, the Western people, the Western Liberals, started to lose some argument, their final argument was always that the opponent's position resembled something Hitler might have thought in his time. And that was the end of the argument. Everything! This opponent was such a pariah that no matter what else he was talking about, it didn't matter. It's Putin instead of Hitler these days. If the liberal can no longer dispute you in any other way and falls short of something in the dispute, such as either EUR 50 million or EUR 400 million per year, if all the arguments are factual arguments that are difficult to dispute, then the final argument is always that Putin would like what you say. And the argument is over! I do not take seriously these claims that the people who are concerned about the sustainability of the Estonian state's budget, about Estonian nature conservation, about the sustainability of the Estonian economy, are the Kremlin's minions. Russia also has its own logistics plans. This is simply not serious talk and, of course, those who try to talk like this are not serious news channels. What the Kremlin likes or does not like should not be an argument in our domestic debate, but should be based on what is or is not useful to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U27	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Martin, do you have any information on how much money has already been spent on preliminary work and research into Rail Baltic and whose money it has been?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U29	Thank you. It's hard to say the exact amount because the money's been minted. As Mr Gräzin said, it is hidden away from the various lines of the state budget and it has been shattered in different ways. However, we are talking about tens of millions of euros. I've heard of a minimum of EUR 40 million, but I'm afraid that's higher. I hope that people who speak after me will be able to respond better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U30	Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I firmly believe that Rail is the best plan for Baltic. Cooperation with our neighbours is important for the construction of Rail Baltic, and I am thinking of our immediate neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania. We know that by now Latvia has excluded railway construction through Valmiera, or our side through the Valga border crossing. The Latvians' interest is understandable; they want to get directly and quickly from Riga to Helsinki and to the port of Tallinn. The AECOM study and other studies have also shown that, with the support of the European Union, this project is actually profitable. The question is this: will you rule out the legitimacy of these studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U32	Thank you. I am aware that the Latvians prefer or have made it clear that for them the route over Pärnu is what they are working on. That's their plan of work. I think it is also a question of how intensively or actively Estonia for its part explains our arguments and wishes. But as I said, it doesn't really matter to me whether the route goes through Tartu or Pärnu, there are arguments on both sides. My main concern is that we don't make a whole new path. As far as AECOM is concerned, yes, I believe that a very large number of experts have made AECOM's study completely wasted and dusted. I will also say here that AECOM has been convicted in Australia in a court of law because they had submitted a cost-benefit analysis and a project on a tunnel that was sold to the public with just as beautiful figures. But the project went bankrupt and investors sued AECOM for selling an investment project with false promises. Indeed, the freight numbers that AECOM proposes are three to five, some experts estimate that as many as 15 times as there are real trade flows in the near future, even if we accept the idea that an important part of the goods that are currently moving by sea will then move to the railroad. The same is true for the number of passengers. Here is another very important fact: if these trade flows move to the railroad, this is only possible because the taxpayer is going to subsidise this transport of goods and make it more favourable than shipping. That, in turn, means spending on all of us again. I do not see any logical explanation for this, because if we are talking about a large investment with a very large own contribution, then this investment must be recovered. This means that these trade flows are not competitive at a price compared to current shipping.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U33	Good waitress, thank you! The answer to the questions was ten minutes. Let me remind you that the registered question does not go automatically to the next speaker, so you can re-register the question. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu speech chair Endel Oja, member of the board of Astrohouse OÜ!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U34	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable guests! My name is Endel Creek. I am an economist in my specialty, associate professor of management science, and currently mostly a real estate company. I have also been a member of the board of state-owned companies, including Tallinn Airport, managing several real estate companies, including companies with foreign capital, and worked as a management consultant for many years. I have been the head of the Self-Managing Estonia task force, which is why I have experience in managing and analysing large projects. I am a member of the IRL, but I began to deal with the subject of Rail Baltic on my own initiative because the information breaks that reached me raised more questions than they gave answers. Estonia's previous governments, led by the Reform Party, and some politicians in both us and Brussels have started to push through the project, according to which one of the most important economic policy challenges for Estonia in the next ten years is to build another railway branch between Tallinn and Pärnu, in addition to the existing one. It will cost at least EUR 1.3 billion and should run in parallel with the existing railway. The route has an impact of 75 square kilometres from Estonia's territory and its fenced gravel bridge is comparable to the Chinese wall in our context. Trains should be moving there at a speed of 240 kilometres per hour. The project is also proud of the name of Rail Baltic. One of the main positive aspects of this is that as 80% of Rail Baltic's investment should be covered by the European Union, it would be like a priori beneficial to Estonia. Unfortunately, it is forgotten that, apart from the negative social and natural side-effects that the route that divides Estonia will certainly lead to, as mentioned above, the Estonian state will have to pay its own funding, and until the end of time we will be paying the maintenance costs of the route. It seems, however, that Rail Baltic has been given a green light. For what reason? Rail Baltic is justified in the following areas: Firstly, the defence dimension. This has been tried to be highlighted in previous arguments, but in recent times the subject has been clearly abandoned as unrealistic. We no longer live under World War II conditions. Rail is by its very nature the most vulnerable mode of transport for modern warfare. In times of peace, however, the importance of military transport is not speed but concealment. Rather, the railway in this form, in the form of Rail Baltic, has a negative impact on Estonian national defence, as the existence of such an artificial wall prevents the flexible relocation of troops. Therefore, the defence dimension of Rail Baltic does not exist, and we can take this subject off the agenda. Secondly, passenger transport, or social dimension. Rail Baltic is planning to carry about five million passengers a year, with the entire population of the Baltic States a great goal, making about 14,000 passengers a day. However, it is clear that at best it will be possible to cover about 20% of this volume. Quote from the COWI study, p. 15: "The number of passengers is expected to be relatively low on the new Riga-Pärnu section. The expected passenger volume in 2034 is between 0.3 million and 0.5 million passengers per year on these sections. ' The reformist geographer Kalev Kukk notes: "If two trains between Moscow with ten million inhabitants and Berlin with four million inhabitants are enough a week, then two trains per month will be sufficient between Tallinn and Warsaw. ' The current Tallinn railway of Pärnu passes through the main settlements along the route and serves people mainly in connection with trips to and from work. A new route would not pass through important settlements. MKM has promised to build 11 local traffic stops on the new route. These stops are located away from the current settlements and stops. Anybody remember the stories about the shields? At the beginning of November, the Polish airline LOT and the Estonian Nordic Aviation joint company were created, resulting in a direct line between Tallinn and Warsaw. Thus, the few passengers whose goal is to visit Warsaw can do so comfortably and quickly already. One of the most recent news is that Ryanair is considering the free transport of passengers and that the company's revenue will instead come from airport charges. Conclusion: Long-distance passenger transport in Rail Baltic does not come because there is no such volume of passenger flows, the cost of driving and time do not compete with the aircraft's. This is even confirmed by the Rail Baltic Network, which brings together Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian companies. By the way, there are no representatives of Poland and Finland in this company. To sum up, Rail Baltic is the main and even fatal mistake that the route speed is planned at 240 kilometres per hour, hoping for mass transport of people in the Riga-Europe direction, and therefore the Tallinn-Pärnu route is preferred to Tallinn-Tartu route. Forward, economic dimension. Let it be said immediately that the view of Rail Baltic's supporters, as if Rail Baltic's path was beginning to flourish in business, is unrealistic. Such hopes were cherished, for example, after the completion of the Öresund Bridge on both sides of the Öresund Strait. These hopes have not been fulfilled. The philosophy of the Rail Baltic apologists that we are doing something and then it starts to generate positive effects in itself, no, no, no, no, no. Estonian entrepreneurs are not going to develop a business in Hagudi or Eidapere because of Rail Baltic passing somewhere close by. Unfortunately, the fact that there are very few companies in Estonia who physically export large quantities of goods is telling us that they are contributing to the export of their products. Estonia is the main export partners in Finland, Sweden and Latvia. In order to export goods there, we do not need Rail Baltic. However, as far as transit is concerned, the situation has changed dramatically here. Raivo Vare notes in this context at the 18th Annual Logistics Conference on 17 November this year: 'The transit model, or transit model, will increasingly be replaced by a storage service in the future. The overall reduction in rail transport is therefore an objective necessity. In doing so, the European railway model is based on the priority of passenger transport for secondary freight transport. ' For information that in 2010, a railway line similar to Botnia Line, Rail Baltic, was opened in Sweden on the shores of the Gulf of Bothnia. Forecasts: 1.5 million passengers per year, 20 freight trains per day. Reality: 0.8 million passengers per year, three freight trains per day. The reason is that maritime transport will always be cheaper than rail transport. Even if northwest Russian companies would like to send goods to the south through Estonia for some reason (see the drawing), this can be done via the existing Tapa-Tartu railway or through Koidula station and from there to Riga. There is no need for new high-speed rail for freight. To build two, three, four hours earlier in Europe, a five-billion-dollar railroad is absurd. The argument that the Russian track gauge leaves us isolated from other parts of Europe is also wrong, because technological solutions for rolling stock in both the Russian and Western European systems exist. The problem of track width has already been solved by special axle rolling stock where the range of wheelsets can be changed. Train formations so arranged are used in Spain, for example, and are running on train paths that connect Moscow with several cities in Western Europe. The latest news is that during the visit of Finnish Prime Minister Juha Sipilä to Tallinn on 3 November, our then Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas proposed that Finland join the Rail Baltic joint company. In response, the Finnish Prime Minister announced that Finland does not wish to join the Rail Baltic joint company. In his view, the current economic calculations are insufficient to develop the project. So, the Finnish state gave up supporting Rail Baltic in its current form, and we are moving forward stubbornly. Does anyone here see Rail Baltic? I do. The following question is the cost of the project when making an economic assessment of the Rail Baltic project. According to recent data, the estimated cost of Rail Baltic has risen from EUR 3.8 billion to EUR 5 billion. At the same time, it is unclear what the real cost of the project will be. For example, the construction of 11 stations for passengers with the resources of the Estonian state will certainly add to this. We need to build new freight terminals that are very expensive. It is necessary to buy new locomotives and wagons that cannot be used on other railways. Indirect costs, which were already mentioned, are difficult to predict, but they are very high. If we're talking about an annual cost of 20, 30, 40 million, in ten years it'll be 200, 300, 400 million. At the same time, we are discussing where to find 10 million to support the health insurance fund. It is clear that this in turn hampers the state's ability to build other necessary items through loans, such as motorways, the Saaremaa bridge, national defence infrastructure, energy-related motorways and infrastructures, inland railways, educational and cultural objects, etc. During the construction period of Rail Baltic there will also be an increase in the prices of the materials used; the cost of real estate will rise throughout Estonia. I would point out that, at the same time, no one in the European Union is going to give guarantees that the next budget will give money to the whole project on the same terms as it is now. It is estimated that during this period Estonia's own contribution to the costs of the rest of Rail Baltic's work may increase to 50%. Thus, Estonia may find itself in a huge financial trap that bites the sums of money from our state, which the politicians who push Rail Baltic through must be ashamed of for the rest of their lives. In other words, there is a real risk that the final completion of Rail Baltic will require the Estonian state to lighten its wallet twice as much as we can now see. As regards the planned revenues of Rail Baltic, a graphic example of the lack of a business plan is the fact that the 15 million tonnes of freight transported per year offered a further six months ago have now become 5.6 million tonnes per year, which is supposed to ensure the profitability of Rail Baltic. I therefore look forward personally to the new calculations made by Ernst & Young Riga's young men and girls. Conclusion. Rail Baltic does not bring Estonia such social and economic benefits as would justify continuing this project in the proposed form. Rail versus Baltic is currently the majority of transit specialists, public figures, well-known businessmen, the Estonian Rome Club, the Estonian Society for Nature Protection, many local government leaders who have bothered to get into the subject, the Estonian Hunters' Society, the Estonian Greens, Estonian people from different walks of life. This list will be completed in days according to how real information about Rail Baltic appears. Personally, I have presented my views to about 50 familiar people in the business world. Among them, only one person remained in favour of Rail Baltic. Indrek Neivelt notes in LP on 15 October 2016: 'I predict that a few years after Rail Baltic is finished, it will go a long way to find the guilty, and the investments that have been lost to date will be nothing compared to this. If you think about where money could be placed in our country, Rail Baltic would probably not be included in the first thousand projects. ' I ask whether the times when the decision to build BAM was taken at the NLKP politburo and implemented at all costs will come back. Political background. It is obvious that since Rail Baltic is the only project concerning Estonia, which from its conceptual basis is "cross-border," and other such projects obviously do not come to Estonia, Rail Baltic is not dominated by economic and social profitability, but rather by someone's political ambitions. Obviously, knowing that Rail Baltic, in this form, finds more and more criticism in Estonian society, in recent weeks citizens who have been thrown into the abyss, whose sacred cow, or even birth, has been Rail Baltic. For example, when criticising the doubters of Rail Balticus, Tunne Kelam admits: 'The euro ambassadors elected from Estonia have constantly followed the progress of the project and, if necessary, pushed it. The Rail Baltic Support Group in the European Parliament is in constant contact with both the European Commission and the governments of the countries concerned, interfering with the process with political statements and political lobbying in favour of Rail Baltic. ' What, then, is the content of this mysterious political dimension? It was opened by Siim Kallas on October 25th on "Ringview." He said that first, it was necessary to disconnect the Estonian railway network from the Russian railway network and second, to establish a direct route to Europe. Why is such disconnect really necessary? If, for example, the decoupling of the electricity grid from the Russian system is yet to be understood, the decoupling of the railway from the Russian system is an empty statement. This little transit, which goes from Russia to Estonia, is on a railway with a so-called Russian track gauge. The second major political idea of establishing a shortcut to Europe is that, in the case of Rail Baltic, we are setting up a new railway route along the existing one on the Tallinn section of Pärnu and making the track gauge ten centimeters narrower. I would argue that there is no direct route to Europe between spending EUR 5 billion and building a new railway between Tallinn and Poland, because it cannot be used to an acceptable extent and therefore does not justify itself socially or economically. On the contrary, failed Rail Baltic may be a monument to a waste culture. Such billion-dollar monuments already exist in the form of empty airports in Spain and useless bridges in Greece. Do we want to be a member of this club too? It is high time for the government to start developing a strategy to exit Rail Baltic from the current project. What are the suggestions? Point 1, immediately stop all commitments and agreements concerning the current version of Rail Baltic. Point 2, in addition to Ernst & Young's ongoing study, an alternative, or comparative, study is to be launched, based to the maximum extent on existing railway lines, including the possibility of using variable axle width rolling stock. Point 3, an independent expert group, working with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, must be the contracting authority for the study of the comparison. I will forward the provisional list of the independent expert group to the esteemed Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Finance during this week. The results of both studies must be presented to the Estonian public by April 2017 at the latest. I would stress that an independent expert group will not be a hobby club for amateurs, but an important working body for the state. It must therefore be agreed that this group will use MKM's technological support. Fourthly, all information on the business plan prepared by Rail Baltic and future information received from Ernst & Young's Riga office or other sources must be provided immediately to the independent expert group. And fifthly, the planning of the above points must be immediately informed by the European Commission and the Latvian and Lithuanian Governments and asked for an extension to specify the decision of Estonia. In the event that Brussels does not grant any extension, these studies must be carried out within a given period of time, i.e. accelerated. Finally. Once again, I have been inspired by Siim Kallas, who has asked what to say to our grandchildren when they ask in 20 years' time why Rail Baltic failed to be established. I'll get it. If we behave with civil courage and civility today, our grandchildren will not ask such a question. The economically and socially effective railway route, which goes through Tartu, works, and the current Utopian mega project has long been forgotten by then. If any of this is remembered, it is an example for future politicians of how to defend the interests of their people. Thank you for your attention. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U35	Honourable performer! Your clear statement has raised questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your passionate speech. I'm going to pick up a few things. You indicated MKM's been talking about 11 stops on the line. What source does this plan come from? How much will it cost to set up new stops? Where exactly are they? Perhaps you could elaborate on that. And a slightly wider question: are such steps to be taken in Latvia and Lithuania, and what cost-benefit analyses do you see from this side?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U37	I don't know what to say about Latvia and Lithuania. As far as 11 stations are concerned, I wouldn't mention the name of this person from an MKM interview with one of the competent employees, so it turns out that at best the stop might come near Rapla. The rest of the stops come to places where people don't live at all right now. At the same time, there is also the possibility that there will be no stops. This whole stop story's still swimming. It shows we've been working on this for years, but the part of the stops is still unclear. If at the same time we think about the speed at which the train should travel on the Tallinn-Paärnu route, and we count on 11 stops, it is clear that the train cannot stop at them. In that case, we cannot talk about 100 miles per hour if the train stops every 30 kilometres or even less. It can therefore be said that the issue of stops is still open.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U38	Please, Andres Metsoja!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U39	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Listening to your presentation, Estonia's life is simple: Rail Baltic must be canceled and Estonia will bloom in the perspective of the future. All concerns and concerns are very much linked to one major infrastructure project. In fact, I think there is still a way of regretting things that have not been done, not those that have ever been done or done. But by going on with the theme set by my good colleague Andres Herkel, I'm talking about what really bothers me. I have been in the process of initiating this plan since 2012, taking part in the processing process and seeing how many smart people, including local people, have contributed resources and time to it. It continues to be said that somewhere in the direction of Pärnu there is some completely new route, with no people living near it and passing through pointless places, favors and struggles. I just want to sort it out. Point 1, once a railway in the direction of Pärnu has been built for forest transport. The railway currently underway is just passing through the centers. Finally, you will also have a question. You've thrown out all kinds of bills. How much, then, does this new planned railway represent as a percentage of the existing route corridor?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U40	I'm sorry, would you repeat the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U41	Microphone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U42	The question is this: can you tell me how much the new route goes through the already existing route corridor, i.e. how much does it overlap with the existing one?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U43	As far as I know, he doesn't match at all. Or if it does, to a marginal extent. I would answer with regard to your lines as to why there is no need for railways at this speed. That's because people don't drive there. Please talk to the managers of any tourist company and ask how many people would like to take the train towards Warsaw. Ask Lithuania how many people would like to take the train towards Warsaw. You will see that it is absolutely pointless to build railroads geared towards the transport of people. Secondly, when we are talking about transit, there is no need for high-speed rail. Trains travel at a speed of 120 kilometres per hour, and this is what the current railroad allows us to do. There is no economic justification for making the route a bit straighter for five billion. That's absurd. We can still work this out with you at the coffee table.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U44	Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U45	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I don't think we should just look at things narrowly from the bottom of our country. It was actually a message from Siim Kallas. I have to say, I really liked the global plan that was in the context of what you said. But in the global context, the Arctic Ocean is likely to open up in the coming decades, and the cheapest trade route to Asia and Europe will actually begin. I would like to ask you, if you look at the global picture and the importance of rail transport in freight transport, whether we should stay out of global economic competition, as a brake on the global economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U46	As for the melting of the Arctic Ocean, I recall this Botnia Line. In fact, it is much cheaper to transport goods to the port of Kirkenes, Norway, along the Swedish national railroad or on the north by vessels. It is considerably cheaper than transporting through Finland with loading to Muuga and then on. Rail Baltic is not competitive towards Arctic Line, that is absolutely clear. As for the interests of Latvia and Lithuania, look at this figure. This has been done by transit carriers from southern Europe. They've drawn here on Rail Baltic, you can see in what form, because it's a cargo shipper scheme. There is no need to build a new railroad to transport goods at 130 kilometres per hour. We can do anything. We can build the Tower of Babel if we have money. The question is, I repeat the words of Indrek Neivelt, whether we no longer have anything to do with money in Estonia. Don't we have more important projects than building one megabuilding that we're going to maintain until the end of time? With the Tower of Babel, it would be easy to disassemble. But what do we do with this railroad, if we're doing the way Botnia Line did, where we had to drive 20 trains, but we're going three, and that's it? This is a very risky project, I see no reason that Estonia should take such a risk. The people of Estonia are not going to take this train to Warsaw to a considerable extent. If we want to lure goods here, we can definitely lure something here, then we must ask whether this is one of the main economic objectives of the Estonian state, that we must now compete for it with this investment of five billion euros alongside all the other transit corridors. I say that it is essentially a political project; it has very little to do with the economy. With this independent expert group, we will certainly analyse all the calculations made by Riga's young men and girls and make parallel calculations ourselves. I hope that disclosure of these results will make you think a lot about those people who just emotionally think we're gonna do one thing, so I guess he'll pay for it in the future. I've prepared a 60-minute report, which I've shortened here to 20 minutes. In fact, there is much more analysis of the interaction between maritime transport and rail transport. No rail is built anywhere in the world in parallel with maritime transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U47	Please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U48	Thank you. Perhaps this example of the Tower of Babel is not the best. We know of the many artistic values that have ever been created and upon which all nations have risen. Centuries later, we see that the creation is a very high value. Did I understand correctly from your presentation that you do not see the future value of this particular project, any security or strategic value for either the Estonian state or the whole region?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U49	Yeah, quite the opposite. I see no security value here at all because the railways cannot be used under war conditions, that is clear. From behind the Peipus will be fired with an arbitrary calibre missile in about ten minutes to break its essential points. Secondly, placing such a megabody on the Estonian 1/3 where there are 80 holes, Mr Laaneots, can better tell whether it is useful or not for the Estonian state. I say that this will undermine the defence capabilities of the Estonian state, unless we, like during World War I, mark guns on the inside of the so-called image. So it doesn't have a defence dimension.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U50	Please, Uno Kaskpeit!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Here's the question. If you reconstruct an existing dam and add one rail to it, is it possible to use it on both trains in both systems? I don't share the technique myself. Is that an option?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U52	I propose a second chance. I am once again referring to this variant, which means the use of a variable axle gauge. Those who crossed the border during the Soviet period remember how the wagons were hanging in the air for two hours until the wreckage was pulled out and new ones were put in. The current situation is that on this Saturday, 17 December, a direct line will be opened in Moscow-Berlin, where the Russians will use cars with variable running width. This means that the limit will be exceeded in 20 minutes instead of two hours. The people on the train don't even know they're going across Europe from the Russian track gauge. I now ask whether we need to build a five-billion-dollar railway in order to switch to the European track gauge. And I say I don't. Changing the track is tens of times cheaper and we do not need any European width, especially in view of the fact that there is no need for a different speed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U53	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U54	Thank you. I have two specific questions about your assertions. You said Rail Baltic splits the country. What did you mean by that? You also said that Rail Baltic would worsen the national defence situation. How do you justify that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U55	Answer to the first question. This body, which is fenced at a width of 66 meters, divides directly, say, one third of the country from one end to the other, like a ruler, and the paths become artificial. There is no longer a way to get through all the small roads and used gears. So there's this kind of mega-construction, electrified, fenced, etc., that you can only get through specific places. Once again, from defense. Perhaps Mr Laaneots will say something too, but at least I, when I was in the Russian army, and now also with foreign specialists, consulted by military specialists, will say that a facility like Rail Baltic will not have any effect for defence transport. On the contrary, these cargoes are on the enemy's hand. If we're talking about stealth, this railroad is as demonstrative as one thing can be. No defence transport shall be carried out on such railways. You can see that, I don't know, 100 kilometers away. Therefore, Rail Baltic has nothing to do with national defence. There are no people driving there either, and there is no need for this speed for freight. That's it, that's it, that's it! We can go on with the tests, and we're definitely going on with it, but I'm saying the result is the same. We don't do miracles here. We believe what Raivo Vare says. We believe what Indrek Neivelt says. I can bring in a whole list of guys and maybe someday we can bring them. So these things are, if there's a lot of money, we can do anything, but there's a point. I think we have better places to put money in Estonia. We're not talking about 10 or 20 million, we're talking about hundreds of millions. We also need to take out a loan, we are not a Norwegian country where money is set aside and then decided that okay, we will do something. This loan hampers our ability to borrow for future projects that are important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U56	Dear waitress, if you're referring to the materials you've brought along and the diagrams, everyone has the material in their hands. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U57	Good manager! Good waitress! Actually, this project is a little suspicious. On the one hand, I would like this railroad to come through Tartu, which would make more sense to Estonia, and on the other hand, as a naturalist, I have big question marks about the movement of animals. You said it was a political project, not an economic one. My question is that, if it is a political project, what kind of political power or political power or who is personally responsible for the consequences, regardless of whether these consequences are positive or negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U58	This is an exciting question that everyone is currently discussing in the costaars. Of course, there may be an effect here called collective responsibility. Since this whole process has been going on for so long, some of the people who were at the beginning of the process, maybe they have already stopped participating in it, have switched to new people. A highly complex organisation has been built up to promote Rail Baltic. Some people are in Brussels, some are in ministries, and the centre of the Rail Baltic joint company is established in Riga. Then we have a private limited company Rail Baltic Estonia. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has employed the people concerned, then there are politicians and so on. If we were to map this organization, I'd compare it to some huge polyps that are hard to cover. If we see who's responsible for what, we'll definitely find someone. But I'm afraid it's a collective lack of responsibility that makes it very good to get behind those who justify and push Rail Baltic. Specifically, those who have appeared in the press, I have mentioned. The reason why I think this is a political project is because Estonia is a small country in the corner of Europe and now our politicians in Brussels want to show how we are doing something big. Since we are doing something that is significant in Europe, we are doing one thing that involves several countries of the European Union. It's that big political slogan. Only, unfortunately, its economic and social content is somewhat empty. That's my assessment right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U59	Please, Marko Šorin!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U60	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I come from a town that has two important development stages to highlight the start-up of a factory and the construction of a railroad, and I drove here this morning between freight cars. Listening to your presentation, where you compared this railroad to the Chinese Wall, I wondered whether Rail Baltic was such a unique project that has not been built anywhere else in Europe before.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U61	I'll get it. Rail Baltic is a unique project that has not been built in the Baltics. When we talk about Europe, the population and business density are about ten times higher, and that is where the technological solution works. Let's say, in the Netherlands or Germany, there are 10 to 20 times more people per square kilometre and there are 10 to 20 times more passengers. The goods are also moving 10 to 20 times more. That's where the technological solution works. If Estonian companies start using this railroad to the minimum, if we are going to catch some kind of fiery bird, or hope that the Arctic Ocean will melt and suddenly something will come from there, maybe the Chinese will bring goods, etc., then the construction of a railway with this technological solution is wrong. As far as the Chinese are concerned, I would argue specifically that last week the first train came directly from Kazakhstan to the Riga port. In other words, there is no point in attracting Chinese goods to Muuga to carry it down from there to Europe. These goods go directly to Kaunas through the new logistics terminal in Belarus, they go to Riga, they go to the Port of Ust-Luga, they go to Sillamäe, they go to Paldiski, they also go to the Russian railroads along Muuga and they go mostly by ship. This tiny part, which makes sense for Muuga to be reloaded and then transferred to Europe, does not justify the use of Rail Baltic's technological solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U62	Dear waitress, thank you for answering the questions and, of course, for your presentation. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Illimar Pauli, Honorary Member of the Estonian Association for the Management of Supply and Purchase Chains of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U63	Honourable Chairman! Members of the Riigikogu! My name is Illimar Paul and my work experience comes mainly from areas related to logistics and foreign trade. In 1988, I received the first invitation to the Transport Specialty at Tallinn Sea School, and in 2004 I graduated from EBS as a Master of Business Administration. Next, for eight years, I continued to improve myself in the course of my doctoral studies in logistics at two technical universities, one of which is strictly rail-oriented. In addition to daily work in my company, I coordinate the development activities of the Estonian Logistics Cluster and as an honorary member of the Estonian Association for the Management of Shopping and Supply Chains, formerly known as the Estonian Logistics Association. Today I am not representing any organisation here, but I am explaining my personal understanding of the affairs of the citizen of the Republic of Estonia. First of all, I thank you for the opportunity to explain my vision of Rail Baltica, which is in the debate today, as a matter of national importance. I would like to highlight the letter "a" at the end of that word. It's not a glitch, it's a fundamental attitude. Namely, at the suggestion of the Estonian Language Institute and under the leadership of Estonia, the internationally used and well-known trademark Rail Baltica was distorted into the English word pair Rail Baltic and at the same time the project for the systematic development of Rail Baltica was allowed to run off the tracks. Rail Baltica's logic is summarised in the COWI study report presented in 2007. The logic of Rail Baltic, however, is based on the AECOM study presented to the public in the summer of 2011. Rail Baltica is celebrating the already existing railroads on Russian tracks 1520 mm wide through Tapa, Jõgeva, Tartu and Valga. Rail Baltic bears the mark of Pärnu, which is under design, to run a completely new railway route with a 1435 mm track gauge in Europe. Thus, these two diametrically different names in just one letter are two different things, of which I can understand and logically understand only one of the first real-life names, the one bearing the letter "a' at the end of the name, the Rail Baltica passing through Tartu and Valga. I strongly support the view that it is optimal to use and regularly modernise the railway infrastructure already in place in order to create a rail link between Estonia and Europe, and not to build another completely new railway line along the coast, along the sea route, in addition to a perfectly decent but marginally loaded railway. We already have more than enough rail tracks to make proper connections with Europe. Then why don't we have connections? When it comes to rail connections, two main components need to be distinguished: (a) infrastructure, i.e. rail itself; and (b) train traffic on this infrastructure. The existence of railway infrastructure creates only prerequisites for connections. Rail connections are made exclusively by rolling stock, i.e. trains running on railway tracks. In addition to the basically empty railway, the plan to build a larger and more expensive railway is equivalent to the idea of building another airport next to the Tartu airport that yawns from boredom to develop Tartu air connections. What, though, do we really need? More scheduled flights from Tartu Airport often depart to as many important destinations as possible. The same logic applies to rail connections. We need more trains on the existing tracks, not more rails. Why can't we have more than one railroad? What damage can be caused by a new European rail track with a European track gauge, which is largely based on European taxpayers' money? In my reply, I do not focus on the most important socio-economic and environmental aspects, which have already been discussed by Martin Helme and Endel Oja, and which I will be spoken of by Priit Huma. I limit myself to a simple rational economic debate, explaining the argument that under the current circumstances an additional railroad would be like a white elephant to us. The White Elephant means a rare and sacred animal received as a gift, from which the recipient cannot get rid, whom he cannot make a profit, and whose high maintenance costs he ruins. An example of a white elephant could be to give a super expensive luxury car that they are not allowed to sell but which they have to bear for all their maintenance costs. So far, if this family had managed in any way, it would no longer be possible to add to the maintenance obligation of the gifted car. If parents who are aware of the reality decide not to accept this gift in order to save the family from misery, unfortunately, children's disappointment, disapproval, and unfolding civil war are inevitable. Estonia is an analogous family. The social dispute about the acceptance or avoidance of Rail Baltic falling into our arms as a gift is the same conflict between children and parents, the solution of which is made more difficult by the fact that the good Brussels uncles first offered this gift to children. Today, therefore, we are in a situation where children are trying to secretly bring home an attractive gift of precious value from their parents. Classic case, isn't it? We still come to an end, but unfortunately, at the cost of the empty stomach and poor health of many family members. Despite the difficulties, we can still sustain even the lion's share of our freight transport by rail. The model of rail infrastructure maintenance is very simple in nature: it is either paid by freight forwarders or by taxpayers. The less freight transported by rail, the greater the burden on the taxpayer. If the goods are not transported at all, the taxpayer will pay for the entire railway in its own pocket. Why would you even consider such a railroad without freight? So that there can be passenger trains. However, passenger transport itself does not bring in enough for the owner of railway infrastructure to clean up snow on the railways in winter, not to mention that the taxpayer also has to subsidise all passenger train traffic by two thirds, as ticketing revenues cover only one third of the costs. Transit freight, while there were others on our railroad, covered all the costs of maintaining rail infrastructure and more in good times. They made a good profit. Since the taxpayer was not asked for money, it seemed to the general public that rail was some kind of parallel reality that did not concern them. Now it's touching, and it's very direct. There are currently millions missing to support rail transport, which were previously introduced by freight transport, imported in one way, another way or a third way from the taxpayer, using, among other things, hidden instruments such as excise duties and increased charges for all kinds of use. Looking at the new orange Stadler passenger trains and driving them gives the impression that the railroad is all right and getting better and better. In reality, Estonian Railway is moving on Estonian Air's course. Therefore, I ask all adults: is the possession of another railroad, almost free of charge, capable and reasonable, by means of serious and unpopular decisions already facing the end of a family called the Estonian state? The railways, which we can no longer abandon after completion, which we have not yet guessed from the origin of the hypothetical revenues, but whose maintenance costs certainly plunge us into debt slavery. The new Rail Baltic route, which is planned through Pärnu, is called the passenger train, because so far there is nowhere to be found a good example of efficient shuttle trains operating on the same tracks and of the much slower integrated traffic of freight trains. There are examples to the contrary of how fast shuttle trains have pushed freight off the tracks. The closest example to us is the impact of the high-speed passenger trains Allegro and Lev Tolstoi between Finland and Russia on rail freight transport, which were forced to move elsewhere. After the completion of the new Rail Baltic, the most realistic scenario could be that passengers would drive from Tallinn directly through Pärnu through Riga, freight transports be able to find them anywhere, but would remain on the current slower route through Tapa, Tartu and Valga. Of course, all passenger trains currently in operation and in addition will remain there. Finland's distance from the Rail Baltic project must be treated as an overwhelming argument. If Finland does not participate financially, there is no guarantee that their goods will ever move on our railroad. However, as far as passenger transport is concerned, Finland has plans in the 21st and not in the 19th century. The Finnish Government has already signed an agreement on common intentions with Elon Musk's Hyperloop One to prepare for the establishment of the Hyperloop link between Helsinki, Åland and Stockholm. This means an opportunity to travel from Helsinki to Stockholm in just 28 minutes, up to 1200 kilometres per hour, paying 35 euros for the ticket. Only three years ago Elon Muski's published Hyperloop technology has today successfully passed practical tests of the performance of the first concept in the Nevada Desert. This technology really works. Given the benefits of Hyperloop over traditional modes of transport, it is quite likely that Hyperloop will form the basis of the new trans-European transport network. We are therefore faced with a strong choice of freezing our limited resources into yesterday's soon-deading technology, still trapped in the peripherals, despite the high additional costs, or of skipping a few steps and jumping directly into the future with Hyperloop instead, linking ourselves to Europe faster than using air connections and cheaper than rail connections. Unfortunately, we cannot afford both at the same time, we must choose between the past and the future. In the early 1990s, Estonia was guaranteed rapid development and success by avoiding obsolete technology and creating a more modern platform in a completely empty place. Is something different now? In conclusion, the right way is, unfortunately, the hardest way. It would be too easy to accept the new railroad, which seems to be a gift from Brussels, to be right. This would waste time and money on dealing with significant but essentially irrelevant issues. The search for real solutions would be urgent for an indeterminate future. The real solution, which is appropriate to our needs, is more European trains on existing tracks, not additional rails. Since this seems to be too difficult to solve, it has slipped into the path of overcoming time with lighter resistance. In reality, however, we are losing time because competitors are not sleeping, they are dealing with the problems we do not want, they are not bothering to solve. For competitors, including Russia and Mr Putin, it will be beneficial if we neutralize our last remaining advantages by making foolish investment decisions and waste resources instead of competing with them on two empty railways. The right choice for Estonia is to abandon the white elephant offered by Brussels and instead focus on creating connections with Europe in the existing Rail Baltica. Thank you for listening. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U64	There are. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U65	Good manager! Good waitress! The last waitress spoke of a polyp whose father cannot be found, you speak of a white elephant from Brussels. But you also pointed out that Estonian Railways are moving on Estonian Air's course, that its godfathers, for example, are already in Brussels; our good colleague, Juhan Parts, is going to Europe. Describe, please, this Estonian Railway journey according to the Estonian Air scenario!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U66	If you describe it graphically, it's a drive down the hill, from profits to losses. The red line has already been crossed, currently Estonian Railway continues to fall, but already below the red line line, loss figures, losses are only getting worse. That's because we don't have any freight.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U67	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U68	Thank you for the floor. I have a question for you. I understand that it is difficult to name specific interest groups who stand so much for this railway project in Estonia and, as someone here has already said, serve spurs in front of Brussels. But have you also encountered how these large sums of money have been allocated to Estonia? In the European Union, in Brussels, have no analyses been carried out and the same conclusions were not reached as you and the previous speaker, so that this railway is not needed here? Is this analysis done or is it just given the free hand that the money is here, do what you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U69	Thank you for your question. If, indeed, there are analyses to justify the need for a new additional European track gauge, they have not been made public for some reason. The Finnish colleagues have mentioned a lack of economic analysis as a reason why they are abstaining from this project. All right, the railway itself can be operated in a loss-making way, but such a holistic vision, a picture of how and through which indirect revenue growth the system as a whole will work better, I don't. That's what worries me, and that's why I gave you this speech today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U70	Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U71	I'm so sorry that Mari-Liis Lille isn't here today. I'd tell him, you know, it's all wrong in this picture. The idea, as I understand it, that Rail Baltic, in English, is based on the idea of 1880, how to carry punks, kerosene, logs, etc. In the 21st century, goods move mainly digitally. Did I understand you correctly that, even in a purely technological sense, the replacement of Latin is not, by the way, a very symbolic, from an intelligent point of view, we Europeans are going from Latin to English, the darkest thing is not the project of the previous century, but of the previous century, and that we should pay tribute to Alexander III?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U72	Indeed, by its very nature, this is the case. Railway as such is the technological innovation of the 19th century. It has been improved and further developed over time, and no doubt today's high-speed rail is not the same thing as the 19th century railway. However, the information already available suggests that fast passenger transport by rail will start to fade away and surrender its share to the new technology Hyperloop. It is a pipeline transport where both people and goods are moved in capsules at speeds of up to 1,200 kilometres per hour. Its construction and maintenance are cheaper than the railroad's and its speed is higher than that of the plane.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U73	Please, Helmut Hallemaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U74	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm going to expand the subject a little bit. Since you mentioned Helsinki, I would like to bring in the subject of the Helsinki-Tallinn tunnel. How do you think this affects both Rail Baltica and Rail Baltic? I'm sure it expands the odds. There is also the Helsinki-Peterburi railway line, which has been modernised. Unfortunately, this has not been done with our eastern railway line. So please comment!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U75	Thank you. I am an ardent supporter of the Tallinn-Helsink tunnel, because even without rail connections to Europe, let's say if the rail link was between Tallinn and Helsinki or Tallinn and Vantaa Airport alone, it would bring us a huge economic leap. Whatever the rail link from here on is Rail Baltica or Rail Baltic, this tunnel can undoubtedly only be useful. Without it, with the transhipments, it's questionable. Once again, if we look at the tunnel and we are talking about rail connections and freight transport in this tunnel, given that Finns have the same railway standard that we currently have, it would make sense to move goods in the tunnel on the tracks that we already have. The previous speaker mentioned transit, but in the case of transit, we are talking not only about transport to Russia or Russia here, but about transport across the entire 1520 mm track gauge. Today, for example, our transit operators may not even serve so much Russia, where volumes are shrinking, but Central Asia and Mongolia, which is a completely growing market for us. It may seem surprising, but shipments to Mongolia are made through the port of Paldiski.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U76	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You once touched on the subject, but I'd like to ask you again. Do you think there's been enough analysis so far? Have they been made by competent people or businesses and have they been sufficiently accessible to the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U78	For me, just so I can get a picture, there's not enough analysis. I think that these analyses, which have been carried out and published, have been done quite skilfully in this key, that the answers have just been found to the questions raised under some particular rate, and there have also been assurances. I come back to the example of children being ingenious and taking excuses when they know that parents do not allow any gifts to be brought home. They'll try to serve such a forbidden gift through very skilled manipulations. I would classify studies to date in the same area where, by ignoring certain aspects, attempts are made to show only one thing, this beautiful side, and those places where proof or confirmation of the validity of some kind of forecast is sought simply to slip over quickly. The kids don't care how they run a luxury car, they're happy to drive it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U79	Please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! While you mentioned that you are an independent expert and represent only yourself, it seems that the yellow mark you have in your chest is similar to the marks on the table of the members of the Free Party Group. Maybe there's a connection. But here's my question. When I asked before, considering the waitress, about security, I didn't just mean military security, which could easily be bombed by logistical movements. The point of my question is quite different. If you look at the European Union, look at history and the future, can this project find such features that combine security in a military, economic and strategic and global sense? Could the perspective of this railway be that Estonia also takes into account the opportunities and needs of its partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U81	Thank you, Mr. Kruuse! I was actually hoping someone would ask that question. The sign is in the chest because I agree with the small statement below: the wise does not rush. That's why I'm okay with this badge. That's all I have to do with EKRE. But the question is, I think, quite rightly put. To be honest, I also began to think about the subject of security myself and discovered that it was our partners and allies that are not located anywhere in Estonia along the proposed route. Our allied base is Tapa, where the state is currently building, for 19 million, additional infrastructure to accommodate allies' tanks and personnel and is likely to invest more. In my opinion, in the context of security, the railroad should still pass Tapa.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U82	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U83	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I don't know if you can confirm this information that I haven't officially heard, but it's spreading. This is because Rail Baltic or Rail Baltica, as you say, needs, first and foremost, to knock the masses in Northern Estonia, start mining phosphorus and transport it to Western Europe, where it is needed as raw materials both in agriculture and elsewhere. And when it's pulled out, we're gonna have one railroad route on our hands, just like we're now having one railroad route to the Lavassaare, which still only works as a museum. Trains travel there as museum exhibits because the peat has long been dug up and shipped out. Do you have any information that one of Rail Baltica's motives may be related to phosphorus?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U84	Thank you for your question. I have nowhere to extract sources or references that can be relied on and said that this is the case. But assuming that there is enough demand for our phosphorus in Central Europe, once again I would say that, by looking at the location of deposits, the export of phosphorus on existing tracks seems to be far more optimal than, first, the transport of this huge amount of phosphorite along the existing railway lines to Rail Baltic Station and there its transhipment. In other words, if there is any plan to start exporting phosphorus from deposits in Ida-Virumaa to Central Europe, it is still worth doing on existing tracks. Phosphoritis is certainly not the commodity that needs to be transported at an enormous rate. The quantities are very high, the transport price is important, i.e. the cheaper, the better. The quantities are so large that I don't really believe that such a very complex rail-based phosphorite export business is coming. The markets to which this fertiliser is most profitable to sell are still overseas markets. We'll be competitive if we send as many lots as possible by ship. It is our advantage on the north coast that there are very deep ports and we can send out ships as big as the Danish Straits can pass. So I think that in case the phosphorus is ever going to be a business, he's going to be getting out of here with ships rather than railroads.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U85	Please, Arno Bridge!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U86	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, There has been talk of five billion orienteering going to build this railroad. In comparison, can you say what would be the cost of building a second pair of rails on an existing Tartu-Valga line or repairing it in such a way that it can normally be used? And here's a little bit of a question. For example, in Estonia, if we decide that the Tartu-Valga line is more correct, how do Latvians view it? Would this cause total opposition, or would they approve? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U87	Thanks for the questions. I hope I can answer them all now, and I won't forget anything. If I forget, please repeat! I represent the view that we do not need to build anything at all. We now have more than enough railways to carry out proper, fast and proper transport operations. The problem is something else: the problem is the failure to organise transport operations. I will give an example of the train connection between Tartu and Riga that is still missing. There is a need for cooperation between the two countries, but we have failed to do so. What are we talking about? Next question: How do you serve the decision to the Latvians? The Free Party took a trip to Latvia and received a negative response from Latvians. I think the wrong question was asked. The question is not whether they want a new Rail Baltica from Valga to Riga. The question has to be asked: would they like to see the European Union's money renovate the Riga-Pihkva route? And we could get a completely different answer because these are exactly overlapping lines. Latvia wants to bring the rouble to circulation and has bilateral defensive cooperation talks with Russia, and I can't imagine how they're going to work together, which is not based on Russian track gauge.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U88	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U89	Thank you. Finns have made it quite clear that they are not interested in joining the Rail Baltic project. Even now Finland is transiting either by rail through Russia to Europe or by ships across the Baltic Sea. The reason is simple: Estonia's tariffs are for this purpose, and if you move through Estonia, the price would be more than 20% to 30% more expensive. Pure economic estimates. If we now put five billion Rail in Baltic, let us assume that there will also be a tunnel that will cost more than twenty billion, what do you think, is it possible that the transit tariffs will go more than 20 to 30% cheaper so that it will pay the Finns, or is it a perfectly clear myth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U90	Thank you for your question. I can't tell you what's gonna happen when you add one railroad. I can comment on what's happening now that we have one railroad. Here was Mr Ernitsa's question. I apologise for not thanking you at first for the question. I would also like to thank you for this question. Mr Ernitsa had a question about what the Estonian Railway movement looks like on Estonian Air's course. That's what looks like moving in a descending line, towards the loss. What has been done, has anyone gone to change the tariffs? Why is Estonian Railway falling to losses? Because we are not competitive. Our competitors offer a better price, we are out of competition. But what have we done to improve tariffs? We can't even handle this one railroad, we can't get back to the goods we've lost. Not everything will come back, of course, but at the moment there is a situation where, let's say, the progressive tariff will increase more, the less the goods are. Perhaps in principle, if only one wagon remains on the Estonian railway, it will have to pay for the maintenance of the entire infrastructure. That's the logic right now. Here, too, we need a very deep analysis of how to maintain the railways already in place, which we have to do, at the expense of which we have to pay to bring the goods back. At the same time, we have to think about whether we need to bring these goods back, because if we have to subsidise the return of the goods, then why should we do so? What is this big business that we would make this move to keep here? If we have not found a satisfactory solution to this so-called equation for one railroad, then to build another, unsolved first task right away, I find it very premature. Perhaps again: the wise does not rush. I think there is certainly a solution, certainly there is also a way to make our existing railway profitable. So let's solve this first, and then, if this isn't enough, let's build something else, whether it's Hyperloop or it's a railroad, whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U91	Please, Andres Metsoja!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, and the waitress. Thanks for the report. I understand that in principle a new railway in the context of Rail Baltic would not need to be built in Estonia or, in fact, to be built more widely in Europe. The existing infrastructure should be used to move goods, but to think very seriously towards Hyperloop. This project should not be a white elephant once again if you use your words. Why don't you open up a little bit of what this Hyperloop is and how much it could cost the Estonian taxpayer if we wanted to introduce it on the Estonian scale? What would that mean to us financially?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U93	Thank you for your question. I don't know how to make such an estimate, because I'm not so thoroughly prepared for this subject. However, I call for this analysis to be included in the current discussions in order to determine the nature and profitability of this alternative compared to the Rail Baltic plan. Did they give me a signal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U94	You have 25 seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U95	My appeal is to include Hyperloop in the analysis of the profitability of Rail Baltic, as it has come to the table as a new topic. The AECOM study was published in summer 2011, with Hyperloop added two years later, 2013. It's so novel now that it needs to be investigated in depth. And before we understand exactly what it's about, which are the pros and cons, it would be premature to just build a fast railroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U96	Honourable waitress! Thank you very much for your presentation and your answer to the questions. We can hear another report. Priit Humera, member of the board of ARB NGO, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U97	Honourable Chairman, Members and Guests of the Riigikogu! The Rail Baltic project appeared in public about ten years ago and received great support immediately because we did not have a good rail connection to Europe. And if it can be done with the money you gave it, then it's very good. Now that more and more people understand that there will be no cheap train ride to Berlin, support is decreasing. At that time, Brussels did not intervene in the railway detail and we got the location, the speed of the trains and the difference between the rails as reasonable. This logical solution came in the current corridor, given the local population and economically also quite meaningful. During the construction period, there was an interest in exploring whether we could also build a railway with a width in other parts of Europe. A new cost-benefit analysis was commissioned, according to which it also proved to be cost-effective. At the same time, discussions on the national plan 'Estonia 2030+' started to take place, but the decision of the new route did not wait until the end of these discussions, but the decision of the government was taken in September 2011. It has recently become apparent that Minister Aaviksoo then proposed that the socio-economic impact of this decision should also be assessed. No one knew that at the time, because the government's decision was classified. So far, the reasons why the government made such a decision are still classified. Why are these reasons important? In the case of governance, it is very important what management information is given to a single management body. If we do not know how the Ministry of Economic Affairs prepared the case, then we do not know whether the government was objectively given opportunities to consider different options. We have mostly read positive messages about Rail Baltic in the media, talk about job victories that can defeat Lithuanians or other Europe, and how everything is going to go positively. When a similar analysis led to the government, it was quite difficult for the government to make a different decision than for us to continue. In fact, the decision to set up a direct route aside gave the possibility to increase the speed of the existing railway to 160 km/h and to ensure the connection with Riga through Tartu. Were they in the decision at the time, we don't know. At that time, together with this decision, a number of other documents, such as contracts on financing, were also justified. It was only on Friday that Prime Minister Riga signed a joint declaration to that effect. You might want to raise your hand who's read that declaration. According to the Foreign Communications Act, these declarations should be off the Rail Baltic website. But there aren't any out there. This government's decision was at the time contrary to the Aarhus Convention, as such discussions should be presented to the public with all the analyses and different solutions that can be chosen. Now there is a point in the new coalition agreement that we are doing analyses of the entire rail network. Let's hope they get done before we get to the decisions. If analyses are missing and documents are classified, public debate and decisions cannot be made. The project team has claimed that discussions have taken place during the county planning process. That's right, there's really been analysis in the county plans, but these tests only concern whether the railroad could be 10 kilometers here or that way. They're not about whether we're doing a railroad in an existing corridor or building a new route. We have conducted opinion polls all over Estonia and they show that the supporters of the new route are barely one third of the Estonian population. Most people are in favour of using the existing route because it would make Estonia connected, get Riga connected and then get to other parts of Europe from all over Estonia, not only from Tallinn and Pärnu. Perhaps we can get the necessary analysis results from a new feasibility study? In fact, it cannot, because the profitability studies of Rail Baltic specifically concern the profitability of the new route. On the rest of the networks, AECOM says quite simply: they do not affect the rest of the route, the rest of the route works in its own way, Rail Baltic is independent of it. In fact, that is not the case. When a person sits on one train, he doesn't sit on another train at the same time. When goods move on one railroad, they don't move on another, and when we put money in one railroad, we can't put it on another railroad. It is probably no secret to anyone now that Lelle's path will soon disappear because he has a parallel competitor coming out of the way. There will not be much further until the same fate hits the Rapla line in Tallinn. If we have Rail Baltic, the railroad next door still needs several tens of thousand euros per kilometre per year. The question arises as to where we make the local stops, whether we put money into new local stops and leave the existing route aside. By further developing this logic, we will reach the same route corridor as the AECOM study said as the future railroad. When it became public, Urmas Kruuse wrote an article about it in the Postimees that this could not be done. No one on the project team took it seriously, and the government made its decision. I would like to ask whether the analyses and discussions that come with such projects are simply a cumbersome formality and a game of calming the public, or whether this procedural rule agreed in the Aarhus Convention has some deeper idea. Perhaps we think that the Estonian trade mark is that all discussions can be made quickly here and decisions can be taken without jogging. But are these quality decisions that we really want? Discussions can make decisions better. However, many articles of opinion have been published on this subject, culminating in 101 letters published in September and a paper sheet published today. They're not really against the Rail Baltic route. Someone here has already indicated that this sign indicates that we are against the Rail Baltic route. I don't mind! We see that this process has simply not been carried out correctly, so that we can get the best route. Those who have signed 101 letters are not fools who know nothing about things or people who oppose all things. It's our remarkable brain potential, it's economists, engineers, architects. Their opinion should not be ignored, considered and taken into account. It is now ridiculed and branded as Kremlin henchmen. Will the new government continue in the same place? The current government actually has the greatest responsibility for the Rail Baltic project. After all, the preparation so far has only been candy money compared to what we are currently spending. In the future state budget, there will be many times as much money as has been spent so far. While perhaps 1% of the total cost of Rail Baltic has been spent so far, the budget for next year already has EUR 50 million, which is considerably more. There is nothing unusual about the change or freezing of railway projects. It should not be taken to mean that only some fools abandon projects and the wise always know where they are headed and always go on the chosen path, no matter where that road leads. If we still had the power of the Tsar, there would really be no point in discussing the Tsar's command, but in a democratic machine such long-term orders and oral promises do not hold. Officials and Commissioners are changing, the procedure is one of the priorities and one of the measures, then the other. They're all temporary after all. In Poland, there was a high-speed rail project called the Y-line, which, at its cost, was about as expensive as Rail Baltic. The cost-benefit studies were carried out and it was shown that it was really cost-effective, like Rail Baltic. But the Poles realized that the European Union's money is not infinite and that if they put money in this new highway route, their entire railway network will be stunted. They currently have a new line frozen until 2030. In the last week, the Rail Baltic team has finally admitted by the mouth of Indrek Orava that the continued funding of Rail Baltic is a very high risk. The Prime Minister also confirmed this on Friday in Riga. We can literally say that we actually do not have the money to build Rail Baltic yet. The European Union has not promised us this money. Ideally, it seemed that the measure under which Rail Baltic would be financed was intended to ensure that the most pro-European corridors could be financed and completed. But in fact, the measure is lost. The money is divided by country, by country, by country, by envelope, and by country, by competing projects for those who seem more pro-European. If Poland had continued its high-speed project, they would not have been able to use the money allocated by the European Union for existing corridors and therefore they abandoned it. According to the size of Estonia, we have been allocated an amount of 10 to 15% of the cost of Rail Baltic, which has distributed money until 2020. If the same amount comes in the next budget period, it will be fine. But if it is allocated with an aid rate of, say, 30% or 50%, how will we proceed with Rail Baltic and how will Latvia and Lithuania proceed? It has been said here that Latvians and Lithuanians do not want to hear about changing the route. Perhaps they will consider that this money will not come in the next budget period. The current money is perhaps the last money to be given in this way, and their interest is to make the connection between Riga airport and the railway station. And if the path is not built on, there is no point in arguing whether it could go through Pärnu or Tartu. The important thing is that no one at the moment is going to vouch so much for them to lose the money for this budget period. In fact, we should not have this European Union aid programme to make a racket so that we can take money from it for undertakings that we would not start with our money. Western European countries do not feel that way about their projects. We could try to be a little more Western Europeans and look at whether we would do this Rail Baltic for our taxpayer's money or do something different. Here is a road corridor plan prepared three years ago, where we also see this section of the Y-line that was put on hold in Poland. This is, in fact, a piece of our connection to Europe. Let us look at the example of the Czech Republic here for a moment. Here the dotted lines are shown, which are still in design, just like this Y-line up there, and here the line between Prague and Brno is also marked as a high-speed line. It's on hold, too. They are now spending money on the route from Prague to Brno, which is actually the most direct connection from Prague to Vienna, as well as the fastest connection between Berlin and Vienna. It is easy, of course, to say that Poles and Czechs are actually assholes who do not understand such European Union matters. If we do Rail Baltic, we're gonna show everyone how things are supposed to go in Europe. But the second option is that they have had more experts and that Estonian Railway has not been able to make it clear to our politicians how the railway actually works and what really benefits. There are purple high-speed lines on the map next door, green lines. The map of Estonia currently looks like this on this route. In fact, we have not put the high-speed line on hold, but we have abandoned it because the current Rail Baltic corridor does not meet the requirements of the high-speed line. It's built like a conventional rail, it's got curves and stuff that doesn't meet the conditions. Since this is not yet our vision for the future, we proposed a project in Estlinna with a civil society connection from Public Rail Baltic in spring, which would link Estonian cities to the population of approximately 400000 people to Tallinn. The driving time would be up to an hour and a half. This would allow daily work between Narva and Tallinn. With such a network, savings would be made by common viaducts, common bridges, eco-ducts, electric railways, which could be used by trains travelling from Valka from Tallinn. As a counter-argument to this plan, we have repeatedly argued that we do not know that the signalling network and the power grid do not fit Rail Baltic at all. Well, it really doesn't. Here's a map of the voltages of the network used in some countries. We're in this pretty primitive stage on a 3-kilovolt DC grid. Rail Baltic is designed for the most economical, 25-kilovolt network and for some reason it is thought to be suitable only for Rail Baltic. If we think so, we are actually paying these outdated network costs as fixed costs all the time. Instead, the entire network should actually be moved to 25 kilovolts. Our safety systems on the railway are still similar to those of the Russian relay network. In Europe there are mobile rail safety systems with radio communications, and there is no need for semafore. Such a network requires investment, but it is much cheaper than its maintenance costs. The rail gap doesn't dictate technology. We need new technology all over the railroad. I've done another analysis of what's going on here. On the existing railroad, we have curvirarates of about one kilometer. Rail Baltic is designed for curves with a radius of three kilometres; the Y-line project has curves with a radius of six kilometres. We don't seem to be able to take a fast train on the existing railroad. But here's a drawing of what it would mean if we were to increase the curve radius to three kilometres on the existing railroad. This indicates that in a random location, the shift of the railway would be about 20 metres and we would have to move around a kilometer. If we were to limit ourselves to a little smaller curve doors, not three kilometres, the length of the section to be redeployed would be smaller, but the maintenance costs on the railroad would increase. Here is the second curve radius: it is now 800 meters. If we were to tighten to a radius of three kilometres, it would be 50 metres away from the existing section. It is obvious that this will not have a significant impact, but it is precisely because if we do not want to take over our existing railways that we need to invest there and not as small amounts as we do now. We have been told that we are putting several tens of million euros a year on Europe's existing railroad. But it's candy money for the railroad. If we put ten times more money in the Rail Baltic route, the existing railroad will die out. I don't want to thank you for your attention yet. I would like to say that we should also look at what this entails when comparing existing rail networks and when comparing Rail Baltic. If we have to pick up many networks on the existing rail network, the availability of this railway will be reduced. People are going to use more cars, the viaducts are slowing down because of it, and soon we're gonna have a lot of people hit by a train. These are all predictable things and should be summarised in the analysis. We don't have that kind of analysis right now, but we really need to do it. There's something going on at the same time. We recently learned that Rail Baltic will not untie us at all from the existing connection to Russia. Rail Baltic and I are increasing our influence in Russia and Russia's influence over us, because a large number of the goods that, according to the new feasibility study, will come to Rail Baltic, come from north-west Russia and Russia's controlled Arctic Corridor. If we have so far been involved in this decision that if Russia does not like our attitude and our goods are taken from us, then we will be responsible. We know what we're doing. If we are connected to Rail Baltic and Russia is taking away Rail Baltic goods, the Latvians will also ask us to listen, we now have to pay the maintenance costs of Rail Baltic because there is no goods. So what do you want to do next? First of all, classified documents that are still not wanted to be disclosed should be made public. A competitive, new cost-benefit study should be carried out. If our current experts who deal with Rail Baltic are the only experts, then they cannot objectively evaluate this Rail Baltic, which is their own child. We need to assess this independently. At present, however, it is all for the Ministry of Economic Affairs to decide, and it is very difficult to find experts who can carry out an objective new analysis or assess what has been done. Once this study has been carried out and the risks analysed, we will be able to consider alternative solutions, put them into public consultation, and, as the Aarhus Convention provides, make public decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U98	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! You also spoke briefly about Latvia and their potential interest in connecting the airport to the railway. However, I have not received an answer to the question of how Latvia and Lithuania are dealing with their feasibility studies, their publicity, the transparency that you have talked about here for a long time. Do you have any sister associations related to Rail Baltic in Latvia and Lithuania, and do they also talk about ecoducts and such things? I'm assuming there's more goods going in there and the issue of operating costs isn't that sharp, but I haven't had enough of this whole comparison today. Please, could you give it to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U100	We do not know that in Latvia and Lithuania, Rail Baltic would be associated with sister societies similar to us. But the situation is a little different there. Lithuania has a very clear vision of how this route corridor should go. They believe that there should be a transhipment station in Kaunas and that there will be a 1520 mm rail gap of 1435 mm. They have a very strong railroad that stands up for its own interests and have been able to protect it much better in front of the country. However, Latvia has managed to hedge its risks by putting the funds of this project in a part of the project that can be used separately. Estonia is in the most foolish situation. I don't know if I answered the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U101	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U102	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If I understand correctly, the first three waitresses are basically opposed to building or spending money on any Rail Baltic at all. This is absurd and pointless, if you sum it up in a simple way. Your earlier statements have been a little different. You've said it could be, but it's the other way around. From today's presentation, I could no longer understand whether you had come to the point that no Rail Baltic should be built under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U103	I think it's about the name. We can call Rail Baltic different things. As the previous waitress said, at first there was talk about the Rail Baltica corridor, which belonged to the existing route and which was very reasonable. This project should be further developed as proposed in the past. Creating a new route requires analysis. I don't think anyone has enough information right now about what it entails. The right answers come when analysis is available.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U104	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U105	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! From the letter of the members of the Rome Club to the Riigikogu, I learned interesting information that the entire process has allegedly been de-communised or provided for EUR 200000. How do you assess the progress of communication so far? Do you think that this money has already been spent and is the whole process well-communicated and understandable to the people or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U106	I think this money is being spent all the time because it is being paid out to a PR company that designs the picture in the media in such a way that the public gets a positive impression of Rail Baltic. In our view, this money is not being used in a targeted way so that different opinions can be well reflected. On the website of Rail Baltic, we do not see any articles criticising Rail Baltic at all. In fact, good public disclosure practice would provide that the official Rail Baltic newsletter reflects all the views expressed on Rail Baltic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U107	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress Priit Huma! The well-argued presentation by Endel Oja, who spoke before you, recalled the view that the establishment of Rail Baltic has been driven primarily by political ambitions, not rational economic considerations. You didn't hear such a categorical assessment of your report. Can we point out two results from today's debate: firstly, that Rail Baltic is not absolutely necessary from the point of view of the development of new technologies, but secondly, if there are better impact analyses, smarter reasoning, as if it is necessary? Could you sum up that conclusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U109	Thank you. I don't think it's important to assess Rail Baltic as a separate phenomenon. The entire Estonian railway network, which is either Rail Baltic or Rail Baltica, depends on which corridor it is running and what it is. This is the picture that we should analyse and therefore make decisions. It is not right for us to assess Rail Baltic as a separate phenomenon; it is not a matter of itself in that sense. Inevitably, this is a ten-fold cost and project compared to the construction of Eurotunnel between England and France. There is always nothing left to do with this construction, and we need to make choices that we will win and lose on one occasion, and on the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U110	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm going to make a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of My question, and the indication that someone bears one sign, was not the opinion that everyone who opposes Rail Baltic is opponents and their word should not spread. But here's my question. You also referred to one of my speeches as mayor of Tartu, which was motivated by the aim of reducing the time spent moving between different regions of Estonia, including traveling from Tartu to other parts of Tartu. Tartu is a great city. My question is this: how could it still be that the planned route does not pass through Tartu, and why have the speeds that are foreseen by side projects not reached the level that we, as Tartians, have expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U112	By side projects, do you mean Estonian Railway Development Plans? I think there's a very simple reason. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has strongly preferred the Rail Baltic project to all other railway development projects. By strongly preferring this one project, even proper studies have not been carried out as to how much it would cost to increase the speed of trains on the existing railway, as foreseen in the development plan 'Estonia 2030+'. It's like this, you could say, in a way, using the authority of officials to turn politicians into rubber stamps. If officials submit such papers to politicians, be they ministers or the Riigikogu, which allow them to proceed only in the same way, then this is the way forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U113	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U114	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Thank you, my dear waitress, for a meaningful presentation. I would like to draw Mr Kiisler's attention to the need for him to be more attentive. I cannot say from my speech that I am categorically opposed to Rail Baltica. What you can read is that it's completely ridiculous to set up a new route. Further discussions are needed on which option is the most sensible and cost-effective. But I have a question for the waitress. We have a lot of talk about the European and Russian track gauges and that we do not seem to have any choice. Are you willing to tell me what you think would be the right width? How is this broad topic the best way to solve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U115	Thank you. In my opinion, the Lithuanian plan to establish a transhipment station in Kaunas for the transition from a width of 1435 mm to a width of 1520 mm seems reasonable. They have also received money from the European Union to carry out this transhipment station. The idea seems very logical and reasonable. Now, if we were to start talking about bringing this 1435-millimeter railroad north of Kaunas, would we move this transhipment station as well? Once the transhipment station in Kaunas has been completed, will we move the railways and soon bring it to the transhipment station in Riga and then to Tallinn? If we had a transhipment station, would there be a great added value for the Estonian economy as a whole? Do we have to be jealous of the Lithuanians that they already have a transhipment station in place? As Endel Oja also said, technology to enable trains with variable axle width to travel by rail is fully available and usable. The question is, these trains with variable axle widths are a little more expensive than conventional trains. If we wanted to use them, the operators wouldn't be too excited to buy them. Around EUR 50000 would cost one wagon more if the axle width could be changed. If we wanted to buy 1000 such wagons so that they could switch from the current width of 1520 millimetres to a width of 1435 millimetres and transport goods farther into Europe, it would cost about EUR 50 million. It's 1% of the cost of Rail Baltic. We'd buy these cars and start them up in a year. If such a project were to be carried out, it would be very sensible and useful. It's incomprehensible why we don't do this and spend a hundred times as much money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U116	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U117	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good friend, Priit! I understand that you believe that the European Union's support can, in principle, also be used to develop the Tallinn Tartu-Tartu route?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U118	Thank you for your intriguing question. Let us first talk about which part of the support we are talking about. Once we've spent 10 million already, it probably can't be spent on other activities. It's been paid out to the company in connection with the county planning process. While we are talking about the allocation of 10 to 15% of the money for the current budgetary period, the contracts on this issue have so far been classified. As long as they're classified, we don't know exactly what's in those contracts and what can be done. However, as regards the rest of the money that has not been allocated to us so far and which does not exist in the European Union's budgets, the use of money for the next budget periods in one corridor or another, in the interests of one project or another, is currently not something that no person can say. As long as there's no money, it's very utopian to talk about how we can use it for something. In my opinion, therefore, it is quite clear that most of the money that Rail Baltic could be used to build can also be used for other projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U119	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U120	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! By listening to you and your previous speakers' overview of this subject, it seems that you have thoroughly analysed and studied Rail Baltic. In addition to many of the disadvantages that have been highlighted, have you noticed any benefits or benefits for Estonia in this project?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U121	It is certainly good for us to have a proper rail link to Europe. There is no doubt about that. The fact that the analysis of the project has been carried out has led me and many others to deal with this issue. If we didn't have this AECOM study and if all this topic hadn't been analyzed at all, we wouldn't have today's discussion here and we wouldn't be paying so much attention to the rail network. I think that this will certainly have a positive impact on the whole thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U122	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U123	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! Your presentation gave the impression that people live in Estonia only in Tallinn and Tartu, but it is only an intermediate remark. Many times you also mentioned that Lithuania has built one thing and another, has been operating constantly, Latvia is also ahead of us, but Estonia is in a very stupid state. That's what you said. Is it not, in fact, that the questions concerning Rail Baltic have already been decided, and it is just time for Estonia to take action?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U124	I said that Estonia is in the most foolish position because Estonia has failed to do something. But it's hard to decide what to do in this state. I think the project team has also wondered what we're gonna do if there's no money in the future. They have done their best to build viaducts during this budget period, to build ready terminals in Pärnu and Tallinn, so that if there is no further money, we would not have any part of the railway in the real swamp. But I said that Latvia and Lithuania will be able to make better use of the allocation for this period if the next money does not come. Lithuania has already built a railway with a European width in Kaunas, which makes great sense. It can be connected to the transhipment station. From their point of view, the problems are relatively well solved. Estonia is really in a foolish state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U125	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U126	Thank you, Chairman. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. Your last, 'Thank you for your attention! ' the slide has two alternatives: the Rail Baltic direct route, where the internal railway ends with Tartu, and on the other side there is the Estlinna project, where all the major cities of Estonia are connected. My question is this: what is the basis of this versus analysis? In fact, I do not see that Rail Baltic or Rail Baltica, regardless of the route, is a major competitor of the national railway. Two or three stops are foreseen in Estonia for both options: Pärnu and Tallinn and possibly Rapla, Tartu and Tallinn on the other, and perhaps Tapa and Valga on the other. In fact, these two things are not exactly opposites. What is the basis for such a comparison of slides?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U127	Why in the left-hand picture, directly in the AECOM drawing, which I have already shown before, have the other railways been canceled? But precisely because the other railways are dying out because there isn't enough money for both of them. Maintenance costs cannot be covered. Even if, by some miracle, we continue to receive investment money from Europe, the need to cover the maintenance costs of Rail Baltic will begin to eat the existing rail network. If we do not have enough money to invest there, the fixed costs will increase and eventually the tracks will be picked up. The difference between the diagrams is based on this. As far as stops are concerned, it is, of course, right that trains travelling in Riga do not stop at every stop. But on the same route, it is also possible to navigate trains that stop at every stop. It's not like there can't be trains and high-speed trains that often stop on the same railroad. The question is exactly where we put the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U128	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Priit, the arguments you put forward at the various meetings have convinced me, and I have become moderately sceptical about Rail Baltic. At the same time, I think that maybe we should continue the preparatory work. The following study, referred to above, which should come from Ernst & Young in a few months' time, will probably give me a firm understanding of whether, at all and if so, the speed at which this project should proceed. What hopes do you have in the context of this future study?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U130	I think that this study is similar in this sense to the AECOM study, that it deals specifically with the impact of one route separately. For example, does this route get any goods from somewhere? But what it takes away, it doesn't deal with. In my opinion, we could now proceed by doing a 'competitive' return study on another route. After all, this does not prevent the existing Rail Baltic route from moving forward. If we claim that we do not need to study anything else and find all the answers from this new Ernst & Young study, we will hide our head in the sand like an ostrich. If this Rail Baltic route is the best, then some competitive study should confirm it. However, if it turns out that a competitive study offers a better solution than the current Rail Baltic route, this study should be particularly useful. At the moment, rejecting the consideration of some other alternative on the grounds that we are 100 percent certain that the Rail Baltic route is the only right one and that the study of all other possibilities is something very suspicious, I would say, that is very strange.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U131	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is extremely embarrassing that any discussion and consideration of alternatives have been declared to be a putinism. But I want to ask you about the track gauge. As far as I am aware, the Estonian Railways' position is that another pair of tracks could be added next to the existing pair so that trains of both European and Russian width can be used in parallel on the route. Then there would be no need for transhipments, for rolling stock to come from anywhere, even from the Far East directly to Europe. Which option do you think would be better, the trains with variable axle width or the addition of a new rail pair with a European width? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U133	We've considered different options. Adding one rail pair of European width to the current railway is also a possible option if the analysis shows that this is reasonable. My gut tells me, and the experts I've been talking to think that's not very reasonable. The Kaunas transhipment station is more competitive than what we are going to build on Muuga. As far as the track gauge is concerned, there's a slide next to it. Mr Helme said that CEF money must certainly be spent on rail with a European width. It's not really right. This has been repeatedly argued, but here is an example that you can look at on your slide. It is a railway in Spain, which was also supported by the same European Union fund as Rail Baltic, and it is not a rail set of European widths. The Lithuanians applied for CEF to support the improvement of railways which are not European in scope. They did not receive money for this, but the reason was not that the rails were not of European width, the reasons were different. This measure does not provide for all tracks to be of European width.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U134	Thank you, Priit Hops! The time allowed for answering questions is up. Thank you so much for reporting and responding! I'm sorry to Andres Metsoja, Märt Sults and Valeri Korb! There's nothing to do, I can't give you the right to ask any more. Honourable Riigikogu, before we open negotiations, I announce that the Conservative People's Party Group has proposed to extend the working time of the sitting, if necessary, until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. This proposal must be voted on by the Riigikogu in plenary. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to extend the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There are 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The working time of the plenary session has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Honourable Riigikogu, I'm opening negotiations. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has a proposal with which the President agrees that there will be a first speech by the representatives of the political groups. Erki Savisaar on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group is pleased that we are discussing the question of Rail Baltic in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. This is a large project and some people's pessimism about the project is perfectly understandable. No one will probably argue that Estonia is a place in the developing Europe. If we look at the map of Europe, it will not be possible to miss our location compared to centres such as Brussels, Berlin and Paris. Looking from the heart of Europe, we are somewhere far northeast. We are Europe's border area, whether we like it or not. Latvia and Lithuania are in the same position. Even Finland is interested in faster rail connections to Europe, even through the tunnel. Technically, the construction of Rail Baltic may mean that two pairs of tracks have to be built, along which anonymous goods and people from meat and bone move between Tallinn and Pärnu or between Estonia and Lithuania, but Rail Baltic also means developing the local living environment. A good example is the tram line between Tallinn Airport and Ülemiste Terminal already under construction and the planned similar connection between the Old Port and Ülemiste Terminal. The connection of these transport centres, which are important for Estonia as a whole, to the Tallinn public transport network is a continuation of the Tallinn tram industry Renaissance, which started with the purchase of new trams and the reconstruction of the line network already in 2014. Just as a tram is one of the best means of transport in urban public transport, for the same reasons, the electric train is an effective means for hundreds of kilometres of journeys between, for example, the capitals of the three Baltic states. The idea of Rail Baltic is a quick connection to Europe. There could certainly be a rapid connection to Europe for every large Estonian city ♪ in Tartu, Narva and Viljandi, but Rail Baltic must first unite the three Baltic States, not all county centres. In order to connect these centres, it makes much more sense to develop other modes of transport, depending on which other places the best connections are desired. Yes, it is important for Tartu to have a good connection with Tallinn and to some extent Riga, but it is understandable that larger cities like Tallinn and Riga deserve a quick direct connection. All the more so since this new railway is a corridor for European centres. In Lithuania, it is planned to add the capital to Rail Baltic by means of a branch route, as the logical route runs through Kaunas and not through Vilnius. It is not conceivable that rail intended for direct connection would also fulfil the role of the national transport network. Rail Baltic is still the strongest thread in the entire network, which must be tight enough to be a strong starting point for other threads. In order for Finns to have a reason to use Rail Baltic to transport their passengers and goods in the future, it must have a great competitive advantage compared to other connections to the Baltic States and beyond. But the longer the railroad is, the more expensive its construction and subsequent maintenance will be. Rail Baltic is currently in exactly the shape that is feasible for three countries and acceptable for the European Union as a project in terms of funding. Once the project is changed, competition will also change with the same funding as is needed anywhere else in Europe. Once again, this money cannot be used to build domestic infrastructure. In our home, we have to deal with the sums that are earmarked for home affairs. Rail Baltic is a good opportunity to get Estonia ahead of the general competition in Europe in its current form. Yes, Latvia and Lithuania are also benefiting, but small countries need to put their backs together in order to do a little bit of world competition and do great things. Building one modern, environmentally friendly and fast railroad could be exactly what we could do. The European Union, too, understands this and is ready to support it strongly with money for its part. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania need today's train connection, both between themselves and with their distant neighbours in Europe. Without good connections, we are in serious danger of remaining on the periphery of the European Union, where development is hindered compared to the Western world. Rail Baltic is not the wall of China or the mythological dragon that has sometimes been described. Rail Baltic is just a railroad. The task of railways is to unite countries and people. Understandably, it must not become a barrier to the migration routes of wild animals or unduly harm nature in any other way. The leaders of Rail Baltic have confirmed that environmental issues will be dealt with both before and after construction. The beautiful nature of Estonia will not become a bombhole if one railway is added. Estonia also needs better connections within the country. Rail Baltic is only part of the constantly developing transport network of the whole country. At the same time, the European railway project improves other transport connections in the direction of Pärnu, Tartu and Narva. The development of maritime and air transport will not stop in the meantime either. It is certainly not possible to do everything at once, but we can build Rail Baltic. We will then try to get it done, so that we will not lose sight of the small domestic issues and contradictions and will not lose sight of the greater purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U136	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U137	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! To begin with, I am simply amazed by the change in the position of the Centre Party in the two weeks they have been in the government. Hello, come to your senses! In two weeks, you have become an agitprop company like the Reform Party! What's going on?! But when I come to Rail Baltic, I would first like to say that one of the great reasons why the Free Party has come to politics is to stand up for Estonia to become a country of strong civil society. That is certainly not the case now. But fortunately, we have a very positive example of taking the form of civil activists who have questioned the way and method of approving the Rail Baltic route through Pärnu. The view of the Free Party is that no international agreement may be concluded until all studies, contracts, studies' initial tasks and everything else related to it have been made public. Our position is that Rail Baltic has been opaque, arrogant, arrogant and protected by the so-called thick-shelled PR mechanism, which has been paid off with European money. But I come back to civil society. The civil movement "Public Rail Baltic" and later the so-called 101 letter in Postimees have questioned the way Rail Baltic matters are handled. I've been following this movement and I've been in close contact with them for a relatively long time. The humiliation, mockery, demonstration of superiority, and all that they have had to experience in these years, is simply amazing. Apparently, many people do not know that one of the leaders of this Rail Baltic movement was publicly invited to the Kapo for questioning in the early years, or, for God's sake, is not a Russian agent. It really is an over-intellected process that has taken place! The representatives of the movement have been saying since the beginning that they are not entirely against Rail Baltic. They call on Estonian society to discuss such a large decision within a reasonable time. They call for more serious studies to be carried out, which would also take the alternative into account. They call on us not to take the economic risk that perhaps our children should pay so that we do not take the economic risk at a time when Europe's future is very confusing. We know very well today that one net payer, a superpower, is leaving the European Union. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U138	Of course! Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U139	It is absolutely clear, and it does not have to be a hard mathematician, that the amounts distributed in the European Union will be lower in the next funding period. We're taking this risk without knowing how we're gonna finance the whole project. The motion representatives ask in loud voice what happens when this project gets more expensive than expected. So how are we gonna bear the cost? Is it not more reasonable to put the existing infrastructure in order, which would ensure a poor but functional connection to another Europe? This is the same railroad that I was driving to Vilnius during the consultative period. Let's get this railroad fixed, they say. If we put the existing railway in order, we will solve a great deal of regional policy problems. We do not necessarily have to create jobs further away from Tallinn, Tartu, Narva, Pärnu, Haapsalu, we give rural people the opportunity to train to work where the jobs already exist. And those trains would move fast. Movement activists are asking and, quite rightly, asking where the goods that will be carried on this railroad come from. I also heard from the speech by Priit Huma that we are talking about security and decoupling Russia in the context of this railway, but interestingly it turns out that the latest study by Ernst & Young, whose interim report is classified, shows that goods coming from north-west Russia or the so-called Arctic route are largely accounted for. How so? Where's the logic? So how do we untie ourselves from Russia? There are a lot of questions being asked, and legitimate questions. You heard them today from this remote. Therefore, I would like to emphasise once again this proposal that we have made: we are taking time off! Let us not conclude any agreements; let us not take this precisely an economic risk, which is very great! I understand that during the construction period, GDP in Estonia can grow. I understand that we have built huge bridges and we have developed the competence of bridge builders, and bridge builders are eager to get a job. I understand that there are many owners of small mines in Estonia who are eagerly waiting for this great wall to be built. But it's a short-term view that we don't think about what happens next, how our children and our grandchildren are going to pay for this maybe a very big mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U140	Mart Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U141	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start like this: are bums and are ideological bums. Bangheads are the ones who don't understand anything at all, ideological bums are the ones who actually understand things very well, but they still cut one. We have experienced this ideological obsession in the form of questions in this Chamber today. This means that no matter how nicely, no matter how powerful the numbers, no matter how clear the arguments, you will still hear ideologically a bummer: we need a quick connection to Europe, we need it, we need a second and a third, we will get money from Europe, we need to use it, we need to bind ourselves to Finland, we need to untie ourselves from Russia. All these views have been destroyed by the waitresses here. And then when there's nothing else to say, they say, but you work for Putin, you're Kremlin agents! There's nothing else to say, and then they come up with this ridiculous thing. Respectable, even those who come after me, please do not use these arguments again! When you listened attentively, you realized that no one, neither Martin Helme nor our invited waitresses, said that they were against Rail Baltic or Rail Baltica. There is no objection, there is no objection to joining Europe, there is no objection to railway construction. We're against the way it's done. We are opposed to wasting money, we are opposed to not doing things cheaper and rationally, just as the Latvians and Lithuanians do. We are opposed to the fact that we do not take money from Europe that we can use in such a way that even if the railways do not come, it does not go to waste. We are opposed to the fact that we are now as frivolous as fast-borrowers, who also inherit their debts to children and grandchildren. That's what we're against. But we don't mind having a railroad. We are opposed to things being carried out in haste, insanely, secretive, and in vassals. If you have not understood this in today's sitting, you are ideologically abstinences who do not want to understand anything. It's as simple as that. And now I'm going straight to the Centre Party, who was in opposition three weeks ago. Ladies and gentlemen of the Centre Party! Stop this madness! Take your time, don't waste all our money together! Don't take on our children's debts! Do not throw up utopias from large-scale passenger and freight transport, the Helsinki-Tallinn tunnel! Hey, it's like some kind of Monopoli game! Don't play that Monopoli game! You've come to the government and changed your position in two weeks. We already hear that e-elections are not so bad. Soon we will probably also hear of the fact that we do not need the President's direct election so badly, which is that we have initiated 12 or 13 times in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen of the Centre Party! Act as a dignified party with a backbone and a voice, taking into account the opposition, taking into account public opinion and leading the new coalition on the basis of these views and values! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U142	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U143	I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U144	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U145	Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners! There is no doubt that Rail Baltic is a rather complicated issue. It is not a black or white issue, and it is not at all an easy one. Unfortunately, when we start discussing Rail Baltic, we tend to get caught up in the emotions of the previous speaker, as well. But it is certain that on emotional soil, this matter cannot and must not be decided. What are the arguments when we talk about Rail Baltic? They can be broadly divided into three parts: firstly political, secondly economic and thirdly environmental. This order can be changed the way we want it to be. First of all, political arguments, which can also be considered as security policy arguments. These reports sound like this railroad is needed to move the army from one place to another or carry equipment. The reality, however, is, as one of the previous speakers said, and what is there for all of us by looking at the land map is that Estonia is a land on the edge of Europe, where all the connections with the so-called old Europe with which we are in a common economic system are extremely important. It is important for us that we have reasonable connections and rapid access everywhere, whether it be passenger or freight. That is in any case a political argument. I think that the majority of listeners will certainly agree with this argument. Now for the economic arguments. In these cases, the choice of the route will play a clear role, either in choosing Tartu or in some other direction. That's one point. Secondly, we need to think about what it all costs. It says here that Rail Baltic costs a lot. One waitress quite early claimed that the whole construction process and these huge debts are going to bankrupt our country, so it is beyond our means. But we're talking about action. The railway should be completed in 2025. A lot has been said here about EUR 4.2 billion, but I recall that it is only EUR 1.3 billion within Estonia. And according to my current knowledge, the state budget of Estonia is EUR 250 million. This EUR 250 million is certainly not an amount that will destroy the Estonian state's budget and overpower us, especially if we consider the years 2025 to 2030. Economic arguments also include the calculation that we are going to carry on this route as many passengers and goods. One waitress rejected the idea of another interested party, which has also passed through the alternative media that huge phosphorite trains are moving on the route. Indeed, it's one of the stories that goes along with all of Rail Baltic's controversy. In fact, these things are not as opaque at all as they have been claimed. The AECOM study, which is the basis for this plan, has suggested that by 2030 Rail will move 12,9 million tonnes of freight on the Baltic route. It might look like a very large amount today. If you look at the current cargo volumes of Estonian Railways, this objective may seem unachievable, as the quantities on Estonian railways have always decreased. But once again, we are talking about a distant future, we are talking perhaps about a different political dimension. Today, international relations are difficult, but we still expect positive developments in trade, even with our large neighbouring country. Quite recently, the Economic Commission visited the Port of Tallinn, where the need for Rail Baltic came up. To me at the time, the leaders of the Port of Tallinn were somewhat surprisingly positive. They have had very many contacts with the Finnish side. The Vuosaar port is located directly across the bay from Muuga Harbour, which is in the same developing position as Muuga Harbour. There has been talk of a strong interest in moving Finnish goods through the port of Vuosaar. Finland is, in a sense, an island, and goods are exported from Finland to 90 to 95 million tonnes. The port of Vuosaar would make it possible to move 5 to 6 million tonnes of goods if they moved not by ship but directly to, I don't know, Hamburg and Antwerp and then down to Europe, northern Italy or elsewhere in southern Europe. It would be more direct and obviously cheaper. So the economic arguments tend to support it, all the more so as it talks about Hyperloop technology. If we also bring the tunnel into play, the economic arguments will certainly get a slightly different foundation. A little bit of environmental arguments. In view of these, more than €50 million is planned to be spent on environmental activities. There are 26 routes for crossing large game, in addition to hundreds of different passes for smaller animals, etc. There's been a rumor that this line is going to be in a whole new place. That's not right either. In fact, 11% of the entire Rail Baltic would be located on or next to the existing route. Now, when we look at the time dimension, to be quite honest, it is figuratively speaking, or in the case of this project, literally, the train is largely simply gone. In June this year, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Poland and the European Union signed a joint declaration on Rail Baltic. On 15 November, the Connecting Europe Facility financing agreement was signed on the basis of which work is actually under way. I am thinking, for example, of the construction of a tram line between Ülemiste passenger terminal and Tallinn Airport. In cooperation with the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian authorities, a draft intergovernmental agreement has been prepared this year, setting the deadlines for the construction and financing of Rail Baltic. So, in fact, the work is already under way and back to the view that the railroad is coming, but let's think a little bit more, would mean that Rail Baltic would definitely not come. The choice of a new route would mean a five-to-six-year lightning. Currently, the plans have already been approved in three counties that the route passes through. In this sense, we have moved very far forward. So, based on the information available, there is no reason to believe that Rail Baltic should not come in this form. It is true that there will also be a new implementation plan and a cost-benefit analysis in the first quarter of 2017, which may give a different view. But I don't think this view denies the necessity of Rail Baltic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U146	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Kristen Michal, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U147	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! I would like to respond a little to a few speeches and a little bit to describe. When I was watching the general nature and tone of the waitresses, I watched it on TV for a while, it seemed that the ball was being rolled into a single gate. This is certainly not quite right for a debate involving a large infrastructure. In the speeches, we were admonished to take time off and to make a circle. The answer is very simple. People who attended the Rail Baltic conference some time ago know that Henrik Hololei, who is perhaps the highest-ranking official of the European Union, said very simple words: 'Use it or lose it. " And with Rail Baltic funding, that's actually the case. We are either using this money or using it for us by other European countries, our competitors. The idea that if we don't use it and we say that we want to use it somewhere else, it's possible that this idea isn't going anywhere. You don't have to try to be a little clever here, make a rake, use that money somewhere else, make some other network, maybe you don't notice it. Now, here's the question of what we're going to pass on to our children. When we look around our continent, we see that the part of Europe with decent connections, with fast connections, is not the poorest part of Europe. This is the most prosperous part of Europe; it is a part of economic growth, where there is development. It is said that Estonia is sending itself to destruction by building Rail Baltic, but for some reason wealthy countries are creating new connections that allow people and goods to move quickly. So I call on you to realise that Rail Baltic is not a national issue. If we look at economic indicators, we can see that the majority of Estonian exports are going towards the European Union, but we have a proper rail link in a completely different direction. 80% of Estonian exports are moving towards the European Union. What is our rail connection to another Europe? There is no proper connection, although this direction is much closer to us both politically, securityally and culturally than the eastern direction. And today we're still discussing maybe taking some time off to make this connection. I'm sure you've all read about Lennart Meri's dream. Lennart Meri's dream was that in six or seven hours I couldn't remember Berlin. It's not that fast right now. But all this talk about cutting time, slowing down the venture and looking for a new path is both the memory of Lennart Meri and the mockery of many of our ancestors' memories and dreams. Well, I'd advise you not to have that kind of double-talking conversation. Yeah, there are nuances, yeah, you can argue about the path choice. You can argue about everything. But the principled attitude must be that the Estonian people want this connection and get this connection. Most Estonian people support it, by the way, it is not some narrow-circle backroom plan. This is something that is in the interests of the future of the Estonian people and in the interests of our economy. If you look at a more distant perspective, our new President has said that, along with the Tallinn-Helsing tunnel, this is certainly also an important message for economic growth. This tunnel is a pretty daring dream, I admit it, but one day it might come, and it'll probably come. Studies have already begun. So, to sum up, I encourage everyone to dream, encourage support for this project and seek positive solutions. Let's not talk about taking time off! Let us not look for such details that we are very well aware of in places as Siim Kallas wrote, champagne bottles when this project is turned into a ditch. I think you've read this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U148	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U149	Today I caught myself in this hall several times wondering if I should be afraid of the future. I don't think you should ever be afraid of the future. At the same time, it is clear that a wise person has doubts about almost everything, but in the end he will decide. Finally, it will decide what is right, and this decision must take the community forward in some way that we have agreed. And the road we have agreed on is very clear in the national plan 'Estonia 2030+'. It is very clear that Rail Baltic, as the fastest possible direct connection to Central Europe, is a matter of our lives. This position is generally accepted, it has been discussed in very large circles, and the work that is currently going on is to make it possible to cut the tape and start the railroad in 2025. It must be said once again that rail is not an end in itself; it is a means of achieving something. Much has been said about our children today. I have two children, and I think it's our children's bread, and I believe in it. It is true that Rail Baltic does not produce anything in itself, but it expands our political, economic, and I do not hesitate to say, even regional opportunities. It has been argued here several times today that the agreed corridor, which goes the most direct route to Rapla, Pärnu and from there to our neighbours, is somewhere in the swamp where people do not live. There's no way I can accept that. Let it be said that the Rail Baltic Corridor really covers 11% of the existing railways. There's a man's hand involved. There are no villages on the side, it is true, and that is why changes to the corridor of this railway route have been brought into effect, and this should remain as close as possible to the larger centres. To my surprise, I never heard a word about the development corridor today. In connection with this same project, as a county elder, I was able to be at the start of this project in 2012 was the year we went to study the project of the northern neighbours. In particular, they have analysed the impact of the development corridors accompanying the various railway infrastructures. They are effective and will certainly develop life throughout Estonia. These same routes could also be looked at in the context of the local railway. In fact, Estonia owes to the Pärnumaa community. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this because it's been agreed that the Lelle-Pärnu section will be reconstructed. This railroad is in such a state today that, in essence, the speed must be moved to 60 kilometres per hour, starting next year. How do we look at people who pay taxes in our country as statesmen and have to be able to choose a place where to raise children, where to invest as entrepreneurs? We're just freaking people out: we're gonna make a deal. Sometimes we're gonna make a deal. And it always comes with a certain wallet. The Lelle-Pärnu section should have been fixed a long time ago. Now this community has agreed and it has also been agreed at Estonian level that it is unreasonable to have two parallel railways and that this corridor must be partly introduced as the Rail Baltic corridor. Let it also be settled that it is often asked whether there should be any stops on this route in addition to Tallinn, Rapla and Pärnu. Actually, I should. The question is, how does the community win in general? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U150	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U151	How does the community win anyway? Railroads must also benefit the people who live along it. There's no way to do things by looking down from the cloud line and telling people how they're supposed to live down there. For this respectable work that has been done, I would like to congratulate all those people who have dealt with the topic of Rail Baltic almost 24/7. It's been a hell of a job. There have been extensive negotiations, agreements with landowners, various interest groups. And this work has, in conclusion, been commendable. I am not sure that if we open a new file that means the direction of Tartu, it will be just as successful. But the truth is, ultimately, you have to be conservative, explore numbers and do other analyses. We will certainly wait for Ernst & Young's study to be completed in the new year and look at the numbers recorded there, but then we will have to decide. It doesn't have to be postponed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U152	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U153	Ladies and gentlemen, I have written dozens of times and said that Rail Balticus contains the risk of a geographical, demographic and territorial disaster for Estonia. Of course, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U154	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U155	Thank you. This is the theme 'Mining Fosforite No 2'. All that has been said by hundreds and thousands of people, representatives of our creative elite, scientists at the Rome Club, paints such an ugly picture that in eight minutes you can no longer add colors or themes, but only make three more brush pulls. First brush pull. What does the talk with the mysterious whisper mean about the strategic importance of Rail Baltic? It widened so that tanks, diesel, horsebackback saddles, punks, and jackets could be carried by this railway. At this point, I would remind you that at the southern end of Rail Baltic there is the so-called Suwalk corridor, which is 100 kilometres wide. Cutting the rail link with Poland is not a matter of days, it is a matter of hours. At the northern end of the route is the Muuga harbour, which is just along the Estonian border, as Estonia has voluntarily abandoned three miles of the Estonian territorial sea. In other words, in the event of a military conflict, which is mysteriously insinuated, Rail Baltic gives the opportunity to drive the existing tanks back and forth, but not to increase their number. Note that the current NATO deterrent forces drove to Estonia by the sluggish Estonian railways and the goal has been achieved: we are protected. The new Rail Baltic will be, among other things, an object that can be crawled with a dynamite bag and a blind partisan or terrorist from both eyes, because you can't pass the path, a terrorist stumbles upon him. Rail Baltic is an object with no strategic value, but it will remain an attractive target for terrorists for the decades to come and will not be properly protected. Second brush pull: money. Whatever the case, Rail Baltic is economically loss-making. The numbers are different, but I will be brief. My good colleague, friend, student and the recent Chairman of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, Toomas Kivimägi, allowed me to quote him if we did not add something to his sentence again. So Rail and Baltic are like this: 'If we get zero, it's fine. " Thomas, get well! He's got a cold. But the thing is, if Rail Baltic exists, the Estonian state will have an additional cost of paying debts for its maintenance. For simplicity, I use the VEB Fund certificate example. In finance terms, the VEB Foundation certificate is just as simple as the light bulb on the ceiling of the room: it burns, it doesn't burn. The VEB Fund certificate is: money is, money is not. We still have the mess that was there. Rail Baltic costs EUR 5 billion, in the order of more than half of the Estonian budget, and much of the money comes from the European Union. It is true that the sum is distributed on top of the gang, Lithuania and Latvia are also participating. But wherever this money comes from, it is a financing that cannot be combined with the whole floor of securities: debts in the same way and in different ways, bonds in the second and third ways, futures, shares, guarantees, fourth and fifth ways project financing, TF liabilities, hedge funds, etc. The total debt burden of the Republic of Estonia, i.e. both in the country and in the private sector, will be under all this transfer of money. There's no escape. The worst part is you don't notice it at first. A phase shift of the so-called Ärma time effect or Utah project occurs. The actual debt will be incurred during the period when the expenditure has already been incurred, but it has not yet been missed. But it's gonna be too late soon. It has been said that a good pilot keeps a subconscious alternate aerodrome, so a good lawyer always keeps an eye on the subconscious where the owner changes a lot of money. Millions have been blown up now, but it's not too late. Third brush pull. Rail Baltic has no commercial and economic idea. When the railway is ready and there are no possibilities to move carts, gravel, shovels, and projectwriters consultants, there will be service jobs: railway guards, drivers, chargers, cashiers, repairers. Rail Baltic needs continuous repairs like Mäo's road and its bridges. The transit business, the true heroes of the success story of the Estonian economy, was the once-in-a-lifetime deal. It won't happen again. It was based on a customs border that separated us from Russia in strategic ports, Muuga and Kopli. There is no such factor in the case of Finland, and it will not happen again with Russia how we would not apologise to Russia for our bronze soldier. Because also northwest Russian goods that cannot be transported by railway of a different width do not provide the necessary capacity to support Rail Baltic. Rail Baltic is like an eternal servant who doesn't want to be a gentleman. We give, rent, give and sell our territory like permission to drive through our yard. If that's what we want, let's just say so. Before making decisions, however, we really need to think. We have a responsibility to our children and grandchildren; we are responsible to Estonia. I want to reiterate Kristen's position. If Rail Baltic doesn't come, there won't be any money. We're out of this thing, and we're gonna do the things we need to do. All these project leaders are moving on to peaceful reconstruction, but not here. You see, we are going to do our Estonian infra things. In 1941, The New Yorker published a cartoon with its famous signature. A man with drawing rollers, probably an engineer, is standing on a plane that has fallen down, saying, 'Well, back to the old drawing board. " This means that if the wrong thing has been designed from the beginning, you must start from the beginning. In the meantime, the money you spend is your tuition. There was an attempt to build a new broadcasting house for 70 mil. When two mil was wasted on design, the members of the Broadcasting Council said, "Oops, wrong thing! ' And we made a citizen's decision on 12 June 2012: yes, 2 million have been wasted, but 68 million will be left and that stupid house won't come. It's one of the proudest decisions I've ever made. We're not gonna keep doing stupid things. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U156	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U157	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If we were private individuals, we would be able to shape all kinds of opinions on the principle of'something I like and the other thing doesn't like' and, according to our education, interests and mood, give reasons why something should be different or remain the same. If we are representatives of the people and we have to make decisions, we must consider a lot of things. And these things definitely have a historical background that we can't get over or around. This background consists of two main elements. One is the history of our country and people, as far as we know it, and the other is our geographical and economic geography. Now, coming to the railroad: what was before the railroads? Before the railways, the current territory of the Estonian state and the settlement area of the Estonian people had been divided into several parts, between which it was almost impossible or at least very difficult to communicate. The two most important parts were North-Estonia, which was later called the Governorate of Estonia, which was an area from Tallinn to Narva, whose axis was the east-west route, and the second part was the so-called Northern Livonia. You have to understand Northern Livonia a little differently. Livonia with the centre in Riga was quite unusual from Estonia's point of view. It was the kind of land where the capital was radically split up by highways or routes that went through populated areas. There were hard-to-pass areas between each of these sectors; they are also very well seen today. By the way, Estonia had exactly the same structure before World War II in Petseri County, where the city of Petseri was in the middle and the sectors were disbanded from it. At present, there are opportunities to move between sectors, but in the old days there was only one option: the first was to go to Petseri and then to another. The main route in Livonia has been in the direction of Riga.Võnnu, the former official Livonian Order centre, called Cesis by Latvians, then Valmiera, then Volmari, then Valga and Tartu. This road has gone about to Jõhvi, where he used to dive into the forests of Avinurme. It was a mild - tempered land, where there was a clear path. There was another direction: basically from Viljandi to Riga. The neighborhood of Pärnu was relatively random to Livonia. This was the so-called "no-one-interested area" of the forest, whose only link was to the west by sea. This beautiful scheme was destroyed by the construction of railways in the Russian Empire, which began in the 1860's. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U158	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U159	Railways were built in the Russian Empire according to the principle of radicality, the centre was the city of St Petersburg. One railway went quite north, one towards Helsinki, one very important and the first railway in Estonia was the Peterburi-Tallinn line and then on to the port of war in Paldiski. The important railway was the European railway, which went not towards Poland from Riga and Riga, but towards Königsberg, which should also be the right place for the future route if the political circumstances in Russia and the Eastern Prussia currently in the hands of Russia still allow. For us, it is extremely important that one day, during the construction of this railway, a fundamental path decision was made on how to go from Pihkva to Riga. There were two choices. Could have gone south from the Haanja-Aluksne Upland, but the northern route was chosen, which runs mainly along the flat road we call Võru-Petser's reed. That's how we got a railroad through Valga and Valka. It's very important. The development of all South Estonia would have been completely different if the southern route had been chosen. Now, the cohesion of the Estonian people began before the railways, and it existed much earlier spiritually. 1869 was the first singing party in Tartu. They went there with horses, but there was a sense of nationality. Ten years later, when there was another singing party, there was a train by rail. I would argue that the second main source of the formation of the Estonian state existed from the moment it was decided to connect these two railways, i.e. to build a line to Tapa-Tartu-Valga. It gave us a real chance. After the construction of these railways, very wonderful things happened in Estonia. In fact, new settlements were established in Estonia along the railway lines, and a happy village emerged at each station. Võru is certainly a very important city, but Antsla, for example, is also important. The northern route has a typical example of Jõgeva. And the last city that arose in Estonia with this great railway construction of Estonian time: the town of Põlva was formed by a small church village that was not necessary for anyone near the Petseri line. And that's how the Estonian railway was completed. Most of them are the so-called dead end lines starting in Tallinn. By the way, the linaveoline that started in Antsla once took to Pärnu. This is the basis that we have to take into account. There are people living on the railroad, there have been and there is an economic activity. This is our bone plan, on which our country and nation are built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U160	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U161	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will take this opportunity to make some of the arguments put forward here in favour of Rail Baltic. Mr Marrand's Social Democratic Party was the first to speak on behalf of the Group. He mentioned briefly three points which have shaped their view that Rail Baltic is useful. First, a political decision. I think that's the most important thing. That's right, that's the political decision. The question is whether to be a shield and politician and to make a decision based on the fact that we can at least pay for some part at first with Brussels money, but let what comes later come. There'll be more than four years anyway, and by then we'll be out of this house. Let the next generation worry. The second option is to make a political decision, thinking ahead of what will be discussed in this Chamber in 20 or 30 years' time when most of us will no longer be in Parliament. Maybe a few younger ones are. Therefore, the decision to build Rail Baltic is a political decision, but a short-sighted political decision. Secondly, the security issue. I am pleased that Jaanus Marrandi is not in the Committee on National Defence or in the Committee on European Union Affairs, because it is simply foolish to claim that this railroad would be a great security guarantee for us. And I don't like stupid people. As Igor Gräzin said very well: from a security point of view, our problem is Suwalk Corridor 100 kilometres, which is between Kaliningrad and Belarus, and which, as of today, would take between one hour and two minutes for Russian troops. Whether that railroad is there or not, it doesn't matter at all. So when we talk about security, the hope of bringing additional troops through this crisis situation is naive. The question is, how can we secure Suwalk Corridor? If it is secured, it does not matter whether the railway is there or not, because additional troops can be delivered without the railway. Therefore, foolishness should have no place to decide on this issue. Thirdly, an economic issue. Mr Marrandi said that perhaps in the future relations with the eastern neighbour will also improve. I thought it was absolutely Kremlin-minded. For God's sake, how can you say that?! Maybe economic relations with Russia will improve!? And vice versa: if you do not support Rail Baltic, then you are pro-Kremlin-minded, so has been claimed so far. Thus, to improve by saying that suddenly economic relations with Russia will improve and transit will increase through Estonia, and then we need Rail Baltic, we need demagogy. But it doesn't surprise me much either. When we are talking about the potential economic benefits that may come in 10 to 20 years, I would remind you that we are currently losing 250 to 350 million euros in the state budget compared to Latvia, because there are no cargo ships flying the flag of Estonia. Latvia, on the other hand, is making a profit from it. So, talk about the increase in transit and commercial benefits in the context of Rail Baltic, while Estonia, as a maritime state, has no cargo ships flying our flag, is just stupid. But it doesn't have to pay too much attention to stupidity. The following statement, this came from the representative of the Reform Party Group, Kristen Michal: Estonian people want Rail Baltic. Well, if that's what they want, let's prove it with a referendum! Let's see how many people do. We are in favour of democracy. If 51% of people say we want Rail Baltic, and they are familiar with all the risk assessments, as well as the potential economic benefits, there is no problem. It was the same with the law of cohabitation. We also said then that we were going to have a referendum. If 51% says yes, we want it, then it's okay, let's do it. But no, there's no wish for a referendum, there's fear because they know they're lying. Today's performers, who are professionals in their field, also told me that two opinion polls had been conducted. One took place in September, it was publicly organised by the Rail Baltic movement, and the other took place at the initiative of Indrek Tarand and the Green Group in the European Parliament. Both results showed that only 30% of respondents supported Rail Baltic. And they are probably the constituents of most of the Reform Party. I do not want to criticise the good partners in the opposition, but I do not want to paralyze the claims with populism, which is usually blamed on conservatives. There is no need to be a populist and to confirm that this is what the people of Estonia want. Let's have a referendum and see how many people want! Mr. Metsoja of the IRL said he believed in it. Well, you can believe in God or someone else, but pure faith isn't enough to go on a project like this. And speaking of the Centre Party, we have received information that the Centre Party has claimed to certain journalists or certain people that they have changed their position, because now that they are in government, they have accessed classified material and a completely different picture has opened up to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U162	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U163	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U164	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U165	Thank you. So let us be in favour of open politics. Bring out the classified materials that prove to everyone that Rail Baltic is undoubtedly a very good and useful project that all the people of Estonia need! Until it's done, it's just politicianism and changing its color. They're like chameleons. And they act like they turn their heads where the wind is. Today, 180 degrees have been changed in three weeks, not only on the question of Rail Baltic, but also on the issue of e-elections, the question of electing the President and the issue of road tax. It is simply embarrassing and shameful and does not honor the party of the Prime Minister, whom we have respected so far as a good opposition partner. And finally. I don't know how many people have read it, but last week's Express had a very good article in my opinion from one of the best literary critics in Estonia, Mihkel Kunnus. In his opinion article, he pointed out very well the nature of Rail Baltic today, in the 21st century. To conclude, I quote him: 'But it seems that at the moment, one of the most important remedial tactics of the collective (and individual) haunting at the level of the government has been concentrated in the topic of Rail Baltic, the attitude of which is that it is a stupidity that destroys the future and irreversibly undermines Estonia's nature and economic capacity, but it has already begun and must therefore be completed. Adding here the predatory new law on forest management to crime, we can say that together with our current and previous government (t) we are perfectly insane from the point of view of one of the central convictions of edmundburke's conservativeness, according to which 'a vibrant society is a treaty between the living, the dead and those who are yet to come'. Dead, but for future generations, mankind's most embarrassing and disgraceful century, 20th century, has already left empty deposits, a shattered environment, a long list of extinct species and a dangerously heat-binding atmosphere. Locally, it is intended to combine the high-speed rail between the stumps of the disused natives, with which these few remaining descendants of the natives can squeal for the halal meat of Berlin or the Cologne New Year's Eve party. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U166	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U167	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners! Listening and watching this Rail Baltic discussion, and not only in this hall, but also in what has been before, I had to remember the Soviet-era slogan 'Communicism beats, because it is right'. Today we are trying to make it clear that Rail Baltic is coming and it is being built because it is right. But an Estonian is a thoughtful and rational person who will always question such great promises, wants to know the background, the reasons, the cost. Unfortunately, we have not learned anything like that. In the case of Rail Baltic, there are considerably more questions than answers. What will be the final cost of this project? Do we get all the money we need from the European Union? Is the choice of route justified? Is such a choice of technology justified? Is dividing Estonia with a new route with relatively few passes justified? Where do these goods come from, and where do the people who will ride their trains come from? What will be the later operational cost of this vast infrastructure? We have absolutely no answers, but this is not a decade for Estonia, but I would say, even a project of the century. Such a facility cannot be built on empty stories and empty promises, only on political desire. The world is evolving, the technology is progressing, not with seven-pence steps, but at cosmic speed. Let us see what is being done in the world and what iron roads are being built! I'm sorry, but what we're planning as the construction of our century is the 19th century railroad in the 21st century. We should look to the future. And if we do not look far into the future, let us look at what is being done in the world! In China rail trains travel 380 kilometres per hour, in India a similar railway is being built, in Morocco, Africa a railway between Casablanca and Tangier, where trains start to travel 380 kilometres per hour, in England a similar one is being built. But we're gonna be moving the Czech Czech Czech Czech Czech Czech Czech Republic with freight trains passing 120 kilometres per hour and high-speed trains crossing 240 kilometres per hour. In America, Hyperloop, a train speed of 1,200 km/h, was already built between Los Angeles and San Francisco. It is planned to be built in Poland, as well as between St Petersburg and Moscow, specifically for freight transport. Hyperloop trains are intended to move between Stockholm and Helsinki. But we'll be satisfied with the 19th century railroad. It's all the weirder that we have no idea where these goods come from. If we put billions into this construction, it is not possible that our transit tariffs will go down and goods will move through Estonia from Finland and elsewhere in the Nordic countries. Even today, goods do not pass through Estonia because our prices are high and certainly will rise further. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U168	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U169	If we build something, we build something like Skype, with which we stand out in the world! If we find that something needs to be done to get to Berlin in 18 minutes, and in less than an hour, let's do Hyperloop! Then maybe people would wonder why they'd go on a plane, take the right train, don't have to log all day or all night on the railroad. If Hyperloop is faster and cheaper than the plane, people might start thinking that. And the goods can be logged on just like they are now. We'll fix the existing railroad and it'll work! He already exists. Hyperloop roads are on the poles, there is no need for any road tunnel, no road bridge, these roads can also be carried through nature reserves because they do not harm nature. Let us be innovative, let us look to the future if the people want! We're told the people want Rail Baltic. Actually, polls show I don't want to. Let's make this clear to people! Like I said, let's be rational, let's be thinking people! When we are presented with clear arguments, clear facts, that it is useful to us, that it is necessary to build then, but not by looking at the past, but by looking to the future. Not that we're doing some kind of project today, because we've been promised some kind of money. But maybe in 20 to 30 years, we'll be plagued by hair, because what we did was already obsolete and out of date. Only the shields do that. I believe that we are wise, thinking and intelligent people, and that if we do something, we will do it prudently, we will do it democratically, so that we can all say the word, we can discuss it. It is not that somewhere in the back rooms of the government and the European Union and in the committees, things are being put in place for us that we cannot ultimately be satisfied with and that will be our huge burden for decades. So let's look to the future, and if we do something, really innovative! Unfortunately, we are running out of time now and we cannot discuss this issue again here in the Riigikogu Hall today. But this is the highest forum in which it was possible to bring this issue. However, there are still many questions and I invite all those who wish to discuss the matter further, who have some ideas and suggestions...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U170	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U171	... On to the hall behind the coffee cup of Kalevipoeg to continue this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U172	Honourable Riigikogu! I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U173	Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Accounting initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Commission's rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U174	Good manager! Good waitress! The draft law amending the Accounting Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 6 June 2016. The first reading of the draft act took place in Riigikogu's plenary session on 12 October and the first reading was closed. The main objective of the draft law amending the Accounting Act is to update the requirements on original documents and to lay down a regulation that supports the introduction of machine-manufacturing accounting. During the proceedings of the draft, representatives of Envoice OÜ, Estonian Taxpayers' Association and Estonian Small and Medium Enterprises Association, or EVEA, submitted a written joint return to the Economic Commission. The Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association (ITL) presented its views twice. On 4 November, a preparatory working group meeting took place at the committee, chaired by Urve Palo, rapporteur for the Steering Committee. The initiator of the draft was Kurmet Ojamaa, Taivo Põrk and Marge Lepp from the Ministry of Finance, Janek Rozov from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Jaanus Põder and Ivar Veskioja Envoice OÜ as representatives, Hiie Marrand as representatives of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, Villu Otsmann and Evelyn Sepp as representatives of EVEA and Keilin Tammepärg and Sander Aasna as representatives of ITL. The draft provides for the obligation to settle machine-operated invoices (e-invoices) in the public sector. The main concerns of the representatives of the joint return are related to the market situation in which three operators have agreed on e-invoice roaming: Omniva, Telema and Fitek and the entry of new operators is not encouraged. Although the draft explanatory memorandum states that operators need to cooperate closely with each other to ensure the circulation of e-invoices, the draft does not itself regulate the obligation for operators operating on the market to cooperate with new entrants when sending and receiving e-invoices. The parties to the joint return considered that this would encourage the creation of a natural monopoly by the State. The reference also indicated that businesses would face additional burdens in relation to e-invoicing. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Accounting Act at its meetings on 5 and 6 December. After Urve Palo took up the position of minister, a new rapporteur for the commission had to be appointed to the draft. A speaker was appointed here at the meeting on 5 December. At the same meeting, a draft overview of the initiator's representative was heard in connection with the renewed composition of the Economic Commission and the problems raised by the working group were discussed. The meeting was attended by Kurmet Ojamaa, Taivo Põrk and Marge Lepp from the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association and Envoice OÜ and CEO of ITL Jüri Jõema and CEO of AS Telema Hele Hammer. Kurmet Ojamaa, representative of the Ministry of Finance, added that since the working group could not dispel doubts about the functioning of the market, compromises could be sought. Therefore, there is no obligation for businesses to switch to e-invoicing under the current draft. However, when companies submit e-invoices, they must comply with the established standard. Now the deadlines. The country must be ready to accept standard e-invoices from 1 March 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As far as accession is concerned, we agreed that the National Information Systems Centre will provide an opportunity for all economic software manufacturers to start mediating e-invoicing in a common system across the board and the state is ready to play this role. In summary, there will be no e-invoicing obligation for businesses next year. The new law amending the Accounting Act will cut red tape and not increase the burden on businesses; e-invoicing will only have to be transferred to the public sector next year. This requirement will apply on 1 March. I would like to emphasise once again that businesses will be able to submit e-invoices to the State from 1 July if they do so according to the standard. And since the market with all operators did not work, new software companies did not fit into the market, it has now been agreed that the Registries and Information Systems Centre will launch such a service on the market so that all economic software manufacturers can start to mediate e-invoices throughout Estonia in a single system. This approach reduces the risk that still exists in the air. The eligibility of the system for start-up may be achieved by the second quarter of 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U175	Any questions for the waitress? Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I read that 'the obligation to prepare a consolidated group annual report is exempt from the obligation to draw up a subsidiary whose all the shares belong to a single group'. Was there a debate on this, or has anyone asked what happens to those companies that belong to one hundred percent of local governments and are also part of their consolidation group? What about these annual reports?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U177	The rules are exactly the same as for private operators. If membership is one hundred percent, you don't need a report because in one of the accounts, all these work is done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-13_U178	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Six amendments have been tabled to the 259 and all have been tabled by the commission. Proposal No 1, No 2, No 3, No 4, No 5 and No 6. The second reading of bill 259 is over, and so is our sitting today. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 1.50 p.m.
