ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Have a nice work week. First of all, we are waiting for the members of the public who want to hand over the drafts or inquiries. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on the draft 'Announcement of the representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee'. According to § 2 (3) of the Agreement between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark concerning the Nordic Investment Bank and § 2 (3) of the Act on the ratification of the Payment Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Nordic Investment Bank, the Riigikogu decides to appoint a new representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee. In the period from 1 June 2016 to 31 May 2018, it could be Remo Holsmer. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U3	Thank you. There are no further initiatives. I've adopted a bill. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we also take it to the procedure. Incoming check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. The agenda shall be as follows: The Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed to remove the following items from the agenda of this working week: the first item on the agenda of the Tuesday sitting, which is the second reading of the draft law implementing the Law on partnership initiated by 38 members of the Riigikogu, and, of course, the first item on the Thursday sitting, which is the third reading of the same bill. With this clarification, honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the approval of the weekly procedure. Please take a stand and vote. There are 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there is no one against, with 3 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. On the basis of the agenda approved by... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Riigikogu, I understand that you have many things to talk about among yourselves, but this can be done very well outside the plenary Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U4	The first item on the agenda is the inquiry by Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Rein Ratas, Enn Eesmaa, Dmitri Dmitriev, Andrei Novikov, Märt Sults, Marika Tuus-Laul, Peeter Ernits, Viktor Vassiliev, Jaanus Karilaid, Erki Savisaar, Jüri Ratas and Siret Kotka. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you all know that Ida-Virumaa is an extremely important industrial country in the Estonian context, which needs a separate approach on many issues. This is very well understood, for example, by the Ministry of the Interior, because policemen working in Ida-Virumaa are paid an additional EUR 150 per month for regional fees, which could, of course, be higher. But in fact, the social sector deserves the same attention. The figures for healthy life years in Ida-Virumaa are significantly lower than the average in Estonia. For people in Ida-Virumaa, the living time without restrictions is 48.4 years, and the Estonian average is 54.1 years. I've heard the view that the reason is that there's too much alcohol being consumed in our neighborhood. However, this is not true, as the number of consumers of alcohol on a regular basis is, according to statistics, lower in our county than in Estonia on an average. At the same time, the number of people with disabilities in Ida-Virumaa has increased steadily. As we know, the chain is as strong as its weakest link. Therefore, we must certainly make more contributions to the social sphere, in particular to medicine. The staff costs related to doctors, nurses and care staff of the Health Insurance Fund are presented in a common line in the budget, where there is no separate county, including Ida-Virumaa. The county wage bill is not separately planned. An important step towards improving the situation could be to introduce a regional fee for Ida-Virumaa medical staff, as this would lead more specialists to come to work in Ida-Virumaa. Of course, it would help to keep the people of Ida-Virumaa healthy. In this regard, we have a number of questions for Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U6	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu and heirs! I will answer the three questions you have asked. The first question: 'The working conditions and salaries of medical personnel have been agreed in an extended national collective agreement. Unfortunately, a nationwide, expanding collective agreement is not a sufficient measure to call and keep medical workers in Ida-Virumaa. Following the example of the procedure for establishing the remuneration of police officers and its effectiveness, it is appropriate to ask why the conditions for the remuneration of health workers are not taken into account in the light of regional differences. " In the last days of last year, i.e. after your inquiry had been submitted, the Ministry of Social Affairs received a proposal from the Estonian Medical Association, the Estonian Health Care Professional Professionals' Association and the Estonian Nurses' Association to start negotiations for a national collective agreement for the following years. This new collective agreement is for the period 2017 and 2018 and indeed one point in the project submitted by the parties will address the issue you raised, i.e. regional wage differentiation. This concerns not only Ida-Virumaa, but also other regions. Certainly, the parties to the collective agreement negotiations, which the Ministry of Social Affairs is not, but the Hospital Association and several health representative organisations are considering this issue thoroughly. It should be emphasised here that the lack of medical personnel outside Tallinn and Tartu is a wider concern than the lack of medical personnel outside of Tallinn and Tartu is only the case with Ida-Virumaa. It is a fact that outside these two centres, the average age of health care professionals is affected both by doctors working in hospitals and by family doctors, and unfortunately young doctors have not been interested in going outside Tallinn and Tartu to work. Various measures have been taken, including medical start-ups, to get them to work outside large centres, but this has not been effective. I'm sure the Ministry of Social Affairs is seriously discussing how the situation can be improved. I consider it positive that the Ministry of the Interior pays an extra fee to its employees in Ida-Virumaa. However, the feedback from the power structures is such that the drought of police workers has not resolved it to the end. This has certainly provided additional motivation, but outside large centres, the shortage of new specialists remains a major problem, including in Ida-Virumaa. The question is, in principle, whether the most effective way to solve the problem of access to medical care in Ida-Virumaa is to pay a premium there or whether it would be more appropriate to introduce different health policies. Eventually, hospitals have the right to differentiate the salaries of doctors, and they do. One particular major plan, which is in work and which also concerns not only Ida-Viru County but also other regions, concerns the strengthening of primary medical care, i.e. at the level of family doctors. As is known, the health centres project has a total investment of EUR 113 million. There will be additional capacity for family doctors' teams in the form of doctors and nurses, as well as additional services that people can obtain more easily. There will also be a new model for financing health centres. That's one side of it. The other is that there is a great concern in general hospitals that it is very difficult to find new specialists to replace good doctors who retire. General hospitals are one in Ida-Virumaa, it is Narva Hospital, but there are also, of course, in other counties, and they all have the same problem, which was discussed very thoroughly today by the Social Affairs Committee. It would be reasonable to agree that general hospitals provide specialist medical care in cooperation with a higher level hospital, be it Ida-Viru Central Hospital in Ida-Virumaa or regional hospitals elsewhere. We are seriously discussing this plan in the Ministry in the coming weeks and on 1 February, which is next week's Monday, I will travel to Ida-Viru County to discuss how cooperation between Ida-Viru Central Hospital and Narva Hospital can be enhanced in order to ensure quality medical care in Narva City in cooperation with Ida-Viru Central Hospital. The second question is a very long question, but the point is how it is intended to attract health professionals to work in Ida-Virumaa. As I said, this is certainly not achievable with one specific policy measure. Raising wages is one way to go. We have considered 12 measures that are currently in work and which, hopefully, will arrive in practice in the near future in cooperation with professional associations and hospitals. The first of these also concerns medical training at the University of Tartu. We are discussing the possibility of changing the medical student residency regime so that it is mandatory to pass a part of it in Ida-Virumaa. Perhaps we would like all future doctors who are currently studying at the University of Tartu to work in Ida-Virumaa for some part of their residency. This would serve two purposes. First of all, there would be more fresh, most recent medical experts in Ida-Virumaa. This would hopefully improve the coherence of medical care in this area with the rest of Estonia's health care system. And on the other hand, if people have been in Ida-Virumaa for some time during the residency period, there is also a greater chance that they could stay there in the future. Currently, most residents in Ida-Virumaa do not choose residency as their destination, and Ida-Viru Central Hospital and especially Narva Hospital have serious concerns about involving young professionals. I think it would be wise to take further incentives to allow young residents to work in Ida-Viru County for a while. As a result, the healthcare system would certainly win more widely, as residents would be better able to understand the Russian language. This is also needed for health professionals to work in other cities, including Tallinn. The second proposal, which we are working on and which I also spoke about in the previous Question Time, concerns the lure of young family doctors, while perhaps not the right word, perhaps'motivation' is better to start working outside larger cities. We want to launch a certain mentoring program in cooperation with family doctors. I don't know if that's the right word, but it was in the paper today, and I used it last week. Basically, this is a smoother transition programme, where an older family doctor takes up a young family doctor's practice, gradually gives him his patients and all the practice management, and then when he retires, the new family doctor is already familiar with the patients and can start working right away. That's the plan we're working on. The third issue concerns the employment of health care workers from third countries in Estonian hospitals. The health sector is a mobile sector, which means that doctors go from Finland to Sweden, doctors go from Sweden to Norway, doctors go from Norway to the USA. I'll simplify it a little bit, but that's the way it is. Our doctors will then take their place in Finland. And if this is the case, then we must take steps for our part and, in time, Estonian hospitals have found good health specialists from Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. Initially, it is difficult to get into work in the Estonian health care system because of quite confusing regulation, and therefore a draft is being prepared in the Ministry of Social Affairs, which will hopefully reach the Riigikogu in the coming months. This simplifies the procedure, which would allow doctors from third countries to have the necessary accreditation and employment in Estonian hospitals. In particular, it could alleviate the drought of doctors in Ida-Viru County. The third question is a little more general. The previous speaker also said that health indicators are worse in Ida-Virumaa than in Estonia. Inquiries ask why there has not been a separate development plan for areas with health indicators below the Estonian average and the reasons for the situation analysed. The population health agenda, aimed at increasing life expectancy and the number of healthy years of life, is general and does not lead to significant changes in areas of concern. Based on the experience of foreign countries, it can be argued that a number of components are essential to achieve good results in this area. Specific hospital arrangements are only one of the factors affecting life expectancy and general public health. One might even say that this is not the most important factor. If we look at the different indicators of the population health development plan in the last year, we can see very clearly that the health of the population in different areas of Estonia is not so much linked to the well or poorly working medical institutions in these areas, but to the air pollution and other environmental pollution in the region, how high it is, it is a very important indicator of relative poverty, and how many risk behaviours and other health-damaging influences are there. These circumstances have been referred to, but it is unfortunate that the medical sector is primarily concerned with the management of the consequences. In this work, the Estonian health system is very effective, but we really need to pay more attention to disease prevention. Maintaining health needs to become more focused. A number of important aspects must be taken into account here. From a public health point of view, issues related to alcohol and tobacco consumption are very important. We intend to focus more seriously on issues related to HIV and drug addiction, which also affect Ida-Viru County very directly, causing a number of health damage. Of course, they also worsen the overall population health indicators. Certainly, a very large proportion of these poor figures are linked to the social problems in Ida-Virumaa. The socio-economic situation there is difficult: Ida-Viru County has higher unemployment and lower incomes. Unfortunately, all this leaves a mark on the health of these people, and so it is clear that the health system will have to deal much more with prevention there. The health system can address health problems that have already arisen as effectively as possible, but broader social, labour market and economic policies must ensure that the overall indicators of the region are improved. Steps have certainly been taken in this regard, but more really needs to be done to achieve good results in order to improve health indicators in Ida-Viru County. Unfortunately, the health system alone cannot solve all human health problems. He may be able to control them, but it's expensive. In this context, we are currently developing various measures in the area of labour market, economic and social policy, but since my response time is running out, I can tell you more about this by answering your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U8	Any questions for the Minister? Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is, of course, very positive that you think and work towards solving these problems. I think the idea you suggested that people would be sent to work in Ida-Virumaa for a while is a very good idea that maybe grew out of Soviet times when something like this was done. But my proposal is simple and concrete. I think it should be dealt with as quickly as possible. I have met well with many medical staff who have plans to leave Ida-Viru County or anywhere else in Estonia at all. The question is also very simple and specific: would such a rate, if they were paid a few hundred euros, prevent them from escaping from Estonia? I usually say yes. I understand that this is, of course, a very simple proposal, but at least it will provide an opportunity to do something quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U10	I believe that if we asked the workers in different sectors if they would like a higher salary, everyone would agree. And it's not ironic at all. Indeed, the increase in the salaries of medical staff is certainly one of the priorities for ensuring the continuity and growth of the medical team. If we look at the last two years, the salaries of health care workers have risen by at least 10% in both years, which is higher than the average increase in Estonia. In this respect, competitiveness has grown significantly. And the salaries of medical personnel will certainly increase in the coming years. The Health Insurance Fund has taken this into account in its financial plan. Collective bargaining, of course, will determine the final framework. But as I said, the only measure of wage increases is not enough. This is also what I have been discussing with people in the area of internal security in Ida-Virumaa, that unfortunately, in this county, not all police positions have been filled and there is still no queue at the door. So there are more problems in Ida-Virumaa that need to be solved in the same way. As I said, the medical sector alone cannot improve public health indicators. However, in the context of collective bargaining, this regional premium will certainly also be discussed. Whether this is the most effective way to ensure high quality medical care anywhere in Estonia can be discussed. There are both pros and cons. I assure you that the existence and sustainability of medical staff in Ida-Virumaa and, of course, all of Estonia are priorities for me. Due to the particularities of Ida-Viru County and the size of this county, this is an extremely sharp problem. However, we also have some specific health management solutions for cooperation between Narva Hospital and Ida-Viru Central Hospital. At first glance, there seems to be some kind of communication problem. There is fear of locking up Narva Hospital, which of course no human wants or plans to do in a city with 60,000 inhabitants. Of course the hospital stays. The question is how to ensure even better medical care in this city. I believe that we can achieve concrete plans and actions during this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U11	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U12	Good manager and waitress! I know there are doctors from third countries working in Ida-Virumaa. How many are there now? In particular, I am interested in the extent to which there is a need or what plans are made as to how many of them are wanted to be imported into Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U13	As of today, we are more concerned about filling in medical treatment in the future. There are few specialists missing in hospitals, but we are also looking at a broader trend. Outside the major centers, the average age of doctors rises rapidly. We must create a framework for hiring specialists when some people have retired. The country doesn't import anyone. What I was talking about concerns the establishment of regulation for hospitals as employers so that they can employ healthcare professionals from third countries. This need is assessed by the hospital and it is proposed that the University of Tartu evaluates the competence of a specific doctor in cooperation with the Health Board. Medical staff must meet all qualification requirements in order to provide quality medical care in Estonia. I can't tell by heart how many doctors from third countries work in the Estonian health care system, but in general they have come to us a few singles a year. I don't think there's any mass coming, but we'll definitely hire single doctors in the future. There is also a greater concern with nurses who are not enough in the health care system. And, of course, there is a lack of carers, especially in larger cities, whose wages are not competitive enough. After all, there are simple jobs outside the health sector and it is difficult to get employees there. As far as doctors are concerned, we are more or less reaching the optimal number of doctors for the Estonian population. But if we look at the future forecast, the average age of both family doctors and specialist doctors outside the big cities is rising. We need to develop regulation so that hospitals can have the necessary staff and offer medical care everywhere in Estonia according to prescribed criteria.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U14	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U15	Thank you. Dear Minister, We also had a meeting of the Social Affairs Committee today, where you also admitted that the situation in Ida-Viru County is worse than elsewhere and that it is difficult to get health workers there. But the options that you proposed to solve the problem, such as cooperation between different hospitals, should take place in all regions. I don't see anything specific about Ida-Viru County. However, can you presently point out something that will help to improve the situation in Ida-Virumaa? Indeed, people's health is worse there, and doctors do not want to go to work there, so that the problems there cannot be solved in general terms. This is a different region and needs a specific approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U16	I am not going to talk about the broader public health programmes that have been implemented and implemented here sometimes. I already mentioned them once. It is certainly important to reduce the environmental and public health impact of the oil shale sector. In this regard, we have been moving in the right direction over the last ten years. This industry has become 'health-friendly'. We have carried out a study on the health effects of oil shale mining and processing, which is also accessible. The new oil shale development plan, which I believe the Committee on the Environment discussed today, has also reflected this issue and is certainly one of the broader topics related to mineral extraction in Ida-Virumaa. Of the more specific directions, I mentioned the fight against HIV and drugs as a clear priority, which has a major impact on the East of Viru County. Much has been said about the reform of working capacity and people with reduced working capacity. In addition to the work capacity reform that has entered into force, which, unfortunately, only addresses the consequences, we have the second part of the 'work capacity reform' in the development process, the content of which is to prevent work-related health damage. In fact, we would like to ensure that people do not lose their job, but can work in a way that keeps them able to work. In the medical sector in particular, we have a plan to cover the largest number of towns in the county of Ida-Viru with health centres, in addition to Harjumaa, as there people are concentrated in large cities. Thus, the national programme of health centres is a very large part of Ida-Viru County. This is also justified because there are many people in large cities. The specific and specific measure concerns closer cooperation between Ida-Viru Central Hospital and Narva Hospital in order to provide quality care throughout the county, including in Narva, where it is currently difficult in certain disciplines.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U17	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U18	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. There's no harm without good. The longer the queues with doctors, the less medical access, the fewer people get medical attention, the fewer people get a diagnosis. Then they'll die healthy. But my question concerns the salaries of medical personnel. You mentioned positively that the salaries of medical staff have risen by 10% a year. I have a simple schoolboy task for you: if they continue to rise by 10% a year, how many years will we reach the level of the five wealthiest countries in Europe with the salaries of our medical staff?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U19	We must, of course, take account of the social balance, both with regard to the salaries of medical workers and, of course, more generally. I am sure that we all want to be able to pay the highest salary in Europe for public sector workers, but we must take into account the prosperity of our country. Of course, in many areas of life, the wages of Estonian specialists are lower than we would like. Whether they are teachers, be they internal security workers, cultural workers, as well as medical workers. However, I would like to say that the central state budget for wage increases only became priority areas this year and, compared to all other public sector workers, the salary increase for medical workers has been almost twice as high. For example, teachers' salaries are rising by just over 5%. This is, in my opinion, a strong and important signal. I have met representatives of the representative organisations of medical professionals and discussed these issues. One of their most important messages is that wage increases should be quite stable. Only then can current and future medical staff be sure that the health care system is developing in the right direction and that it makes sense for them to stay in Estonia and build their career here. There should be a general agreement that the salaries of medical staff are a priority and that they will not rise by half at the same time, but at a rather tangible pace. And when we look at the trend of the last year, the drain of medical personnel has become a little bit, but smaller. Somewhere this balance point is, but to answer what kind of pay people will no longer go to Finland is difficult. I guess it's very individualized for every person. And they don't just move to another country because of the higher salary. It is also a question of the organisation of work. A lot of people say that there are not enough nurses in Estonia, and that is why doctors prefer to work in Finland. It is about family life, which society wants to raise their children and in which educational system they need to train them. But, of course, pay must be competitive. We strive for this, and as of this year, the nurses' salary is about 100% of the Estonian average and the doctors' salary is about twice as high as the nurses' salary. Of course, in the coming years, it will be important that wages in these sectors do not fall. The Health Insurance Fund has taken into account in its balance sheet forecast that wage increases will still come in the coming years, but, as I said, collective bargaining on this issue has only just begun.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U20	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'll come back to the questions of the Ida-Viru Central Hospital. Ida-Viru Central Hospital has a rehabilitation and care clinic in Kohtla-Järve Järve district. But how well do you consider all rehabilitation and care in Ida-Viru County to be organised? I know there's a local government that's set up a unit like this itself. For example, there is a maintenance centre in the area beyond the mountain. Does the state also intend to intervene in the development of this service and in any way contribute to the development of this area in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U22	Ida-Viru County is not quite unique in this matter and in many other health care arrangements. A large number of the problems or bottlenecks that have been highlighted here today are broader and more estonian. If we are talking about "old care hospitals," or "inpatient nursing care" with today's name, there are certainly problems with the availability of this service. This discussion has moved on like two tracks at a time. On the one hand, inpatient nursing care has been discussed in the health care system, the availability of which is indeed limited because the contract volume of the health insurance fund does not allow all to receive it in full. On the other hand, there has been a broader debate, particularly on care for the elderly, which is rather part of care homes and thus social protection services. We have agreed in the government union to analyse the issue of maintenance burden in a broader way. The task force set up at the State Chancellery has already begun its work. The group also investigates the problems of informal care. Informal signals from many parts of the world have also so far been that care for older people has been organised in a very uneven manner as a social service. Some municipalities provide adequate support for their elderly nursing homes, some not. If children or other loved ones have enough money, they'll pay for this place. If this option is not available and there is no pension, then the problem is. In such cases, unfortunately, in some places, the elderly have been taken to nursing hospitals, where they have been kept for 21 days at the expense of the health insurance fund, in an inescapable situation where their relatives cannot care for their loved ones all day. And then they've put the next one in line for a hospital like this. In fact, nursing care has been used in situations where there is a real need for social protection care. This problem needs systematic reflection, both in terms of health and social protection. We have started this work at the State Chancellery and also at the Ministry. Certainly in the near future, there will be quite an emotional discussion about the health fund's contracts for nursing care. Indeed, the volume of contracts is less than the capacity to provide the service. However, as regards rehabilitation and rehabilitation systems in general, one of the Ministry's priorities for this year is to create a single rehabilitation system covering the services of the Social Insurance Board, the services of the unemployment fund for the working people and also the rehabilitation services in the health care sector, which are a separate pot. At present, this system is very, very fragmented. Some services are financed from one source, others from another, they are subject to one set of conditions, then other conditions. This does not provide certainty for patients or carers, and neither do health care institutions have sufficient understanding of how to organise everything reasonably. However, this is not a specific concern for Ida-Viru County. Overall, I recognise that there has been too little systemic convergence in the whole area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U23	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In answering the second question of inquiry, it concerned how to attract health professionals to Ida-Virumaa, you outlined three action plans that are under way. The first concerns the medical residency, some of which should be compulsory in Ida-Virumaa. That's my question. The first thought, of course, is that it is a very good opportunity, and inevitably the next thought is why it has not been done before. Could you please open a little bit or specify how you intend to make it compulsory? So far, however, it has been voluntary and the student chooses where he can complete the residency. We remember the time of 25 or 30 years ago when people were forced to go somewhere, but it hasn't been done in the last few decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U25	We are quite in the initial phase of agreeing on a concrete solution. We've talked about it with the Ida-Viru Central Hospital, we've talked briefly to the university. But, of course, this requires an agreement between the university, the hospital and also the financier, in this case the Ministry of Social Affairs, so that the system can be rational. "Conspiracy" may be a little harsh. Rather, it is that we would like to encourage this practice. This assumes, however, that we have a rather clear and reasonable plan, which the whole residency in Ida-Virumaa would mean, what is specially done in Ida-Virumaa. This certainly requires the readiness of Ida-Viru hospitals to be more flexible than the normal framework provides as a basis for internships or residency. And probably this would also mean some kind of extra cost to the residents, at least we have proposed this as a single proposal. Of course, it is unwise to force someone where they do not want to work at all. This is especially the case with doctors. If the doctor still doesn't want to do his job, I don't think it's wise to force him to do it. As a patient, I wouldn't want to go to a doctor who doesn't want to do his job. In general, however, we would like to motivate young doctors so that everyone's eyes shine when treating patients.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U26	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with the topic of residency. What year is the plan to start sending students to Ida-Virumaa through residency like this? And could a similar arrangement work in Pärnumaa and Raplamaa, where there is also a lack of help? I would also like to know what happens to those students who do not want to go to Ida-Virumaa, Pärnumaa or Raplamaa on a compulsory basis. Are they being punished?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U28	I don't want to punish you, I want to motivate you. In what year or month does it apply exactly, and according to what scheme? Unfortunately, in the four months I have been in office, the whole plan has not been fully agreed and carried out, but we are actively discussing it. We will discuss it this week at the Ministry in several gatherings and next week in Ida-Virumaa when we visit it. I hope that we will be able to agree on this scheme during the first half of the year and hopefully it will work after that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U29	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You mentioned that the salary of Estonian doctors is twice the average wage of the country. Can you tell us how much our doctors pay compared to the average salary of doctors in the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U31	The wages of Estonian health workers are lower than in many other European countries. That's a fact. And, for example, the salaries of our teachers are lower than in most other European countries. As I have already said, it is a question of the country's prosperity and of the fact that there must be a balance in society. The priority of the Ministry of Social Affairs is certainly to increase the pay of health workers, but of course it is clear that in very many other areas, too, there is a presumption of an increase in wages and, rightly, an increase in wages. But somewhere, the common currency between the state and the people runs out, and then we have to find a balance. We must agree that we are gradually trying to make our wages competitive. There are areas, including medicine, but also, for example, education and culture and internal security, whose wage increases are priorities. We have been doing this in a stable manner over several years, and I believe that we are moving in the right direction. Are we satisfied with the current level? Of course I'm not. I'd still like to go faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U32	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U33	Thank you. Honourable performer! I have the idea that a university graduate is going through a residency somewhere a little more remote, I really like it. I remember it used to be like this, and the system worked pretty well. There's a huge shortage of family doctors in the country right now. Maybe expand this system in such a way as to send a young graduate or a final-year student to become a family doctor? But I understand you don't think this idea will work in our society. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U34	I see in this Chamber that there is a rather broad consensus, and Parliament should represent the Estonian people. If there are even several opposition parties here saying that this is a good idea, then there could be consensus among the people. Technical details, of course, still have to be debated and agreed one way or the other, but the idea itself has a complexion. So let us continue to work and hope that there will also be social support for this idea. I don't see why anyone would mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U35	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U36	Our next item is the inquiry by Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Mailis Reps, Marika Tuus-Laul, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Enn Eesmaa, Olga Ivanova, Jaanus Karilaid, Aadu Must and Viktor Vassilyev, who will also speak on behalf of the interviewers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U37	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry will continue to some extent on the subject of the previous inquiry. We are still talking about financing health care, where the shoe squeezes, that is what we need to talk about. Our health care is an area with the most serious money sickness, a real lack of money. Of course, it is understandable that as our population ages, the burden on the health care system is increasing. Understandably, medical salaries are low and they are still looking for better service and better conditions. I am surprised, of course, that doctors and other medical staff are migrating from the country somehow along the same path as refugees fleeing Estonia: first Finland, then Sweden, then Germany and England, and finally the United States. But that's the way it is. That's the general direction of movement, going where it's better. Six years ago, the World Health Organisation warned that there would be a shortage of resources in Estonia. The National Audit Office has claimed that the Estonian health care system is unsustainable. The previous board of the health insurance fund also dared to say that their budget was going down a lot. Now there's a new board that'll do as it pleases. In the meantime, various international organisations have come to appreciate our health care system and we have always received praise. We have always received praise for the incredible way in which such resources can keep the health care system alive. It is appreciated how cost effective our medicine is, etc. This means, when translated, that there is no money, but somehow people can still be treated and given some sort of health care, even though many of them have long and long queues. In this regard, we have the following questions. Why is the Government of the Republic engaged in all kinds of ambitious substitution activities instead of finding additional funding for health care? Expensive projects, such as the development of e-services, are being invited, which are certainly necessary, but is it really essential if we do not have enough nurses and doctors? Everything is being tried with a positive sign. We have a work capacity reform. Before there was a medical history, now there's a medical history, before it was assigned to incapacity for work, now it's determined to be able to work. Of course, if you keep instigating an irreparably serious patient that he's healthy, healthy, healthy, it's rational physical therapy, then maybe he'll believe he's healthy before he dies. But it doesn't help or save anyone. In this regard, the members of the Centre Party Group have three questions for the Minister and we are waiting for answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U38	Reply by Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U39	I will answer the questions you have asked. The first question: 'What is your opinion on the financing of the health budget? How do you think it will be possible to meet the priorities of the Government of the Republic in the area of health care if the expenditure on health from GDP in 2016 is lower than it was at the time of the economic crisis? ' Estonia has carried out numerous studies on the financing of the health care system, as the questioner referred to. They have concluded that the Estonian health care system works effectively, providing very good results at lower costs. The financing of health care, as well as all other public services, is closely linked to the development of the country's economy as a whole. As Viktor Vassilyev, a member of the Health Insurance Board, knows very well, the income of the Health Insurance Fund is directly linked to the receipt of a part of the social tax. If there is more public wealth than there is more social tax, then the sickness fund has more to spend. If the situation is getting worse and social tax revenues are falling, then there is also a temporary need to manage less money. The share of health expenditure in GDP in Estonia is much lower than in Europe on average, but unlike many other Eastern European countries, life expectancy in Estonia has steadily increased. The average life expectancy of EU residents is 79.2 years at birth. Although data show an overall increase in life expectancy, the difference between countries is about eight years. The lowest average life expectancy is in Latvia (74.1), Lithuania (74.1), Bulgaria (74.4) and Romania (74.5 years). Estonia has an average life expectancy of 76.7 years, Finland has an average life expectancy of 80.7 years. At the same time, it is known that the health sector faces ever greater challenges due to the increasing spread of the ageing population and chronic diseases. To respond to these trends, many countries, including Estonia, need to reassess their health system's ability to respond to changes. In particular, these changes require better integration of services, i.e. the provision of healthcare at the level of the appropriate healthcare system, as well as coordination of services and consistent provision of services by all parties involved in the system. Among other things, more and more emphasis needs to be placed on integration between health and social systems, which was also discussed in response to the previous inquiry. In order to deal with these challenges further, additional funding must, of course, also arise, as an ageing population clearly leads to a structurally negative budgetary position of the Health Insurance Fund. Only health insurance financed by labour taxes will be hit. If there are more people who do not work, if there are no fewer people who consume healthcare, and if people live longer and have more chronic illnesses, then we need to look for additional financing methods to guarantee the sustainability of health insurance for the Health Insurance Fund. As a result, it is the task of the Government of the Republic to analyse the possibilities of additional funding for health care. Here I come to the second question, which reads: 'It is clear today that the health sector needs additional funding to function and to be sustainable. Do you think that healthcare needs additional funding? How are we going to find additional funding? ' As has been said, this topic has been agreed in the government's work programme and the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance, has been instructed to submit proposals to the Government of the Republic for additional healthcare funding already in spring 2016. A working group has been set up to develop the proposal, involving the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Hospitals Association and the World Health Organisation. The working group has started work and will also discuss the subject in the government office in the coming months. Question 3: 'What is the level of funding for health care in Estonia compared to the European Union average and our neighbours? ' The share of total expenditure on health care in GDP in Estonia is significantly lower than the average in the European Union. In 2013, the average of the European Union countries was 10.1%, the WHO European region averaged 9.5%, and the Estonian figure was 5.7%. The priority of health care in the general government is assessed using a slightly different indicator, which is the share of government health expenditure in total government expenditure, not in GDP, but in total government expenditure. The WHO European region averaged 15.2% in 2013, the European Union average 15.9% and Estonia 11.3%. There are two things to conclude. Firstly, indeed, we have been able to provide quite a good level of medical care in a very sustainable way, by providing reasonable health care. But on the other hand, if we look at a long-term plan, the financial sustainability of the sickness fund or health insurance is certainly a big issue. The budget is going to be negative, and it is therefore essential to look for ways to expand the revenue base in order to ensure that health insurance continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U40	Now the questions. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U41	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You're talking about an ageing population or an increase in life expectancy with a tragic face and a sad voice. Actually, it's the other way around. As Minister of Health, you should be glad that people live longer. All of Estonia should be happy about this. But you are saying that we do not have the money to finance healthcare adequately. Have you put pressure on the government to do something to increase the country's income? Our economy is so weak that we cannot get richer, but you are also the Minister of Labour, have you made any proposals to the government to increase the income base of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U42	I'm sorry if somehow I got the impression that I don't like the way people live longer. This is one of the main objectives of all health policy, both in the context of disease prevention and in the context of treating people, so that people live longer, not just longer, but healthier. In this sense, the advances in medicine and the more informed health behaviour of people are certainly positive. Really, it's a great pleasure that people live longer. And, of course, it's not a big problem that people live longer. The main concern is that, unfortunately, after regaining independence, the birth rate in Estonia has fallen quite seriously, which means that we have reduced the number of people of working age. In this context, we have concerns not because people live longer, but because we do not have enough people to work. Both labour policy and social policy must therefore take serious steps to address this bottleneck. We are certainly working both in the Ministry of Social Affairs and in other ministries to ensure that people can make a greater contribution to society with their work. I was already talking about preventing damage to health, this system is in operation. Work capacity reform services have already started this year to help people not only live but also get a job. Also, in the longer term, the family policy measures implemented by the Social Democrats in both this and the previous government will certainly increase the birth rate and thus help to resolve this demographic concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U43	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U44	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, To your joy, I am also a man who has lived a long time. In so doing, I have lived much longer than you, and I am aware of the things that have taken place before you. The percentage of GDP spent on health care is a key indicator of the health system, which has been in use for over 50 years. The question is that it has been 6% in Estonia. The Prime Minister promised last year, speaking in this Chamber, that it could rise to 6.1%. In general, 5.9%, 6% or 6.1% have been talked about all the time until we were introduced to the state budget. And then suddenly the number 5.2% came out. A whole percentage drop! That's 200 million euros. Where did they go, and why hasn't it been reported so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U45	I always look with such a slight surprise, but also with sympathy to those people who are able to brighten up by seeing Eurostat percentages and other figures, no matter what area they concern. At the same time, I certainly understand that some people who are studying these statistics for a long time feel that the most important thing from the point of view of Estonian health care is how many percent of GDP is allocated to health care. I say that our aim should be to have a health care system that can satisfy all the needs of Estonian society, to provide all Estonian people with proper medical care, whether it is at one level or another, where it is needed. I am also convinced that it is not always reasonable to take the health system of an older country in the European Union as an example and say that you see that they put so much money in there, why we put less. It must be acknowledged that the health system in a very large number of European countries is extremely ineffective. A lot of money will be put in there, but medical attention won't be better. I don't think that's what we want. However, we want every euro that the taxpayer invests, or rather what a person invests in the health care system through health insurance, to have in mind the aim of obtaining a maximum of good service. So instead of that percentage, I'd look at the contents. I believe that there are a lot of important changes in health care arrangements that improve the quality of health care, whether it be strengthening primary health care or several other steps. In doing so, the percentage may go there or there, but the fact is that the budget of the sickness fund has actually increased. It's bigger this year than last year. It is indeed a fact that, compared to certain predictions, our growth forecast has been drawn down, and consequently the health fund's income forecast has also been drawn down. As a member of the Health Insurance Board, you know that logic pretty well. I think we have reached a very good compromise in the context of this year's budget on the fact that there will be no reduction in the number of treatments for specialised medical care. The budget will increase and the number of treatment cases will not decrease. The availability of specialist medical care does not deteriorate, although in the meantime the Council also had a project before it that the solution would have been different. I think we have reached a good solution for the patients: the number of treatment cases remains the same. Do I think that there could be extra money for health care? Of course I do, and with this proposal, I will definitely go to the government office in the spring. But it is clear that we need to take into account the objective of redistributing taxpayers' funds so that the amounts put in place can provide a maximum of good service. In any case, an application for efficacy is justified and reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U46	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U47	Thank you. It is not a question of anyone putting more money into health care than we do. The question is that almost none of us put less than us will be left behind by only Turkey with 5.1%. But as far as the lucidity generated by Eurostat data is concerned, I have available the data of our Institute for Health Development, which is still talking about 6.2%. You mentioned 5.7% as the 2013 figure, but now the 5.2% that comes out of our budget is the right one. But here's what I'm asking you. We receive health care money through social tax, as well as through people's own participation. The stake, you know, can't be any bigger. This has already reached its maximum and we need to start reducing it, as the OECD points out. But the state has other resources. Perhaps you can speak more of these other instruments as a minister? What is the percentage now that the state puts in other resources? It was once known to be 10%.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U48	I do not dare to answer the last question by heart, but from the general budget, the individual components are financed by an ambulance, fertility treatment, residency, which is one way in which health care is provided and the other by providing education, a few more things. But as for the extra money, what can I possibly object to? The question is, what does it come at? We have agreed in the government to increase the income of the Health Insurance Fund and extend its service package to dental care for adults. This has been agreed in the second half of 2017. The amount is EUR 12 million per year and will be added to the Health Insurance Fund's budget. If we start discussing the longer-term sustainability of healthcare funding in the spring, then, as I have already pointed out, the ways in which the revenue base will be expanded are also at issue. In general, the Health Insurance Fund itself is rather sceptical about all these earmarkings, that it is now decided to give the Health Insurance Fund some more money. One day, you might decide to take that money again. So it would be more reasonable to arrange for the income base of the sickness fund to be extended to some extent and to be able to count on some extra money. It is also possible to withdraw certain expenses from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. For example, it has been discussed that the costs of temporary incapacity for work could be borne by the unemployment fund. Well, in the sense of the state's purse, it's an increase from one pocket to another, but in the interests of the budgetary position of the health insurance fund, it might make sense. However, these discussions are still a little rough. Our team is working together, so let's not get ahead of ourselves. Once the working group has made its proposals, I will be happy to introduce them to the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. We can discuss them together and try to find the best solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U49	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U50	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister! I was surprised to hear that I shouldn't take these international tables seriously. However, if you look at the OECD rich club's list of where we are, then Turkey is the last and Mexico is in front of us. We're between Turkey and Mexico. You indicated that our medical system is very effective and that there is a lot of air in the system of "rich club countries." If you were to become Swedish Minister for Health, for example, how much would you blow it out of there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U51	I am certainly not taking a position on the health system in other countries. Each country has historically developed its own very specific system. There are countries where hospitals are directly controlled by the state and there are countries where hospitals are subordinate to municipalities. There are systems like ours where hospitals have separate foundations. There are countries where hospitals simply have certain budget amounts that they use in accordance with agreed rules. There are countries like Estonia where there is an approach based on health insurance contracts, where the health insurance fund buys from hospitals a service that the latter must provide with maximum efficiency. Each system has very clear features that have evolved for historical reasons, and to say that doing everything we have done is unwise. Municipalities have different strengths in different countries and, for historical reasons, systems vary. But what was I referring to? I referred to the fact that it is the easiest way to take some sort of GDP percentage table and say that you can see that Estonia is so bad because we allocate little of GDP to medical care. Everyone has a better healthcare system than we do because we spend too little money on it. There is, in fact, no such one-size-fits-all. Despite Estonia's modest spending on health insurance on all public wealth, we receive health care that is better than the European average. There are certainly countries where the health system is better than we are. There are also patients who receive better services by purchasing private insurance in those countries where there is a mixed system of private and public insurance, such as Germany. The systems are just very different. It should not be said that since we have been able to build our health care system efficiently and economically, our medical care is bad. When talking to people or looking at medical satisfaction polls, Estonian people, like international experts, actually consider our health care service to be very good. And that's right. It is a question of problems at different levels. We have more inpatient specialist care than the European average. The direction of the Health Insurance Fund is to reduce inpatient care and increase day care and outpatient care. This is sustainable, but also reasonable from the point of view of patients. We have concerns that patients do not trust the primary level, or the family doctor system, enough. I guess every system takes time to take root. I believe that these attitudes are changing in Estonia. We are trying to help by strengthening first-level teams with the creation of health centres and the necessary legal changes, which are largely already approved by the Riigikogu. But, of course, there are still ways to increase patient satisfaction and improve the quality of medical care in the system. As has been said, this does not necessarily require large additional amounts; it will also be possible to do better without more additional resources. At the same time, however, we have to take into account that, in a ten-year perspective, the current funding scheme of the Health Insurance Fund is not sustainable, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund goes to a disadvantage because more people needing care come and the hand of work is reduced. We need to discuss very thoroughly the expansion of the income base of the Health Insurance Fund. But just to say that, since we are going to have considerably less resources in the medical system than the richer European countries from GNI, we also have worse medical care for many times, certainly is not right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U52	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, Minister! You did not answer Mr Viktor Vassilyev's question, where 1% of the budget money disappeared. And it wasn't enough that you called him incompetent. I'll ask you where that percentage went.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U54	I certainly did not call anyone incompetent, nor did I make any hints in that direction. I said you don't want to make such a big number out of these percentages. Let's just say it can be done, but I generally have a slight scepticism when someone talks about the percentages in the big rankings and says that they estimate that everything is really good somewhere and it's really bad, because some percentage is bad compared to other countries. The Health Insurance Fund's budget is growing. It has grown in previous years and is growing this year. As far as the calculations made on the basis of the various forecasts are concerned, I can have a more precise calculation of how many percent of this year's medical budget represents GDP, and I will be happy to answer you in writing if it really troubles your heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U55	In the event of an inquiry, it is possible for everyone to ask a question, Honourable Nation Councilwoman Märt Sults. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U56	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister said that he is a bit skeptical when people juggle with some percentage. I, too, view a slight skepticism when someone juggles with percentages without explaining what's in the percentages. And that's what Prime Minister Taavi has been doing here in clothing, juggling in front of us with percentages. Health expenditure on GDP, this is the country's expenditure on GDP on health. In particular, according to the Prime Minister, these have been around 6% of 5,9 or 6,1 or 6% of the total, and he has also confirmed that this figure will be 6,1% in 2016. The same number is operated by the National Institute for Health Development, the same number is operated by hospital managers, and so far everyone was sure that this number is now 6.1%, but at least 6%. Here you can discuss the methodology, how these percentages are calculated in Estonia and how they are calculated in other countries. But actually, it's a standard indicator, so these methodologies are probably the same. I am not going to compare the health care funding in Estonia and Germany at the moment; it is completely pointless for everyone to even understand how it is with this thing. But what I'm more interested in is that if we've been told 6% or 6.1% all along, where 5.2% appeared in the state budget promotion material. Why has no one told us that healthcare funding will fall by 1%? This 1% is not a small amount, it is nearly EUR 200 million, and I want to ask where it went, where the EUR 200 million went. Was it buried in the Arizona Desert or in the Estonian Air planes? Well, from health care, that's gone. And the question is, and the question remains: 6,1% or 5,2%, which number is the right one? Is anyone wrong with the number when they published it on the Ministry of Finance's website, or is that number hidden and now he's shown up? Please explain to us what the truth is! The Estonian people have a right to know this, and people who work in health care simply need to know this, because it is one of the main indicators.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U57	The Minister wishes to exercise his right to appear at the end of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U58	Dear Viktor Vassilyev! As a member of the Board of Health Insurance Fund, as a member of the long-term Riigikogu, as a member of the Social Affairs Committee and as a person who has been thoroughly familiar with the legislation on health insurance, you know very well that the income of the Health Insurance Fund is made up of the part of the social tax insurance insurance which is paid directly to the health insurance fund at the expense of the Tax and Customs Board when the money has been received, without going through any additional level of decision-making from which it can be directed to Arizona, air or anywhere else. Thus, all social tax contributions on health insurance, which have reached the Treasury through labour taxes, have been paid into the sickness fund's budget, which amounts to approximately EUR 1 billion. That is how much the state has spent in previous years and is spending this year on health funding. As far as these percentages are concerned, I'd be happy to explain the difference. I suspect the reason for the difference between these two percent is as follows. The explanatory memorandum to the state budget refers to the share of state tax expenditure on medical care in GDP, i.e. the amount of social tax's health insurance contribution to the total GDP. I have not calculated it, but it is likely to amount to 5.2%, which is also in the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget law. However, the part of health insurance is not the only money spent on health care in the country. As Mrs Tuus-Laul rightly pointed out, there is also the participation of patients. And if you take the percentage of state health insurance and add up the sum of your own shares, I suspect that the result will be that 6 comma whatever. But these more detailed calculations I will forward to you in writing. There is no reason to fear that the money for health insurance will be used for anything else. I'm sure you know very well that the law doesn't allow this to happen. And as a member of the Health Insurance Board and also as chairman of the Audit Committee of the Health Insurance Fund, you are certainly well aware of where the sickness fund's money comes from and how it is spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U59	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U60	Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassilyev, Heimar Lenk, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Valeri Korb, Martin Repinski, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Tarmo Tamm, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Anneli Ott, Aadu Must, Siret Kotka, Peeter Ernits, Mikhail Korb, Toomas Vitsut, Mailis Reps and Kadri Simson have submitted the following question. In the name of the heirs, Marika Tuus-Laul will be in the speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This question, too, is closely linked to health care. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, we introduced it in mid-December and it deals with access to medical care in very different aspects. First of all, the problem is that the budget of the health insurance fund cuts the volume of specialist medical care services. Secondly, we see that general hospitals reduce the number of outpatient specialist care cases and contract volumes. We've met several hospital executives. The main problems are that doctors no longer have full jobs in hospitals, that hospitals' doctors work part-time and that a number of specialties have disappeared from outpatient care. We also see that in most hospitals, the number of receptions, or treatments, by specialised doctors is down in thousands. A lot of hospitals have approached us with this question. These agreements have not yet been concluded, but we have basic data more or less in place. On the other hand, when we are talking about access to medical care, we must, of course, look at the length of the waiting lists for medical care. They have indeed been further prolonged and very significantly prolonged. Thirdly, we also know how much regional hospitals, both PERH and the University of Tartu Hospital must concentrate. They didn't want to do that, and it wouldn't be fair for these private hospitals to ask for it. So there are a lot of questions and we are asking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U62	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, answers these many questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U63	There aren't many questions, just three. I am pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs was able to discuss this issue in depth today with representatives of three general hospitals and the health insurance fund. I believe that the heirs also have a clearer picture of what is being done and where is going today. But I'm sure we'll be happy to discuss it even more widely here. The first question: 'How does reducing the budget of the Health Insurance Fund affect the availability of specialist medical care? What is the budget forecast for the Health Insurance Fund for four years and are budget cuts expected in the coming years? How do you intend to find the funds to cover the deficit arising from the reduction in social tax in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund? Will savings come at the expense of other social expenditure? 'The budget of the Health Insurance Fund will not be reduced. This statement in the inquiry is based on the information noise generated in December: in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, the amount in the specialist medical care line had indeed been reduced between the two readings. For the second reading, it had decreased by EUR 7 million. After the Health Insurance Board had discussed this issue, I took an active position as Chairman of the Supervisory Board on this issue, in cooperation with the Board of the Health Insurance Fund, we reached the next Health Insurance Board meeting, which took place at the beginning of this year and where the budget of the Health Insurance Fund was approved for this year, the budget for which the proportion of specialist medical care in the budget is not decreasing, also compared to the first option. In fact, as far as specialist medical care is concerned, the budget will increase. Most of this increase will cover the wage increase of health workers in accordance with the collective agreement. There is no reduction in the number of treatments in specialist care. So, as I said before, the availability of specialist medical care in 2016 will in no way deteriorate. In 2016, on the contrary, the health insurance budget will increase by 6.4% compared to 2015, with a growth of 5.9% in the health care budget and a further 5% in the specialist medical care budget. At the same time, only 4.2% of government expenditure is planned to increase. Thus, we can see that the amount of health insurance is actually increasing at an early pace compared to the rest of the budget expenditure: the health insurance fund's budget is 6.4%, the total budget is 4.2%. The four-year budget forecast of the Health Insurance Fund also does not provide for budget cuts. On average, a budget increase of around 6% per year has been planned for the coming years. On the proposal of the Government, the Riigikogu has confirmed the budgetary position of the Health Insurance Fund as slightly negative in the coming years, both this year and the following year, in order to allow the maximum amount of funds available from the Health Insurance Fund to be channelled into the provision of health care services. In terms of the general government budgetary position, a small deficit has been agreed. Now, the impact of the fall in social tax. I assume that reference is made to the law adopted, according to which social tax will fall by half a percentage in two stages. Having actively participated in the adoption of this law, you may well know that this law also has a mechanism whereby the exact same amount that is deducted from the social security contribution is compensated to sickness insurance, i.e. the sickness insurance fund, by other means. So basically, the benefits of the health insurance fund don't change. However, I must admit that I understand the emotion that arose in the meantime in December, so that the availability of specialist medical care is reduced as the money is reduced. Today, the situation is much more positive. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund is increasing, the budget of specialised medical care is increasing and the number of treatment cases is even increasing in some respects. And there is no reduction in the budget of the sickness fund due to a reduction in social tax. However, in the longer term, increasing the income of the health insurance fund is certainly important. That is what I said in replying to previous questions, and this is not going to be repeated here. The second question: Has the Ministry analysed the impact of reducing the budget of general hospitals on regional, financial and temporal access to medical care? What additional costs will this step entail for people in rural areas? " Today, in the Committee on Social Affairs, those involved discussed this issue quite thoroughly. Let us admit that the communication of the Health Insurance Fund on this issue was not quite perfect. These contract projects, which were awarded, caused quite strong emotions in general hospitals, as it was feared that the availability of specialist medical care on the ground would become worse, that some medical managers would be taken away from them and given to the centre, that people would no longer receive this help on the ground and would have to go to either Tallinn or Tartu. Behind all of this, there's actually a little broader view. This broader view concerns cooperation between general hospitals and regional centres of competence, which has been a health policy course for some time and which the general hospitals largely agree with. In general, these are two aspects. First of all, there is a wider agreement that it is unreasonable in Estonia to develop full spectrum health services in every county, every general hospital. It was accepted by the representatives of all the general hospitals who were present today, as well as by the association of hospitals, that it has become clear that everyone believes that this is not financially feasible. Very many disciplines and procedures require expensive equipment, and this would not make sense in terms of staffing. Some of the complex disciplines have some individual top specialists in Estonia and it makes no sense for us to distribute these people to all county centres. It is wise to concentrate them precisely in centres of competence, where they can work as a team and where they are full-time in providing specific medical care. In smaller places, however, there is too little medical practice for specific diagnoses to ensure a high quality of treatment. In fact, everyone agrees on this. The Estonian people broadly agree that when it comes to a more complex diagnosis and condition, they are treated either in a central hospital or even in a Tartu University Hospital or in a North-Estonian Regional Hospital. The second aspect concerns the organisation of more regular or simple specialist medical visits. In this regard, it is certainly important that specialised medical care is available in county centres. The question is how to organise this in a situation where there is serious concern about finding specialists in smaller county centres. As has been said in response to the first inquiry, it must be dealt with, but at present there is only one doctor, one specialist, in many disciplines in the general hospital. If this doctor goes on sick leave for a longer period or retires or decides to go to work in another country, there is no doctor who has completed the specific treatment at that place. There's a health insurance contract, there's money, there's patients who need this service, but there's no doctor. I gave a concrete example in the Committee on Social Affairs and I will also bring it here. Narva Hospital, the largest general hospital in Estonia, has a large contract that has not been completed in recent years. There's money, but you can't fulfill the contract. Specific example: There is no ophthalmologist for over six months, just not. There's a contract, there's a place, but there's no doctor. We have proposed that general hospitals cooperate with a higher-level hospital in the provision of specialist medical care. For example, in a specific case, this ophthalmologist's or ophthalmologist's contract volume, which is initially planned for Narva Hospital, could move to Ida-Viru Central Hospital and the Ida-Viru Central Hospital could undertake to offer an ophthalmologist's reception in Narva. Perhaps a general hospital and a high - level hospital could agree on what medical care is provided in a higher - level hospital and on the ground. This problem also affects other hospitals in general. In the context of networking, we have foreseen that we have two regional competence centres and also a children's hospital in Tallinn. But there are two regional competence centres: North-Estonian Regional Hospital and Tartu University Hospital. Today, three online hospitals were represented at the table in the Social Committee: South-Estonian Hospital, Raplamaa Hospital and Läänemaa Hospital. We would like the North Estonian Regional Hospital to agree with Rapla and Läänemaa what specialist medical care it is reasonable to offer in Haapsalu or Rapla and what kind of Tallinn, in which cases the doctor of the North Estonian Regional Hospital will receive in Rapla or Haapsalu and in which cases the patients will travel to Tallinn. For example, there may be very specific procedures for which no equipment exists in Läänemaa and Rapla. The same is true of the University of Tartu Hospital and Võrumaa. As a result, we have asked the Health Insurance Fund to negotiate these contracts in a tripartite manner, so that it is not only the Health Insurance Fund and the General Hospital, but the Health Insurance Fund, the General Hospital and the Regional Centre of Excellence. The Health Insurance Fund has agreed to this. They will be able to negotiate in a tripartite way whose contract will be awarded and where this service will be provided. This compromise was also acceptable to the managers of the general hospital in the Committee on Social Affairs today, and I think it is possible to reach an agreement on this. In the coming years, we would actually like to reach the specific cooperation of each hospital with the regional competence centre. If we take such a wide brush stroke, we have local hospitals, general hospitals, central hospitals and regional hospitals right now. Actually, hospitals are very different. Narva General Hospital and Hiiumaa General Hospital are very different institutions. The needs are different, the capabilities are different, and it makes no sense for us to try to hit them with one hat. It has not been done directly either. In essence, we could move towards agreeing on a package of specialist medical and other medical care services for each hospital, which is provided on the ground, carried out by ourselves, in cooperation with the Centre of Excellence. The goal is, of course, for every patient to receive the highest possible quality of care as close to home as possible. The third question, I shall read it briefly: 'How have you responded to the call for representatives of general hospitals to initiate regional negotiations with several parties [---]? How do you feel about the proposal to give a reasonable time for negotiation and restructuring, with a minimum of six months? ' I think today's debate also showed that finding a common part is possible, of course within a reasonable time. This was confirmed today by both hospital managers and the health insurance fund. So, in any case, we hope that in this tripartite format, we will be able to avoid any confusion and reach agreements that are really in the interests of patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U64	Now the questions. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U65	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I have here a letter from the head of Põlva Hospital. The Health Insurance Fund offers them just over 2,000 less treatment cases this year than it did last year. At the same time, according to the wage agreement, this hospital should be able to raise employees' salaries, for which EUR 400000 is missing. In order to fill this gap, the hospital manager calculates that 35 employees should be made redundant. Where do you think the solution is? How can you claim that it is cheaper to treat the sick in Põlva in Tartu than in Põlva? What logic is it based on, and why are you trying to administratively dismantle smaller general hospitals? How do they comply with their wage agreement? Where do they get the money for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U66	I am sorry that the honourable questioner could not attend the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs today, where the problems of general hospitals were discussed very thoroughly and for a long time. There are several members of the Social Affairs Committee in this Chamber who can certainly give a thorough overview of this. In fact, in my answer to the first question, I indicated that our aim was not to kill out general hospitals or local hospitals. The aim is to provide high-quality specialised medical care, including access to regional centres. That is why it has been agreed that the negotiation of the contracts should take place in a tripartite manner, so that the parties to the agreement are not only Põlva Hospital and Health Insurance Fund, for example, but also the University of Tartu Hospital. This way you can agree on what kind of specialist care someone provides and how and where it takes place. The financial situation of general hospitals is, in some cases, really complicated, I understand that concern. At the same time, I admitted that the communication was perhaps a bit off the wrong track. At first, we could have come together and discussed how the state and the health insurance fund understood that the cooperation between the health insurance fund and the centre of competence and the general hospital could be seen. Contract proposals could then have been made. It was preferred to go this way, so it was decided to send out the contracts first and then see what happens. Unfortunately, it gave rise to quite an emotional reaction, which is understandable in a sense. For people, access to health care, including regional access, is an extremely important issue. There is certainly a need to reach reasonable agreements so that all health stakeholders understand clearly what is being done. I believe that it is possible to reach these agreements in a tripartite format in this way, and also in Põlva. I will not go over what I said before, but I think that this agreement, which was suitable for the three general hospitals in the Social Affairs Committee today, is also suitable for other general hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U67	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U68	Thank you. The question of life and death is an important question. But this isn't about overshadowing, it's about principle. As has already been said, small rural hospitals reduce the number of specialised doctors' appointments. It is very clear, it came out today, and it has been argued in the past. These cases will be transferred to the so-called centres of competence. Now I'm asking how an old lady gets there in a faraway hospital. After all, we do not have any kind of transport money and we can no longer increase our own contribution. How do you think it's going to work? That's what Rapla's hospital posed today. Secondly, can you tell how many people are currently in the order of admission to a specialist in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U69	Once again, indeed, the Health Insurance Fund has foreseen that the general hospital contract and the general hospital budget of some specialist doctors some medical cases so-called "move away." This does not mean that admissions in these professions will end. I brought you an example from Narva and I will repeat it once again. If we take the money and contract volume from Narva Hospital for the ophthalmologist's admission, then, of course, it can be said that now the money has been taken away from this hospital and less money is allocated to Narva medical care. But if we channel this money into the budget of the Ida-Viru Central Hospital with the obligation that this hospital guarantees an ophthalmologist's appointment in Narva, that does not mean that medical care on the ground is getting worse, but vice versa, it is improving because there is no ophthalmologist at all at this time. Maybe I am wrong, but I think that the Estonian person, whether he is a young, middle-aged or old-timer, as you said, is absolutely no matter whether the health care service is financed from the budget of Narva Hospital, the budget of Ida-Viru Central Hospital or some other budget. A person wants to get help on the ground. We want to reach an agreement on the distribution and reception of specialties between general hospitals and centres of competence in such a way that, regardless of who has the money in the budget, the specialist medical care service is available. And that is, even if a doctor leaves a general hospital or is ill or retired for six months. There's still some help to be given. Whoever has a specific budget line is only an important issue for managing a general hospital. I do not underestimate this problem either. But surely there must be no idea that this money is going to disappear. All the health insurance money goes to provide health care. And as far as possible, we naturally want to offer it near home. In more complex disciplines, where this is not possible or unreasonable, the centres of competence shall do so either locally or in a higher-level hospital.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U70	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U71	Thank you. You said there was money often, but there are no doctors. I'll give you a fresh example from the family doctor level. In the municipality of Tõlliste in Valgamaa, a family doctor's station in Cirgulina was closed on 1 January. People have called me, and I've been there many times. Now 300 signatures have been collected and are being sent to the Minister. I told people that you could collect signatures, but in Estonia it will not help anyway. There was the opposite of what you described. There's a doctor who wanted to continue working, but the family doctor's office was shut down by decision of the Health Board. People say we like the doctor, the doctor wants to work, but he can't. And he didn't even get laid off. That's the situation you've developed, you can look into it for interest. I mean, what you're saying is controversial. There's a doctor in one place, but there's no money, there's money in the other place, but there's no doctor. I don't get it. The second part of my question concerns Põlva Hospital: what will help the presence of this third party, the representative of the clinic in Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U72	That's a lot to do. I would also suggest that you and your colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs exchange views on this issue. I think this debate today was fruitful. People understood health developments and also understood what is not recommended for some reason in this Chamber. No matter where we plan this money, if there is no doctor and no service, the situation is very sad. I don't know if you think it's a good situation where Põlva Hospital or some other hospital has money in the budget, but the contract volume is not being met because there is no doctor. The hospital is fine, but the patient isn't. When it comes to family doctors and hospital doctors, when we look further ahead, unfortunately, outside large centres, there is a concern that doctors do not have enough. In hospitals, there are individual specialists in every specialty and if these people leave the system, either temporarily or permanently, they cannot provide the service. It's just that there are no people, that's all. In order to prevent and prevent this, in some cases to solve the problem already in place, I will again bring Narva's example, we will move towards a larger and higher-level hospital agreeing with a lower-level hospital, or general hospital, on how the work is organised, whose budget is what the contract volume is. I think hospitals could be given more freedom of decision. Several hospitals made this request today. In cooperation, it will be decided which specialty assistance is offered locally and elsewhere. If there is no doctor, then a high-level hospital doctor can go on site and receive people there. As for the Cirgulin family doctor's office, as you called it, I must say, unfortunately, that I cannot keep myself informed of all the cases of family doctors in rural municipalities. I'm sure I'm getting into this issue, but the Health Board isn't based on the budget when it comes to making its own decisions. Family health care, i.e. basic health care, is budgeted by the health insurance fund. The Health Board shall ensure that the family doctor service is available and that the list is in accordance with the conditions. One important objective is definitely that family medical care covers the whole of Estonia, but there are bigger or smaller concerns in several counties. It has been reported that a family doctor does not meet certain requirements. In that case, he has the right to treat people. As sad as it may seem, the family physician has shown himself to be drinking and unable to adequately serve patients. In that case, the Health Board has intervened. Fortunately, these are very few cases where we have had such problems with the work of a family doctor. I will look into the details of the problem you have raised, and I cannot comment on this particular case immediately. It is certainly not a question of budgetary constraints.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U73	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Negotiations on the 2016 Health Financing Agreements are currently underway. General hospitals are not satisfied with the offers they receive. This particularly concerns the geographical availability of services, which we have talked about here today for a long time. It is certainly one big step forward that a third party, or a higher-level hospital, has been invited to the negotiating table. At the same time, it is a concern that this step is not supported by a clear and understandable legal basis. As it is essentially short-term agreements, it does not provide certainty for longer-term planning of local activities. What legislative steps are planned to legitimise these activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U75	It is true that the agreements that the Health Insurance Fund will implement according to its management decisions have a clear regional policy effect. I hope that it will be possible to reach reasonable compromises in a trialogue and also to take account of this regional political impact. But in terms of the system, I personally don't like the management of the Health Insurance Fund trying to solve regional policy problems. Regional policy is not a natural part of the general tasks of the Health Insurance Fund. Regional policy issues should be discussed and resolved by those who have a relevant mandate, whether in government or somewhere else. It is also true that over the past years, the Ministry of Social Affairs has given more of these decisions to the Health Insurance Fund and has also sought to integrate the geographical availability of services into the contracts of the Health Insurance Fund. However, a few weeks ago, when we met with the Hospital Association, we found together that the Ministry of Social Affairs could actually take the thickest job here again. As of today, there is a regulation on hospital type requirements, which constitutes such a general minimum programme. As I said, we should come up with longer-term solutions that take into account each hospital and its particularities, along with the relevant competence centre. I would like a longer-term agreement on this package of services offered on the ground to be fixed in a legislative instrument, i.e. a regional and health policy agreement on the part of the state, which would enable hospitals to plan their activities for the longer term and the Health Insurance Fund to make their contracts accordingly. This process is underway. The group shall meet and discuss proposals. We'll probably get there in the next few years, we'll be at a pretty fast pace. With some hospitals, we're starting to get somewhere. This is certainly the right thing to do. I hope that in the near future, a rational solution will be reached in a trialogue. But yes, I can see that the executive, the government and the ministry, would take a clearer political responsibility for these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U76	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U77	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, e-consultation is also likely to help improve the availability of specialist medical care. We know that there are people attending the receptions of a very large number of specialist doctors who could, in essence, also limit themselves to e-consultation. My question is, what plans do you have for extending the e-consultation of specialist doctors? It is now known that individual specialist doctors can provide this service.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U78	Thank you for your question. Both e-consultations and the wider implementation of e-health solutions are certainly an important development that will help to get better and faster services, save time for doctors and thus actually improve the quality and effectiveness of medical care. It is true that much has been said about e-health solutions in Estonia, something has been done, but unfortunately the pace of introduction has been beautifully slow. The digital recipe is, to be honest, one of the last really big things that got done. After that, e-Ambulance is now in operation over the rocks and stumps. All these e-mails, e-consultation, digital registration and other issues have been moved forward, but the pace has not satisfied us. What can I say? Surely for us, the issue is a priority. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Vice-Chancellor for Innovation has started work, curating the enforcement and implementation of eHealth solutions. We have an e-health strategy that has been presented to the government. The eHealth Council, where there are different actors together, is about to start work to agree on implementation. The Vice Chancellor has promised that there will be a new e-health solution every quarter. I wish him strength in this ambition. I think that quite a lot can be done, and many things are technically done either already or quickly. But the question is, above all, that the health sector is quite specific, but it involves many of the various so-called groups with their own specifics. This requires a thorough reflection of how information moves from one doctor to another, from one level to another, how hospitals apply different solutions in their information systems, etc. The solutions so far have been rather that, if some professional organisations have been agreed on some things, such as the implementation of an e-consultation, it will be implemented, but others will be discussing the matter for years to come. Honestly, this isn't going to work. However, I hope that in the form of the new so-called pioneer fist of e-health that emerged in the Ministry of Social Affairs, we will still have the necessary forces to introduce e-health applications more quickly in real medicine.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U79	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U80	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! This is a logistically complex problem of how to bring together those in need and those who provide assistance most effectively. You indicated earlier that you should not take the statistics very seriously. To reduce my stupidity, I'm asking you this. The 2013 statistical yearbook states that 93000 people were left without specialised medical care during the year, although they needed it. In 2014, this figure increased to 122000 people. What number could describe 2015? Please correct my knowledge!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U81	Very many different numbers can be taken out of the Health Yearbooks and other surveys. I could explain them here on a purely intuition, but to be precise and correct, I would be happy to answer your question in writing. In general, it is true that the order of treatment in specialist care is uneven. It is uneven across regions and disciplines. For some specialties, this problem is bigger, for others it is smaller. At the same time, quite a considerable number of specialist visits could be avoided. International organisations have also repeatedly pointed this out. They would be avoidable in the sense that certain concerns could be solved by a family doctor. But our family doctor system is still developing and there are a number of people in Estonia whose attitude to the family doctor is something like this, so I'm going to take a referral from him and then go to a real doctor. Unfortunately, a large number of specialist doctors are basically limited to consulting at family doctor level. A person does not have a medical indication or a common language error that a specialist doctor should eliminate or a diagnosis that a family doctor could not make. But this situation is improving. We have special training for doctors who have learned to be a family doctor under the new system. Trust in family doctors is also growing, and in the coming years we will strengthen the teams of family doctors by setting up health centres. We want to bring more services to the primary level, bring more specialists together there, precisely so that people can get more of their health problems resolved at the primary level in case of less severe diagnosis and should not go to a specialist. This will certainly shorten the order of specialized medical care. That this is true, we see very clearly in those specialties where the consignment note is not needed at present. One of the examples is definitely a dermatologist, whom it is as good as impossible to get to. After all, there has been a great deal of talk in the public about the risk of melanoma being a serious risk, so you could show all your birth marks to a doctor. Of course, from a public health point of view, this is very right, but the queues to the dermatologists have exploded. In most cases, the family doctor can also review birthmarks. But since you don't need a referral, everyone wants to see a dermatologist. But those people who really need the help of a dermatologist are, unfortunately, suffering from this longer line. So the goal is better primary health care, stronger teams of family doctors who would solve more people's health problems in health centres close to home. I'm sure this will shorten the waiting lists for specialist doctors.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U82	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U83	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Since I'm not a field specialist, I'm just trying to express myself. Suppose a regional hospital has a contract with county hospitals to exchange doctors. Unfortunately, it is pointed out that a contract of employment that determines the place of work of a doctor is an obstacle. He can simply say that my contract states that I work in Tallinn, and I do not go to Rapla or Keila, or wherever, for example, on the x day of the week. Have you identified the same problem and, if so, what are your solutions or thoughts on how to move forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U84	It is still possible to do the work by agreement between the employee and the employer. If an employee says he doesn't want to do a certain job, of course, the employer can't tell you to get in the car and drive there. I don't think there's a real need for that either. In general, the responsibility for health care in Estonia is known both at the North Estonian Regional Hospital and at the University Hospital of Tartu, as well as at the central hospitals. In other counties, however, health professionals feel this responsibility and are therefore willing to work outside their home hospital. They have also done so without any tripartite agreements. The fact that a high-level hospital doctor comes to a general hospital to receive or provide other services is not extraordinary in Estonian health care. For example, surgeons and certainly some other specialists go to the University of Tartu Hospital in Ida-Viru Central Hospital, I don't know, I think once every two weeks and do the necessary surgery. It has worked in the past and will continue to work in the future. However, it is true that if the head of the lower-level general hospital, for example, asks the University of Tartu Hospital to listen, we have a shortage of specialists, we need them and we need to take them, then, of course, the University of Tartu Hospital will first cover its needs and if there is so-called capacity left, then we are ready to go to the general hospital to help. However, since we do not have too much of the so-called free capacity of doctors, the work at a higher-level hospital is, of course, a priority for doctors. In the context of networking, if we really connect not even legally, but in terms of substantive cooperation with the general hospital and the higher-level hospital, such as Võrumaa and Valga hospitals, with the University Hospital of Tartu and the North-Estonian Regional Hospital of Rapla and Läänemaa hospitals, there will be a joint responsibility. Then the regional hospital will also have a duty to provide specialist medical care there and, in this context, the management of the larger hospital will also look for ways to provide specialised medical care in accordance with the agreement. This, of course, does not preclude a doctor from saying that he is not going to be there. In practice, however, it has been possible to reach agreements in general. There are certainly places where there have been problems with this, but if this process continues to evolve and we note that we have two major centres of competence responsible for access to medical care in Estonia more generally, not just in our own hospital, then the understanding of the movement of doctors and the making of receptions in other hospitals will become easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U85	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is driven by the great concern of many people. Is it also possible to get advice on what to do with a disabled person or a chronically ill or elderly person late in the evening and during the night hours without the use of an ambulance? Close relatives who care for such ones are often desperate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U87	What kind of advice do you mean? For medical advice, there is a family doctor's helpline that works 24 hours a day. If this is a matter of immediate danger to people's lives or health, then of course you have to call an ambulance, then you don't have to choose other numbers. But when it comes to taking medications or some kind of care, you can get advice at the level of a family doctor on the advice of a family doctor. I've used it myself, and I dare to recommend it to others. It provides quality medical advice 24 hours a day. But once again, when people's lives or health are at risk, you don't need to think any longer, you have to call an ambulance at 112.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U88	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U89	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Ossinovski may say that everything is fine in health care, but unfortunately, the opinions of hospital managers and patients and, of course, statistics say something different. At the end of last year, we learned that in the OECD countries' welfare index ranking, Estonia belongs to the rearmost. We would be, by the way, quite the last, if our education didn't lift us up a bit. And it is the health of the Estonian people that brings us down. By the way, a very bad surprise in recent years has also fallen the number of healthy years of life for Estonian people. Since 2009, the number of women's healthy lives has decreased by 2.1 and men by 1.9 years. It's a very big change. I think health policy also plays a role here. People's own participation in our health care has grown steadily. The part that people put in their wallets is already so big that we need to start reducing it. In 2013, it was 22%, in 2014 24% and in 2015 it will probably be 25%, as the National Institute for Health Development currently thinks. The WHO has said that this is the percentage from which we will have to start reducing our own contribution. People can no longer afford medicine, dental care and other things. For example, compared to the years of regaining independence, personal participation in health care has doubled; even the price of prescription medicines is quite high for each person. It also turns out from the OECD report that only 54% of our population value their health. The average for countries is 69%, and Ireland is 82%. Of course, access to healthcare is the key indicator that we have deteriorated. The number of people registered in the queues is constantly increasing. According to the Statistics Yearbook, Estonia had 93000 people in line in 2013, and already 122000 in 2014. We asked the minister about last year, but he didn't answer it. As of 1 October 2015, 184000 people were registered in the specialized medical care queues. That means that one in seven people is on the waiting list for a doctor. Compared to the same time a year ago, there are 8% more people in line. But you also know that very often the wisher is not registered in the queue. In most cases, you will be told to call us back in a week or a month or call us in September, while the doctors will not see you in the summer. Consequently, the number of people in the queue should be significantly higher; it is now artificially reduced. But looking at the current situation in general hospitals and the availability of specialist medical care, I think we're going to have worse. General doctors at general hospitals are not satisfied with the volume of funding and services. This was also clear today at the Commission meeting. About 2,200 treatments are taken away from Rakvere Hospital. Today they said it would probably stay that way. Raplamaa Hospital reduces the number of treatment cases by 1400, which means that so many people are left without help. The Raplamaa Hospital also confirmed that there would not be much change in the contract. There's Kuressaare Hospital, Jõgeva Hospital, we heard about Põlva Hospital today. Of course, I can't read everyone here. We also know that the Minister calls for considerable staff redundancies in regional hospitals, PERH and the University of Tartu Hospital, although this requirement cannot be legal in the case of private legal entities. However, they have to lay off 80 and 85 employees respectively. At the same time, we heard today that competence centres have to take on all these treatment cases that disappear from county hospitals. Honestly, I don't get it. And finally, the health costs that we have, as we have heard today, are 5.7% of GDP. THAILAND is based on the second percentage. The OECD average is 9.5%, and in this comparison we are among the worst. We're going to be way below Russia with our 5.7%. But, yeah, that's what our numbers are. At the same time, health is a fundamental right for all of us, everyone, and if we are in such a bad position among the countries of the world in this area, then it is very unfortunate. We are told that everything in Estonia is going to be better and the money is not going to be reduced, but it is going to be even more. But people can't get to the doctor, and the queues are extremely long. It feels like we've just been lied to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U90	Thank you. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U91	Thank you for the floor. I came to the chair to say a few words. Marika Tuus-Laul just said that 184000 people are waiting in line for a specialist visit. It's just another place to think about this whole hall where you don't think often. Our health care is going down. The Minister does confirm that we are going better every year and that with the money we have now, we have very high quality medical care compared to some other European countries. But there's nothing we can do, I think most of us feel on our own skin, that the next year, the more uncertain it gets. If anyone wants to know the statistics, pick up the phone tomorrow morning and call a hospital or a health centre and ask me when I can get an ophthalmologist, when I can get a dermatologist, etc. I can tell you, you'll get answers in about four to six months. Indeed, the Minister is right that county hospitals or these general hospitals may have easier access to a doctor. Unfortunately, thanks to the long-term propaganda that we are committed to top medicine in large centres, the authority of county hospitals has gone down in the eyes of the people. These doctors are no longer trusted, even though very good people work in general hospitals. This is how we have developed the situation that I warned about in this very remote area three or four years ago: that dear people, there will be only two health centres in Estonia, these are the North-Estonian Regional Hospital in Tallinn and the Tartu University Hospital. The minister was smiling when they said the old lady couldn't see the doctor. But really, if you live in Vastselina and you have a doctor's appointment in PERH by 3/4 tomorrow morning, and you know that maybe in six months you won't get a new number, if you're late now, I dare say that the whole family, children, grandchildren and the whole family, are upset for a week, wondering how to get your grandmother to the doctor. I understand that the priority in Estonia is not people of mature age at the moment. We play for young people because they can use this e-health system and call and ask what's wrong with my kid if he's crying and he doesn't fall asleep. Then the family doctor's security number tells him to talk to him, read him a fairy tale, and maybe by this time the problem will be broken. Unfortunately, I had no right to a second question. I wanted to ask the minister if we have a course for e-blood tests and other e-analyses, for example, because it tends to go that way. At the same time, we know very well that any experienced doctor will tell you: I cannot recommend anything until I have seen you face to face. I want to see what color you are, whether you're redder than your face or pinker or whiter. So there's no way these phone services are gonna get us out of this situation. A little from the family doctor centers. The last two examples are from the municipality of Varstu in Võrumaa and from the municipality of Valgamaa in Tsirgulina. These family doctor centers were simply closed on 1 January, even though the people protested. Turns out there's a doctor, there's a nurse, but the Health Board just checked that the list was smaller, and decided: let's close it down. Let's just close it! We should return to the post-war medical arrangements, even if there were at least velschrip points in the collective farms. That if you cut your finger badly, you don't have to go to the county center to tie the wound, but the chaperone will pick you up and give you an anti-Tetanus shot just in case there's no poisoning. We have now reached this level that, on the one hand, we are developing cutting-edge medicine in Tartu and Tallinn, but on the level of county and village, the needy are almost forgotten. The fact that we can't call a doctor home anymore is just amazing. As you can read in Delfi, another flu wave threatens us, but we can't invite a doctor home. Yesterday I watched TV news from one of our neighbouring countries, where it was reported that since there is an epidemic of flu in St Petersburg and Moscow, special attention has been paid to the doctors' home visits. Don't come out sick, dear people, call a doctor home! We don't have that chance in a long time, see that for 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U92	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, this is one concrete example of how the country is becoming more and more aggregating life in rural areas. All health care services we should receive in the future in larger centres. The Minister said that the hospital is not an object of regional policy, but I think it certainly is. Then why is there so much money invested in county hospitals if they don't get a contract today? The hospital is ready to provide services, doctors are available, patients are available, equipment is available, so the health insurance fund should reduce the contract volume and direct these people to larger centres, i.e. Tartu or Tallinn? Will it be cheaper for the state and the citizen? I don't think so. If you come to the example of Põlva, there is so much reduction in contract volume that in order to comply with the wage agreement next year, the hospital should have more money of around EUR 400000. What does that mean? If the hospital does not have this money, then there are two options: whether doctors are allowed to leave because they cannot secure the required salary for them and the nurses, or if another redundancy is carried out, although there is virtually no one else to concentrate, because the compositions have already been reduced to a minimum. According to the head of the hospital, 35 people should be made redundant in order to comply with the wage agreement. And the concentration of 35 people is also an issue of regional policy. After all, these people are willing to provide this service on the ground and help people, they do not understand why they are trying to concentrate everything in the centre. Finally, the result is that there will be no one left in rural areas. As the statistics say, soon half of the Estonian population will be living in Tallinn and elsewhere in Harju County. Is this the direction of our future, and is it consistently implemented by the government? To claim that we have no money at all and there is nothing we can do is not right. As far as I know, the health fund has a reserve of EUR 190 million. Why can't we use this reserve? Are we going to let everything out of our hands and north here in Estonia and then start thinking about what could have been done differently? However, since the real time of crisis is still ahead, I believe that part of the money should be allocated to general hospitals in order to preserve their existence. And when it comes to money, there's no money in general. For example, the reserve for the unemployment fund should be around EUR 650 million. Who's it being held for? Of course, it cannot be used in medicine, but it could reduce the tax burden on businesses. These are examples of how, in essence, money from the sickness fund and the unemployment fund is used to maintain the balance of the state budget. I still come back to the question of what is cheaper for the state: to preserve life in the country or to force people to leave it? It will be relatively difficult, if not impossible, to reverse this process in the future. It's more expensive than ever, and it hasn't worked anywhere. And I don't think it's gonna work in Estonia either. Let's try to keep what we have today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U94	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The answer to the third question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U95	We will go to the fourth question, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Korbi, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Anneli Oti, Jaanus Karilaidi, Erki Savisaare, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Esmaa, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Andrei Novikov, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korbi, Kersti Sarapuu, Märt Sultsi, Kadri Simson, Mailis Repsi, Toomas Vitsut and Peeter Ernitsa concerning the state of Estonian Energy. It is presented to the Minister of Finance. I ask Mikhail Korb to perform on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce the question to the Minister of Finance on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group. The inquiry was submitted last November and relates to the situation of Eesti Energia. I will mention some of the facts which led to this inquiry being made. I will read the text of the inquiry: 'In the third quarter of this year, the sales revenue of Eesti Energia decreased by 13%, as well as the pre-war business profit decreased by 9% and the net profit decreased by 29% compared to the third quarter of 2014. The sales revenue of Eesti Energia decreased by 13.3% in the third quarter of this year compared to the third quarter of last year. According to the report, the decrease in the group's sales revenue was mainly due to the decrease in sales volume. Eesti Energia sold 1578 GWh of electricity in the third quarter of 2015, which was 711 GWh or 31.1% less than in the same period last year. [---] The fact that Eesti Energia has asked to reduce the dividend payment planned for this year also proves problems in the company. The company wants to pay EUR 62 million instead of the initially planned EUR 95 million in dividends this year in order to ensure that the company's financial figures are consistent with its commitments to creditors. The situation of the company is not currently improved by foreign investment in the USA and Jordan. In Jordan's development project, negotiations with banks and potential investors are still ongoing in order to complete the sale of Eesti Energia's participation in the project. The oil shale project in the USA has also revealed a number of disadvantages, which has resulted in plans and costs for the construction of the oil industry in the Utah desert of Eesti Energia. [---] The newly built Auvere power plant is also a source of concern. Auvere power plant is not economically profitable at current free market electricity prices. In order to make the investment of the new power plant profitable, the electricity price should be around EUR 80 MWh. In addition, the construction of the power plant has already been granted once by the state through capital injections to Eesti Energia and the free allocation of CO2 quotas has been subsidised. Now they want to pay renewable energy subsidies to the Auvere power plant, because it is also possible to mix wood with oil shale. This could be illegal State aid, which Estonia has had problems with in the past. ' In this regard, the members of the Centre Party Group have a number of questions that we want answers to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U97	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to an inquiry into the situation of Eesti Energia. First the question, then the specific answer to each question. Question 1: 'Eesti Energia wants to pay less dividends to the state budget in 2015 than was originally planned. How do you feel about that as Minister of Finance? Has the government's current dividend policy been reasonable from a business point of view? " Every owner probably wants to get as much dividends as possible, but the situation in the markets must be taken into account. If both electricity and oil prices are low, the profitability of energy producers, including Eesti Energia, is lower. The same applies to dividends. The State will shape the dividend policy of its companies, taking into account, firstly, the desire of each owner to earn a stable dividend flow and, secondly, the opportunities offered by the companies, including business prospects, investment needs and capital structure, as expected. During the last five years, Eesti Energia has paid more than a billion euros of labour, pollution, excise and income tax and dividends to the Treasury as income. In the light of the current negative developments in the economic environment, it was unreasonable to take dividends from Eesti Energia in the amount prescribed in the state's budget strategy. At the same time, it should be noted that the tax receipts exceeded the 2015 budget by 2.3%, which is why the lower amount of dividends in terms of revenue from the state budget did not cause problems. The situation of the market, which the government of the Republic of Estonia and Eesti Energia cannot influence, has changed in a direction that inevitably affects the financial position of Eesti Energia. For example, the price of an oil barrel has fallen almost twice in a year and the market price of electricity has remained recordly low. The average price of the Estonian region has fallen by about a quarter. The modification of the dividend payment must be taken as an adjustment to the current situation. More broadly, it is worth noting that consumers will benefit from low electricity and fuel prices. This applies to both Estonian entrepreneurs and households. The second question: 'Estonian Energy's largest foreign investment is in the USA and Jordan. How do you assess the current situation of these projects? How did the independent audit commissioned at the beginning of this year assess the Utah project? " Eesti Energia has long experience and knowledge in producing oil shale energy. This experience has also been tried in external projects. Interest in the commercial use of oil shale and the success of commercial projects depend, of course, on the price of oil for oil production and on the price of electricity for electricity generation. In Jordan and the USA, Eesti Energia has also made investments at an early stage of the projects itself, but this does not mean that Eesti Energia should remain the main shareholder when the projects materialise. You can also earn from the skills information as a technology partner and advisor. The state of play of the two external projects is briefly as follows: On 14 January the company that is developing the Jordan project, Eesti Energia, signed a financing agreement, while negotiations for the sale of the majority shareholding continue. In Jordan, there is a very large shortage of domestic electricity production and energy supplies from Egypt are disrupted, which is why there is a great desire at national level to diversify their energy portfolio. The Jordan project is still of great potential in the current situation. The conclusion of the audit of the Utah project that you referred to is not that the assets should be discounted, but, given the continuing fall in oil prices, the board has considered a more prudent approach. Understandably, the prospects of the Utah project are linked to the future evolution of oil prices. The project of Utah has not been stopped by Eesti Energia; the work will simply be continued on a smaller scale and with a reduced team. Development activities have been brought to Estonia and environmental permits and studies are further dealt with by a small local team. Question 3: 'The sales volume of Estonian Energy decreased by almost a third in the third quarter of this year. It is not possible to blame here for the warm winter because it is the third quarter. Why is Eesti Energia unable to compete on the market at low electricity prices? ' The effect of the warm winter referred to in the question is not direct but indirect. The warm winter left exceptionally large water resources in the reservoirs of Nordic hydroelectric plants, which have been used in practice throughout 2015. This has had a long-term impact on electricity prices. The volume of electricity sales by Eesti Energia fell by 31% in the third quarter. However, it should be borne in mind that Eesti Energia is not just a power generation company, and the company's sales revenue combined decreased significantly at the same time: 13.3%. The price of electricity on Nord Pool Spot's power exchange in the Estonian price area decreased by 27.9% in the third quarter of 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, comparable to the decrease in sales volume. The production and sale of electricity to the stock exchange largely depends on variable costs. The lower the variable cost of the producer, the more hours the producer will be able to offer its goods on the market. Compared to hydro power and wind power, oil shale electricity produces higher variable costs. Hydro and wind power generation has benefited from the most favourable weather conditions in recent years, which has resulted in the availability on the market of a large number of low or essentially non-existent variable-cost electricity for which renewable energy support is paid to the producer through different mechanisms. The variable costs of oil shale are influenced by environmental and resource charges, CO2 related costs and oil shale prices, none of which have fallen over the past few years, rather the opposite. As energy prices fall, Eesti Energia has paid great attention to increasing the efficiency of its entire production chain and to the more flexible use of production assets, which would enable more energy to be produced in more expensive hours and less expensive hours. Question 4: 'Auvere power plant would not be economically profitable at current free market electricity prices. Why was a power plant built that is not competitive without additional subsidies? How do you assess the payment of renewable energy support for wood burning in Auvere? Can it be interpreted as prohibited State aid in the European Union? 'The ripening Auvere power plant is the production capacity of AS Narva Power Plants with the highest efficiency, so it has the best chance of remaining in the market with its own production and remaining competitive. The argument that the Auvere power plant would not be profitable is not accurate. Based on the budget approved by the Estonian Energy Council, it can be believed that Auvere Station earns operating profits after its launch. However, the expected return is lower than expected at the time of the investment decision. It should be noted that when making the investment decision in 2010 and 2011, it was known that the profitability of the yard could be lower than economically rational, and that the investment decision had an important objective of ensuring the energy independence and security of the State. It is therefore necessary to take account of its non-economic benefits in terms of better energy security in the case of the Auvere 300 MW block. Under the current regulation, no national renewable energy support will be paid for the Auvere block. It is important to note, however, that Auvere Station is capable of using up to 50% of its biomass and that its emissions would be comparable to those of today's gas station. Additional renewable energy would be the cheapest of the alternatives, and the economic benefits would also be that there are millions of cubic metres of overripe low-value timber in Estonia's forests. Without support, however, it is not economically viable to use biomass as a fuel in the current market situation as its price per unit of energy is higher than that of oil shale. It is in itself an opportunity to trade in statistical units for renewable energy. Using the statistical trade scheme, it would be wise for Estonia to produce a significant amount of additional renewable energy in the coming years and to sell to another country the amount beyond the national target. Such a mechanism would not impose an additional burden on the state budget or the Estonian consumer in the form of a renewable energy fee. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has developed a system of less bids that is fully in line with the State aid regulations of the European Commission. If this were to happen, there would be an opportunity to pay minimum support to renewable energy producers at the expense of the country purchasing statistical units, which has become less attractive. Technologically neutral auctions shall be open to all producers who do not benefit from any existing support scheme, including the Auvere power plant. In your inquiry, you referred to the free CO2 quota allocated to Eesti Energia, which, as part of the statistical trade measure, will naturally have to be returned to Eesti Energia. This has already been taken into account in the design of the scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U99	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have rejected here the suspicion that renewable energy subsidies could constitute illegal State aid. I'm gonna stick to that word. This is certainly a wider problem and a very painful problem, given the recent Estonian Air case. Please tell us what is the mechanism in the government at all, which must ensure that there will be no more illegal State aid cases in Estonia. Who does and how does this work, and are there other sad examples that we should know?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U101	Thank you. I am trying not to spread the spectrum in response to the question today, I am trying to stay within the financial situation of Eesti Energia and, specifically, the possible issues that concern it. However, in an attempt to answer your question, I assure you that, of course, the government will always discuss the various issues by listening to the views of all parties, i.e. the ministers concerned. You specifically pointed out questions relating to Estonian Air. When the potential aid to Estonian Air was considered at the time, it was, of course, discussed whether it could be classified as State aid or not. Still watching all the nuances. We are now talking about possible statistics trade. If we were to start now with the trade in statistics, which has not started to work in itself, it would not be state aid because these units are sold outside Estonia without burdening the Estonian taxpayer. Buyers are countries whose quota trade has not reached sufficient levels.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U102	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to ask you a question about one of the news this year. A few days ago it was announced that the Government of the Republic allowed Eesti Energia to burn biomass. This is good news, only welcome, but this experience was already a few years ago when Eesti Energia was allowed to burn biomass in the same way. Then, if I am not mistaken, 40% of the support for renewable energy went to Eesti Energia, which led to opposition from other market participants or resentment and the system was changed. This block stood for a long time, but now I realize that the plan is to restart it. Once again, it's a good thing, but isn't there any obstacles this time that could ruin this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U104	Thank you, good questioner! That is a good question, and I think it makes sense to open it up a little more widely. True, as you said in the introduction to your question, years ago, biomass was allowed to be used in domestic consumption. This led to a situation where, in a conditional way, it was profitable to even put furniture in a boiler. In short, it created a situation where the price of timber increased dramatically. At this point in time, there are a couple of substantive differences compared to the situation a few years ago. Firstly, there is no more talk of domestic biomass consumption, there is talk of statistics trade. And this is certainly very important, since Auvere Station itself would allow a much larger amount of biomass to be used. But it is only about trade in statistics, the volumes of which are certainly considerably lower than domestic consumption is possible. There's another important filter. For statistical trade too, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is preparing a so-called "less bid system," which is somewhat similar to the former system of selling CO2 or AU. Each time the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications comes into government with a specific project to report on the process of how much electricity is being sold, the expected impact of the market on the timber sector. So each time, the decision is preceded by a real filter. The figures currently available to the government office show that there is so much low-value timber in the forest that we do not reach a situation in the context of the statistics trade where, by definition, a decent round wage would go into the oven rather than deserve it. There are several filters on it now, and I think that makes sense. Last time, you have to say, true story, that's exactly what you said years ago. The price of the wood went up, and it caused complications. If we are able to do this and why we should not be able to create a planned level of statistical trade, then it means that thousands of people will have additional jobs in the timber sector. Plus the benefits that low-value wood gets harvested out of the woods.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U105	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U106	Thank you, manager. Good minister! I do not want to debate timber and the jobs it brings, I think we will lose jobs more than we will win. All pellet producers, etc., are a different issue. But I'm asking about this statistical trade scheme. Is this scheme such that Eesti Energia produces electricity from biomass, it is sold to countries where emission allowances cannot be met, it receives money for the Government of the Republic of Estonia and this money is returned to Eesti Energia? Is it like this, or have I misunderstood something? I also ask why taxpayers' money in another country is different from that of taxpayers' money in Estonia. I do not believe in this scheme until the European Commission has shown in writing that it does not fall under State aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U107	Unfortunately, I cannot contribute to strengthening your beliefs. Of course, all people, including members of the Riigikogu, can believe something and not believe anything. There's no question. But basically, the scheme you described is really this in nature. In essence, countries trade with each other. It is logical that there could be potential interest in those countries that have missed the threshold for renewable energy. They are obliged to receive it in the European Union. It's different for us. We have a situation where we are actually producing more renewable energy than we have committed. In principle, yes, we would offer this opportunity to other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U108	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honorable Minister! I take this opportunity to have an experienced politician on the board who has been a member of the three previous Riigikogu as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, if I am not mistaken. Why has Estonia's energy policy been so volatile? In a relatively short time, conflicting decisions have been made that have required a lot of money. Does this relate only to a change of understanding, or does it have something to do with what political parties have formed at one time or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U110	I should reject one of your words. You asked why energy policy has been so volatile. So I should explain why it's fickle, but I rather think it hasn't been fickle in its nature. This should certainly be the way to ask you examples of what you mean by fickleness and how energy development plans have made some kind of heel turns over the years. There hasn't been a chance. At the moment, however, we need to take into account that the world prices for both oil and electricity are those that were certainly not taken into account years ago. But in this reality we live today, and that is what the management of Eesti Energia comes from, doing tests on its cover values. They must take into account that the productivity of these assets is quite different from years ago due to world market prices. Of course, everyone has to adapt to it. The worst thing is that we live in wishful thinking and that our vision for the future does not adapt to reality by drawing up different development plans. I remember years ago the activities related to the development plans for defence capabilities were envisaged. Unfortunately, when the boom ended in 2008 and 2009, our GDP did not grow as high as expected. Some kind of correction had to be made. Such adjustment in all aspects of life is very logical; there is nothing strange about it. So I think that our policy is not fickle, but rather adaptable to the market situation. But really, looking back in time, one might wonder if the decision made in 2011 on Auvere was the right one. Did it have to be done? As I said in one reply, this decision took into account that the 'classical' expectation of profitability could be lower, as energy security was prioritised. I do not think that I am, by nature, the most correct defender of this decision here; I was not a member of the government when this decision was made in the government in 2011. But we can probably see the great benefits of this station after ten years and more, when a real window of time has already emerged. Let us not forget that this station should serve the Estonian state for 40 years and perhaps more. This is actually the expected period of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U111	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm gonna give my benchmate a second, ask her about the same subject. I still don't understand the same question about chipping wood. If the decision is taken in the same way in 2009 and in 2011 in the opposite direction, how will businesses even know what the state supports, how will they be taken into account? Is that still not fickle? Of course, we need to make adjustments to the development plans, but we can base our approach to renewable energy, etc. Please state once again the reasons on which you claim that there is no fickleness here!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U113	I have actually tried to go quite deep in my response to this issue. Let us not forget that in the case of Auvere, the proportion of biomass can actually be up to 50%. Of course, I think that if Eesti Energia could make full use of this capacity and pay back the subsidies it has received in the form of a renewable energy fee, it would certainly create a situation in which it could undisputedly compete with all other renewable energy producers. There's nothing to say. However, there is currently an agreement that biomass will not be used for domestic consumption. We might rather take a positive view of this, otherwise the price of timber could increase further. It has been agreed that the capacity that the company currently has will be used in the context of the statistics trade, and I think that this agreement will also have an impact on the fiscal figures of Eesti Energia in the future. This effect will not be evident immediately next year, it will be longer. But the decision that biomass could be used in the context of statistical trade in itself will certainly have an impact in the long term. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U114	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U115	Good manager! Good minister! I come to these Mormons and their oil fields in Utah. Eesti Energia brought this development to Tallinn and, as I understand it, is involved in the finalisation of this project. But how much has development cost so far? And the second question: how long is it going to wait before this project is going to be offered to investors?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U116	In the context of the next question, we will certainly devote more attention to this issue. But preconceivedly, the amount invested so far in the Utah project is $52 million. I have to specify whether it's a dollar or a euro, but I think it's a dollar. Well, that's the order of magnitude. And it is clear that there is a small difference between Jordan and Jordan. In the case of Utah, if Eesti Energia also owns raw materials there, it does not have raw materials in Jordan. There, oil shale belongs to the state. Now, given the current price of oil, Eesti Energia certainly has not only a need, but also an obligation to review its business plans and, according to the information received, they are working on it. It is necessary to change the business plan on the basis of the prices of the final product and also to look at possible alternatives. In answer to the next question, I will explain in more detail what by-products they have planned to produce in addition to oil shale oil. And now the other part of your question: shouldn't they be thinking about looking for partners from investors? Perhaps we should also think about whether Eesti Energia should be the largest owner anywhere, perhaps it should sell its know-how and technology. I understand that Eesti Energia is also active in this area. He's already looking for a partner. This work has come about itself, and it is not a frozen project that would come back to in many years' time. Rather, intensive work is being carried out to maximise its value in the context of existing world market prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U117	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The fourth question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U118	We will proceed to the fifth question, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaasa, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison and Arno Silla, about the intention of Eesti Energia to write down the investments of Auvere and Utah. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister of Finance. Please speak on behalf of the heirs, Mr Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U119	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! To begin with, we have to say that our question is the right old, soon to be two months old. As a result, not all the questions here are so topical. Although the previous inquiry has already led us in, I do read it nicely. According to Eesti Päevaleht (26.11.2015), Eesti Energia is preparing to write down investments to a large extent, including the Auvere station and the Utah oil shale field. Although the sense of the 640 million investment at Auvere Station has been discussed for years, Eesti Energia wants to write down nearly half of this investment at the end of this year. The second problem is the Utah Maardla in the United States, which has already received EUR 51 million. The running costs have been minimised, but the project still absorbs around EUR 1 million per year. " In this regard, please answer the following questions. Is it true that we are talking about the write-down of investments? Is it true that if the payment of the renewable energy fee to Eesti Energia is not restored, this means that the Auvere station will be reduced by 300 million? Since it has become apparent that the Utah region would only consume oil from oil shale, not gas and electricity because there is no infrastructure, and even oil should be transported very far away and a refinery built, the investment does not make sense. Why was Eesti Energia not previously aware of this? Is the Utah project planned to be completed or continued? Could selling Estonian oil shale technology abroad be more useful than building expensive factories, deposits and routes far from Estonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U120	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I respond to an inquiry concerning the intention of Eesti Energia to write down investments in Auvere and Utah. There are five questions in total, and I will answer them in turn. First of all, the first question: "Is it true that we are talking about the write-down of investment? " On 19 January, Eesti Energia announced through the stock exchange system and by way of a separate press release information that a discount on two assets was required in connection with the obligation to test the amount of its assets covered by the accounting rules. I would point out that no investment was written off. This is a reduction in value due to a change in the market situation, which can be reversed as prospects improve. The second question: 'Is it true that if the payment of the renewable energy fee to Eesti Energia is not restored, this would mean a 300 million write-down of the Auvere station? " In a press release already mentioned, Eesti Energia informed the public that the value of the Auvere station was reduced by about 40 million euros. This discount does not require national support for renewable energy to be paid to Eesti Energia, but the planned amendment to the Electricity Market Act, which regulates trade in statistics with other countries, has been taken into account. In essence, it is a compensation for the increase in the variable cost of producing renewable energy by electricity consumers in other countries. The third question: 'Because it has become clear that the Utah area would only consume oil from oil shale and not gas and electricity (no infrastructure) and even oil should be transported very far and a refinery should be built, then the investment does not make sense. Why was Eesti Energia not previously aware of this? ' Since the investment you referred to, crude oil prices have dropped approximately three times. For this reason, sales of other by-products are also on the agenda. The potential of Utah deposits is currently being explored, so there is no reason to definitively claim that oil shale oil by-products cannot be marketed. Environmental permits will also continue to be applied for. In the light of current market prices, the business plan of the project is being changed, as I said in reply to the previous question. The company is working to improve the competitiveness of the technology. For example, more electricity could be produced than initially planned, and improvements can be made to the technical solution so that other by-products can be produced and marketed: butane, propane, ethane, etc. The management of Eesti Energia is currently operating according to the market situation and is trying to improve the business plan of the project so that investors can be involved in the future, as in the case of Jordan. Question 4: Is the Utah project planned to be completed or continued? The Utah project will be continued on a significantly reduced scale. The Management Board of Eesti Energia has made a comparison of different policy scenarios. In order to protect the investment and to realise the best opportunities, it is not reasonable to terminate the project as a matter of urgency. The business plan is currently being updated and potential partners are being sought. Question 5: "Can selling Estonian oil shale technology abroad be more useful than building expensive factories, deposits and routes far from Estonia? ' Since oil shale technology is not very common in the world and Eesti Energia is probably the most competent company in this field, it would undoubtedly be the easiest to sell only technology. At the same time, there are certain characteristics in each particular location, both in the desired product, electricity and oil shale, as well as in the raw materials. Oil shale has different qualities and compositions. Therefore, it is not possible to develop a common and universal oil shale use technology to be sold to interested parties. To ensure the productivity and reliability of technology, partners want Eesti Energia to contribute to the entire investment project. Generally speaking, without its own contribution and initiative it would be difficult to sell the know-how gathered in Eesti Energia, at least until the company has proven itself outside Estonia as a capable and reliable technology partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U122	Thank you. You have questions too. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U123	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! I'm focusing on the same Utah. First of all, I wonder what the total investment volume of Utah is. What amount of Eesti Energia or more widely has the Estonian state been issued? Secondly, the environmental permit issue ran through here. Environmental problems are a very high risk factor there. It's been heard that the Utah State Constitution doesn't really allow us to use the technology we use. There was also a prospect or a misperception of what you were saying. When we talk about the total volume of this investment, what is this perspective, when are we going to make that money back or get to zero?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U124	As I said, the total volume has been 52 million, and by now almost half of it has been valued at 26 million assets. I think that the discount is based on conservative estimates from the board, given the current market situation. If the final sale price of the product changes to the best of the best, it is always possible to take the next steps. The Management Board of Eesti Energia is currently working to review business plans on the basis of an existing investment, to analyse the possibilities for additional by-products, the capacity to involve new partners. This work in Eesti Energia is ongoing. The potential partner and potential market price depend very much. It can be expected that at the current market price it will not be possible to start production of large volumes. This would most likely mean that variable costs would increase to such an extent that day-to-day activities would be impossible. But once again, the business plan is being prepared, and when it's done, we will definitely get better information in a renewed situation to make important decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U125	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U126	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about Auvere. The news in the press did indeed show that it could be estimated at up to EUR 300 million. Did this amount be reduced by the expectation of statistical trade? If there is no statistics trade, can we still talk about the same amount that has been used as speculation at some EUR 300 million? After all, all hope has been placed on the statistics trade.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U127	I don't really want to go along with speculation. That's the hardest part when you have to comment on speculation. Then I would always like to say that let the people who have thrown these speculations into the air comment. Others find it very difficult to comment on them. It is certainly worth stressing that Eesti Energia is a stock exchange company. People always ask, what do you mean, a stock exchange doesn't have stock on the stock market? But he has bonds on the stock market and this means that Eesti Energia is a stock exchange company. This means that any information will first be communicated to the stock market. And there's no way inside the company that the minister will come and say, "Hey, let the price of the company be like this today, and tomorrow it will be like this." No, it's a big company, one of Estonia's biggest. In order to take decisions, the board has a duty of due diligence to carry out annual tests on the cover values of the company's assets. Every year! When I answered one earlier question, I already said that last year's Utah audit did not prescribe that it should make a discount, but it was done. The Bureau discussed the situation and stated that this had to be done on the basis of the principle of prudence. On the basis of the overlay test, the value of the assets has been estimated by 40 million and approved by the auditors. Speculation about 300 million or even more is unfounded. At the same time, I am quite sure that the potential use of biomass in the statistical trade would give Auvere greater turnover, give the opportunity to export its own production and also to value the factory itself. Because what's important about one plant? On the one hand, it is important what the prices of products coming from the factory are, which the market determines, and on the other hand, it is important how many buyers of one or the other product are. This would certainly give Auvere a better output than it could offer in the context of the statistics trade. Well, it's not sure he can do it right now, is it? After all, there must be a country ready to buy this product and there must be negotiations at what price and in what amounts that country, whoever it is, is willing to buy specific energy. So there are a lot of questions. It is not so easy that today, somewhere in the office, a decision was made that trade in statistics is allowed, and now it is going to be a hard bargain. No, no, no! This also requires the other side, and it is more like the buyer's market, not the seller's market. Still the buyer says, you know, I want this amount and I'm willing to pay that price.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U128	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U129	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Various alternatives have emerged to the agenda. So far, the production of petrol and the use of gas had been forgotten. In the present situation, the making of oil is likely to be in the same line. It is also known that the production of oil shale electricity will be restricted and will soon end. Has it been discussed that our scientific oil shale studies, which were high in our time, and which dealt with 40 to 60 products, could still be applied? Perhaps this American project is also stunting oil because of the low price. Have such plans been made?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U130	I'd generally move towards the lonely. The government as a whole is making an effort to achieve this, which is essentially fiscally measurable, in order to increase research funding. In the context of the budget, this is about channelling taxpayers' money into concrete projects. When we are talking specifically about entrepreneurs, all the major Estonian companies in this sector have also done more or less to develop research. Eesti Energia, being the largest company, has also done so. At all, Eesti Energia is working to adapt as well as possible to the existing situation. You asked what other possible activities of the energy company could be, products that could be sold on the market. It's being dealt with. If you asked a similar question about the Viru Chemistry Group, you would have the same answer. I understand that they too have been thinking about a number of products that are not just classic simple oil shale oil. Pretty good science is also done in this particular private company.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U131	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In fact, it's a bit strange. Half a decade has already been spent on the Eesti Energia project in Utah, and now we hear from you that some sort of business plan is being prepared. This is somewhat strange, business plans should still be together earlier. Information has also appeared in the press in the past that the contract signed in Utah provides for various fines in case production is not started at the agreed time. We have just heard from you that there is no intention to start production. Do we then face fines and, if so, to what extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U133	Thank you. We're in the same room, but we understand things differently. I'll start at a distance from the business plan. It would be very strange if companies did not adapt to the existing market situation, especially when it comes to taxpayers' money. This market was introduced years ago and the situation has now changed greatly. I'm sure you won't deny it. I think the business plans that Eesti Energia had in making this decision would certainly not work today. If they did not adapt or change their business plans according to the market situation, they would not perform the due diligence that managers have taken on their shoulders. So it would be unrealistic to rely on the business plans on which the market was once entered. So much for a business plan. Your second question was about starting production. I have not said that production will not begin. I said that the business plan is being drawn up, first, and, second, looking for potential partners. Those were two things I said. If they ultimately lead to the need to start production, it is worthwhile to start building a proper infrastructure and any other activities necessary for the sale of one or the other production, then it must also be started. It is certainly not necessarily the conclusion that production should not start. Just in the current market situation, the business plan that ever entered the market doesn't work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U134	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U135	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm coming back to that Mormon deposits. There are reportedly 6 billion tons of oil shale in the depths of the Mormons. A few years ago, Estonian Energy Development Actors there told the American press that it would take billions of dollars to make it work. You said 52 million have been spent. Scissors are a little big. Was there a false story that day? And can there ever be anything to produce?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U136	I can't comment on what they said back then. Today I can comment on what is the current situation and on how to try to go along with the best possible solutions in this current situation. This should certainly be the action that drives us: a) to discuss this issue and b) to find a solution, whatever it is. I think it is worth following closely the progress of investments made on the basis of previous decisions made by Eesti Energia in the future not only anno Domini 2016, but also later. Eesti Energia is still a company established by the taxpayer. I think it is also important to monitor very closely how he can cope with the new market situation. It must be noted that decisions taken have never fully justified themselves, at least in the case of Utah. Jordan seems to be in a different situation. The Jordanian country itself also has a very strong interest in using its local resources and thereby less dependent on the energy provided by neighbouring countries, mainly Egypt. So there's a very clear interest. In Jordan, however, Eesti Energia does not have this resource itself; it is not owned by it. In Utah's case, the resource is owned by the company, but the price of the final product resulting from the resource has unfortunately gone down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U137	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Listening to this discussion right now, there was an idea that maybe Utah and Jordan are not very involved, but are linked to local problems. I would like to take this opportunity to discuss this issue now. Here's the question. Not a long time ago, news came out that the Viru Chemistry Group had to lay off 500 people. Eesti Energia also produces oil and probably oil production there is very well developed. I'm not exactly aware of the facts, but there is a suspicion that the oil production division of the Viru Chemistry Group is not working effectively or is not working profitably. How does one company have to lay people off and the other one doesn't have to? The prices are the same. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U139	I'm trying to answer you. I wouldn't want to in depth dismantle the work of Viru Chemistry Group. This is a private company. But since the question was also related to the Viru Chemistry Group, I inform Parliament so much that last week I sent all the major companies in this sector, e.g. Eesti Energia, Viru Chemistry Group and Alexela, a letter asking their leaders to give an overview of the current fiscal problems in the sector. Some of the answers have already arrived by this day. I think that we need to think about the state's position, and also about the Viru Chemistry Group, what impact a change in tax policy could have. Thanks to the state's provision of its resource, it receives a resource fee, and receives various charges related to the environment, pollution of all this side. The company employs employees and the state receives income through labour taxes. Finally, if the company is profitable, it is likely that the owners will receive dividends and the State will receive income tax from them. The alternative is that the company closes its doors. It will no longer be able to sell its production because it is not competitive or whatever these reasons are. Then the whole chain disappears in fiscal terms. The state must therefore decide how it is able, for certain reasons, to meet world market prices and how much this would help. What could such a response mean in what it is? I think that in the near future, the state will certainly have to make rapid analyses, because the true story, the price of both oil and electricity, is both very low. The situation needs to be reviewed. If, by definition, certain charges could be made dependent on world market prices, then in good times, the company would pay more fees because its selling price is higher, and in difficult times, the state would charge this amount less, or perhaps at some point, no remuneration at all. I don't want to make any promises, but I believe that the short term will bring some solutions to our table. That's what I'm working for. The second part of your question was how Eesti Energia has managed so well that it has not had to lay off. Of course, Estonia has gathered people over the years. If we look back in time, we can see that it has been for different reasons since the company has been effective in its technology. Chamber technology has provided an opportunity to excavate oil shale more effectively. But there have been other reasons. In the case of Eesti Energia, it is important that it has been able to operate on several markets at once. It produces not only oil shale but also electricity that has been able to balance its state. I'm sure it's helped him to be more of a plexibile. But yes, the question you raised is serious. The state must certainly review the relevant processes and, if necessary, be prepared to change certain tax or fee policy decisions. It doesn't happen very often, but right now it's a reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U140	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U141	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Also on this item, I am a little interested in the recent history of Estonian politics. If now the most optimistic predictions come true, and this EUR 52 million proves to be a very profitable and right investment, who is it that we have to build a monument for? To Andrus Ansip, Juhan Parts, Sandor Liive, Jüri Käo, then chairman of the council, to the adviser Dominic Freely of America who became acquainted with us through the Estonian Express, or to someone who has not yet been known? Perhaps the other way around: whose idea was it and who took responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U142	Well, I guess it's always like, when something good is born, people want to step forward in person, and when something bad is born, they say it was a collective decision, the collective took a stand. Then make sure you find out who was the lead man in the collective. Finally, the collective is collective. Before you gave me a reverend, mentioning my long-term political experience. I think I should give you a reverend now. That is how I say that you, as a Member with long political experience, are approaching questions from such a competition that dialogue also includes the beauty of democracy. I think history shows who gets the right to go to the chest for good results. But ultimately, some decisions, as they are in the chain, are made by the company's board of directors. And when it comes to strategic or security policy decisions, for example, as was the case with Auvere, it was the cabinet that took the view that we should definitely build Auvere on the basis of energy security. History shows how it really develops. There is no parallel world.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U143	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have this question: don't you think it was a mistake to connect Eesti Energia with Eesti Põlevkivi? At present, many people, such as the employees of Narva's career, feel that this was the wrong step. If Eesti Põlevkivi were a separate company, they could market their products at a normal price, they had the opportunity to sell it to Eesti Energia at a good price. But now the buyer decides the price he buys. They think that's why they have to lay off people right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U145	I wouldn't dissect that question here. I don't want to judge a wide range of decisions from a long historical course. But it seems to me that it is more of a state resource. It's nothing more than a state resource, it's not one person or another. The oil shale we are talking about here today is state property in the best sense of it. I think that it cannot be the case in a country that one is satisfied and the other is not satisfied. The state is whole. We must create a situation where we deserve our resource, in this case oil shale, to the maximum. There can be no situation where I want to mine and I want to sell you oil shale at a price of x euros, but the world market price is quite different. This is not possible, especially when it comes to state assets. It is rather the case that, by looking at the synergies that have arisen by putting the two companies together, the decision taken seems correct. But we're going to be very spread out with our questions and answers. We will certainly not be able to go through the entire history of Eesti Energia and Estonian oil shale for a hundred years in the framework of this inquiry. That's not even possible with the best of wishes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U146	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The fifth question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U147	Let's move on to the sixth question. This is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Oudekki Loone, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Esmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Erki Savisaare, Anneli Oti, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Korbi, Peeter Ernitsa, Toomas Vitsut and Mailis Reps about the bond purchase programme and it is submitted to the Minister of Finance. I ask Kadri Samson to speak on behalf of the inquisitors!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U148	When the answer to the previous question reached the glorious time of Eesti Energia, this question concerns a period shorter than a year. In particular, the European Central Bank launched a bond purchase programme in March 2015. Since then, euro area central banks have mainly purchased their national bonds for EUR 60 billion per month. And all central banks buy a share of this 60 billion according to the national economy. Eesti Pank participates in the asset purchase programme with around 120 million euros per month. The programme was due to end in September, but last December it was decided that the central bank would extend the bond purchase programme until March 2017 or until inflation in the euro area reached the target set by the European Central Bank. The aim of these bonds is to stimulate economic growth in the euro area and to keep inflation below and close to 2%. If the rest of the euro area countries can really stimulate their economies by buying bonds, Estonia will not have these opportunities. We do not have government bonds and, by the only exception, we have received permission to buy Elering bonds on the secondary market for a maximum of EUR 35 million. Every month, however, purchases are made in Estonia for nearly 120 million euros. We have already drawn attention to the fact that the asset purchase programme, which is designed to boost the economy, is completely unusable in Estonia on several occasions. In June, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas spoke with us on this subject, and last September, Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson was here. Now, however, we have reached the point where at least one of the government's political parties is the IRL, which also includes the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, has said with a loud voice that bonds should be spoken about. Namely, the IRL had such great thought struggles, where the chairman of their party, Margus Tsahkna, not only allowed Estonia to grow into a state with two million Estonians, but also talked about economic dogs. I quote him: 'Wouldn't it be time to revisit dogma and issue bonds for strategic investments to trigger major infrastructure projects? [---] If we want to see a country that is competitive here in 30 years' time, we must ask these questions today without fear of losing the coalition agreement that is in force today. " So the IRL has understood the same subject that the Reform Party has not understood for some time. We therefore also expect the Minister of Finance to be involved. We have asked him five questions, and I will not read them to speed up my work. The minister can do it himself and answer the questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U149	Thank you. Please, Minister of Finance, you have an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioners! This introduction was a bit like mush and cabbages. It seemed that the bonds were an end in themselves, although in my opinion the bond was only one financial instrument for achieving a purpose. To put it simply, if we want to build the road to Tallinn in four lines, we either take out a loan or issue bonds. This certainly cannot be an end in itself, but it seems that it has already changed its purpose. But I'm trying to answer, or I'm not just trying, but I'm going to answer all the questions I've been asked. Let's go in turn. First of all, the first question: 'What kind of bonds has Eesti Pank acquired most under the purchase programme? " Eesti Pank buys the bonds of the European institutions in the form of buy-in purchases; Estonia does not have government bonds. Other countries also make replacement purchases in cases where there are insufficient quantities of sovereign bonds available. In June 2015, Eesti Pank was authorised to buy Elering's government-owned network company bonds as part of the buy-in. As at the end of December, Eesti Pank's purchases amounted to 1.24 billion euros, in which Elering's bonds amounted to 47 million euros. Eesti Pank publishes statistics on bonds purchased under the asset purchase programme on its website. The second question: 'The idea of a bond purchase programme is to stimulate economic growth in countries. Eesti Pank buys bonds and thereby grows the economies of other countries. We know that Estonia's economic growth was among the last three countries in Europe according to Eurostat data in the third quarter of 2015. Why does the government not issue state bonds to boost the Estonian economy? ' First of all, it should be noted that the purchase programme is not intended to improve the situation of individual countries or bond issuers, but to keep long-term loans in the euro area below interest rates and to support financial markets. The European Central Bank's programme for the purchase of government bonds buys sovereign bonds from different countries and thus increases the amount of free money to boost the economy. One of the prerequisites of the programme is that the current owners of the bonds invest or consume in the production of fixed assets through the sale of government bonds. The Estonian state has not issued bonds and the issuance of new bonds to the economy would not have any effect if the other conditions remained the same, as Estonian investors' money is not currently covered by Estonian government bonds. Through those Estonian investors who have purchased bonds from other euro area countries, the bond purchase programme works and this could be an incentive for economic growth. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that Estonian entrepreneurs in general do not have a problem with financing investments, as bank loans are available and profitability has recovered rapidly since the crisis has also enabled to invest its own funds. However, the Estonian economy is affected by asset purchases. For example, the exchange rate has its impact because the weakening of the euro improves the competitiveness of Estonian export products. Exports account for over three quarters of Estonia's gross domestic product. Half of our exports go to non-euro area markets, where the weakening of the euro will improve the competitiveness of our products. Secondly, the current low interest rates, which are clearly due to the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, including asset purchases, and the prospect that interest rates will remain low in the coming years, will increase investment activity here. This will encourage businesses to invest and create new jobs. The government can boost the economy by easing the structural balance. There are several options to cover the nominal budget deficit resulting from this, of which only one is the use of government bonds. The calculations show that Estonia would be more advantageous to use a loan to cover the deficit. Therefore, from a narrow state point of view, the issuance of bonds may not be appropriate to cover the nominal budget deficit. Estonia's economic growth has recently been to shape disproportionately strong externalities. Among other things, the demand environment in Finland, our main export partner, has steadily deteriorated in recent years. Exports to Russia have decreased both due to trade sanctions and due to the sharp economic downturn there. The Estonian energy sector must adapt to lower oil prices than before. And so on. There is certainly no reason to argue that the fastest growth in other countries in the third quarter would be due to government bond purchases. It should be stressed that the European Central Bank's objective is to keep inflation in the euro area below and close to 2% in the medium term. Low interest rates stimulate economic activity for a short period of time. Structural reforms that increase the country's competitiveness are more important to ensure long-term growth. Question 3: 'The President of the Bank of Estonia Ardo Hansson said in the Riigikogu that the purchase of Eesti Energia bonds has also been under discussion. What has become of this idea? ' The Governing Council of the European Central Bank decides to add bonds to the purchase list on the basis of certain criteria. So far, the Council has not taken such a decision. The possibility of buying Eesti Energia bonds has been studied, but these bonds do not yet meet all the criteria. At the same time, it cannot be excluded that Eesti Energia's bonds will be added to the purchase list at some point. In making a positive decision, it is important that bond purchases do not distort competition between companies. This means that it is not possible at present to buy corporate bonds operating in competitive conditions. Question 4: 'The decision made at the beginning of December shows that, in addition to government bonds, local authorities or regional bonds can also be purchased. Can and how can Estonia benefit from this decision? ' The details of buying local governments and regional bonds are still specified, but according to the current information, there are no suitable bonds in Estonia. The monetary policy of the central bank shall not cause any change in the financial capacity of any State or local government. The debt taken must still be repaid and the investment made with the help of the debt must be profitable. The reason why the Estonian state and local authorities have not often issued bonds is due to the cost of issuing the bonds and the difficulties in securing a secondary market with sufficient liquidity for the bonds. If a small local authority in European terms issues a bond, only a few transactions will shape this price on the secondary market, and monthly price fluctuations may exceed the risk tolerance of the average investor. A close assessment of credit risk may also affect the prices of other financing channels, including bank loans. Therefore, financial managers of quite large cities in Estonia have often preferred financing through bank loans. In addition, it should be taken into account that the cost of issuing a bond is generally significantly higher than the cost of financing a bank loan. The difference in costs at relatively low volumes may be higher than the sum saved in the primary issue due to the difference in interest rates. The second half of the question contains the assumption that, if an Estonian local government bond is issued, Eesti Pank can immediately buy it from the secondary market. This is not guaranteed, however, because it is first necessary to request that this bond be accepted as collateral for monetary policy operations. To this end, the requirements of the European Central Bank must be met quite rigorously and only then can the inclusion of a specific bond in the list of underlying assets and possible purchases be considered. And even if the bond is on the purchase list, there must be investors who first buy it from the market. The central bank can buy a specific bond only on the secondary market, with a maximum purchase limit of up to a quarter of the volume of the issue. At least three quarters of the issue will in any case remain in the portfolios of other investors. Question 5: 'The purchase of debt securities, or the printing of money, has contributed to the rise in property prices and the weakening of the euro. For ordinary people, this means an increase in the price of apartments and houses and a poorer exchange rate outside the euro area. Money printing also reduces people's purchasing power because less goods and services can be bought with the same money. The biggest losers are the ones who save. What safeguard mechanisms do you intend to implement against the negative effects of money printing? " First of all, I note that the question of inquiry No 2 was concerned by the question of whether growth is being stimulated enough, but that it is concerned about its possible consequences. There's a certain contradiction here. You can either turn left or right, but not in both directions at the same time, not even in opposition. One of the objectives of money printing is to speed up inflation and thus increase consumption activity. In the case of a bond purchase programme, the European Central Bank has a normal inflation target of up to 2%. The programme does not aim to trigger excessive price increases. Moreover, due to the low world market prices, Estonia's inflation has been close to zero in the last two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U151	Thank you. You have questions too. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U152	Thank you. The chairman of your party called for a waiver from the dogmas involved in the issue of bonds. What do you think has been the reason that all the rest of the euro area countries have issued bonds? Why have they made such a mistake, if Estonia has yet been able to avoid it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U153	Look, I also looked into the questions and answers that have only been sounding in this hall a while ago. You have asked the Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson something similar. I think he also responded very well by commenting on the asset purchase programme. I am about to get to different countries too, but before I quote Ardo Hansson: 'The insolvency programme cannot be the reason why one country increases the debt burden on its government. Under the asset purchase programme, the bond holder will change but the volume of bonds issued by the countries will not grow. Overall, a reduction in public debt in the euro area as a whole is essential. In the euro area, the government debt ratio is projected to fall from 92% of GDP last year to 89% of GDP by 2017. ' Our figure is, of course, much lower. Thus, the asset purchase programme cannot be the reason why one country increases the debt burden on its government. Another very important sentence was: 'The insolvency programme cannot be the main reason for public investment either. ' Public investment must earn money borrowed in accordance with both business logic and European Union rules, because the debt must be repaid regardless of who the creditor is. And you see, here is also the question for you and me, to the questioner, to the Minister of Finance and to Parliament. We should consider the most beneficial decision for the taxpayer when making our decisions. In my third week as Minister of Finance, I asked the Head of the Treasury to calculate how much it would cost to issue a government bond. I am not going to talk about what the minimum volumes are or about Estonia being a very small country and what the volumes that are actually wanted to be seen in the market when one or the other bond is issued. I asked for a calculation of the cost to the taxpayer of borrowing and issuing bonds. In this sense, I agree with you that the sovereign debt note must not be taboo in its nature. If anyone says it's taboo, I'm the Minister of Finance saying it's not taboo. If it turns out that a government bond is cheaper for the Estonian taxpayer than a loan, then I will be the first to come before you with this proposal. Because why wouldn't I? The Estonian taxpayer's money is at stake, which we are paying for the financial instrument. But once again, the questioning of the questioners is over, as if the government bond were an end in itself. It's not! It really isn't! It's a financial instrument for some purpose, no matter what its purpose is. As I have previously brought to Tallinn an example of the Tartu highway, it is still one of the financial means to achieve the goal. And we are purely based on what is more beneficial to the taxpayer. Before I said that on my third week of work, I asked the head of the Treasury to calculate what is now more useful. Turns out to take out a loan. Yes, we do not have much credit, especially compared to other European countries, and the loan is now more useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U154	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. We have finished addressing the sixth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U155	Let's go to today's last, seventh question. This is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Kersti Sarapuu, Kadri Simson, Märt Sults, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamme, Erki Savisaare, Anneli Oti, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi, Peeter Ernitsa, Toomas Vitsut and Mailis Repsi about VAT fraud, which has also been submitted to the Minister of Finance. Kersti Sarapuu, a member of the Riigikogu, comes to the floor on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U156	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, With everything the Minister of Finance just said on the remote, I'm not very happy. I can simply refer here to the nuance that why our entrepreneurs are not investing at the moment. Has faith in your country disappeared? The Estonian Taxpayers' Association has made a number of proposals to achieve a better business environment. One of the more concrete proposals is that reverse charge should be used more to curb tax fraud, such as the provision of construction services, buying-in of agricultural products, fuel consumption. Last Tuesday, at the meeting of the Finance Committee, the Ministry of Finance slides presented the work plan of the Ministry of Finance. It was a pleasure to see these issues being dealt with. On behalf of the members of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, however, I made an inquiry to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, regarding the involvement of VAT fraud in this matter. We have found that a very large proportion of tax fraud is committed in so-called chain transactions, where there is an opportunity to deduct input VAT. The intermediate transaction, which is liable to pay VAT, does not declare it or simply fails to pay it. In the case of reverse charge, the taxable buyer of the goods or services shall be liable for payment of VAT. As a result, there is generally no actual payment of VAT to the budget or refund of input VAT by the State. In Estonia, the reverse VAT tax is used for the turnover of metal waste, gold and, in certain cases, immovable property. This is also permitted in certain cases for the provision of construction services. The amendments to the VAT Act, which entered into force at the beginning of July 2014, entered into force in order to ensure an equal competitive environment, were subject to the reverse charge of all precious metals, metal materials containing precious metals and precious stones. Ficative gold trade had led to millions from the state budget for years, and after the law entered into force, tax revenue from this sector began to become available within a few months. The precious metals sector is certainly not fully organised and the Tax and Customs Board must continue to monitor and control activities there in order to prevent tax fraudsters involved in the gold business and to remove from the VAT register companies that do not have any real economic activity. At present, precious metals, precious metal and scrap are taxed in this way, as well as investment gold and immovables, when the taxable person has decided to tax such turnover. As far as real estate is concerned, as a rule, it is tax-free turnover. When informing the tax authority before the transaction takes place, the sale or rental of immovable property may be subject to VAT on a voluntary basis if the transaction is between taxable persons. Voluntary taxation cannot be used in the case of the sale or rental of a dwelling. At first glance, it may seem strange at all why an entrepreneur might wish to add VAT on a voluntary basis, but in fact there is a perfectly understandable and logical justification for it. If the seller of the immovable property itself has done so for the immovable property to be sold, either by buying it or also by improving the VAT-taxed costs and deducting these costs as input VAT, then in the case of tax-free sales, the input VAT paid on purchase or construction should be refunded to the State. However, if the new buyer of the property is a business person, adding VAT to the transaction is not a problem for him. The seller voluntarily adds VAT to the transaction and retains the right to deduct input VAT and the buyer can deduct the added VAT as input VAT. That is why we have asked the Minister of Finance four questions, which we are asking for answers to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U157	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear members of the Riigikogu, first of all, thank you for your questioning! Like all previous enquiries, this is essential to give an overview of a particular subject. I would like to say in advance that my personal opinion has also been asked here today that this issue of reverse charge is relatively important and I think it needs to be dealt with further. Of course, there are different politicians and people have different ideas. Some view reverse charge as a possible measure pessimistic. However, I certainly represent the view that it is worth paying attention to and that action must be taken in this direction. But now I'm going to go to specific questions and answers. First of all, the first question: 'The Estonian Tax and Customs Board estimates that more than 300 million euros in value added tax (VAT) came from the Estonian tax hole in 2013. How does the government intend to reduce the tax gap by VAT? 'According to the corrected data, the VAT gap in 2013 was 281 million, or almost 300 million euros, as you did. It decreased by EUR 56 million in 2014. The VAT hole was therefore EUR 225 million in 2014. The VAT hole is likely to have fallen in 2015, but we do not yet know the exact size of the tax hole. This indication will most likely reach us in June-July, when Statistics will be able to do some calculations. In addition to the VAT return alone, KMD INF, where invoice details are to be declared, has provided EUR 80 million in VAT revenue in 2015. The biggest recent change in reducing the tax hole has been the effective introduction of an annex to the VAT return at the end of 2014. No major changes are currently planned. Of course, we are dealing with general tax fraud and the possible exploitation of competitive advantages. In the future, we would like to introduce, for example, an electronic delivery note relating to the transport of fuel from point A to point B to the excise warehouse, out of the excise warehouse, etc. But we are analysing all the measures that can be taken to reduce VAT fraud, including reverse charge. This is certainly important both in the context of your question and in the light of the country's wider policy. The second question: 'The Estonian Taxpayers' Association has recommended extending the use of reverse charge to limit tax fraud. How do you feel about extending the use of reverse charge? ' Reverse charge is one measure to reduce tax fraud. The negative side of the reverse charge is that if you set a turnaround for a good or service, fraudsters usually move to another sector. Thus, the introduction of a reverse charge in one area will lead to an increase in fraud in another. Reverse charge is an exception to the general rule, which may also increase the administrative burden. At the same time, reverse charge is necessary in an area where there is a high number of tax fraud and all other possibilities to ensure a level playing field for economic operators have been exhausted. In order for reverse charge to work, the object of reverse charge must be unambiguously identifiable. Personally, I have a positive rather than negative view of reverse charge. We are now considering extending the reverse charge to metal products used in construction. The third question: 'Finland has very successfully used reverse charge in the construction services sector. In your opinion, could Estonia also consider the use of reverse charge for the taxation of construction services? If not, how does the government intend to reduce VAT fraud? In the coming months, the Tax and Customs Board will analyse tax compliance in the construction sector, including the impact of the obligation to submit an annex to the VAT return. If the analysis shows that the situation has not improved significantly, other measures to increase tax compliance, including the introduction of a reverse charge for construction services, will be analysed. Question 4: 'The current VAT Directive clearly limits the areas where reverse charge is permitted. Do you consider that the VAT Directive should extend the use of reverse charge and what are the current views on this issue in Europe? ' In 2013, the list of goods and services to which a Member State may apply the reverse charge procedure was extended. Mobile phones, computers, cereals, raw metals and semi-finished metals were added to the list. If a Member State wishes to apply the reverse charge procedure to any goods or services not included in that list, it shall be entitled to request such authorisation from the Council of the European Union. Therefore, there is no immediate need to renew this list. The European Commission has promised to come up with an action plan on VAT in 2016 on various ways to make the VAT system more fraud-proof. The European Commission has promised that reverse charge will also be thoroughly analysed in this document. The views of the EU countries on reverse charge are different. There are Member States that strongly believe in this measure, and there are countries that consider it only a short-term solution, with the effect of fraud moving to other sectors and not actually disappearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U159	Minister, thank you. You have at least one question. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to ask whether one of the reasons why we have so little use of reverse charge may be that in other countries, the declaration of operations and transactions takes place differently. We can understand it differently, or it just doesn't match our perceptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U161	I do not dare to point out here one or the other particular reason why some countries are more pessimistic and some more optimistic on the issue of possible reverse charge. There may be different reasons. The VAT Directive seeks to give such a more uniform approach to different tax rates and also to how one tax measure should operate. But I say once again that, like the questioners, it seems to me that we have reason to look deeper into reverse charge as a potential measure to combat VAT fraud. As I said in one reply, we are now reviewing the regulation on metal products. We have received a number of signals from companies operating in this sector, who have found it difficult to compete on the market. And it is difficult to compete in the market if it is shown that some of the products on sale are not subject to VAT anywhere. Otherwise, it would not be possible to sell at such prices from the dashboard to other specific metal products. The analysis is currently underway, and I do not exclude that at some point we will come with a proposal to implement reverse charge in this sector as well. I would rather be positive about these future steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U162	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No requests, no negotiations. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-25_U163	Good fellows! And now it is, you could say, maybe the most anticipated moment of this day. I ask everyone who has a wish to register for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit! Good fellows, since I can't see the people I want, thank you! The sitting is adjourned. I wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 19.07 a.m.
