ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 10th working week Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. That's not what you want. Then we'll do a presence check. Here you go! There are currently 78 parliamentarians present in this House, no 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law 262 amending the obligation to leave and the ban on entry initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Would you like to open negotiations? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 262. Let's get to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the obligation to leave and the law on refusal of entry initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs 262. Please take a stand and vote. The bill was voted for by 90 members of the public, with no opposition or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. The first item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U3	Today's second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Mälberg, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair, for the presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The draft law amending the Water Act 316 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 17 October. The first reading took place on 9 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 23 November. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. The Committee on the Environment, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Environment and the Estonian Beef Farmers' Association, decided to make four amendments to the draft. During the period between the first reading and the second reading of the draft proposal, the draft has been dealt with twice at the Commission's meeting: 22 November and 5 December inclusive. Representatives of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, the Estonian Agricultural Chamber, the Estonian Beef Farmers' Association, the Estonian Nature Foundation and the Ministry of the Environment participated and expressed their views in the meeting on 22 November. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Environment and the Health Board took part in the meeting on 5 December. The amendments were also discussed in substance at this meeting. Let me introduce some of the amendments. Predictably, apart from the discussion of each amendment, the committee voted and decided to take full account of all the proposals by consensus. The content of the first amendment is summarised by the fact that, if, under the current Water Act, a drinking water operator draws up a drinking water control plan for three years, it will be required to update and coordinate it with the Health Board every five years. The second amendment was due to the need to resolve the issue raised by livestock farmers on the composting of free-range manure. The addition regulates the measures for the protection of the aquatic environment associated with manure composting. Enforcement allows keepers to compost manure on cultivated land for up to 24 months under the conditions laid down by law and keep it acquitted. Amendment 3. According to the current Water Act, the sanitary area of the surface water cover must be at least 90 metres away from the water body border. However, as the waterline may change over the years, the scope of the sanitary protection area will also shift. It is therefore reasonable to provide for a distinction in law that the sanitary area of surface water can be less than 90 metres if the historic sanitary area border is closer than 90 metres to the normal waterline of the water body. Such a problem comes from life itself, as is known from Lake Ülemiste. Namely, in the work of AS Maves in the years 2007 to 2009, the "Steel Protection Area Project for the Water Grave of Lake Ülemiste" mentioned the historically established border of the sanitary protection area, which is at times closer than 90 metres to Lake Ülemiste and where strict compliance with the Water Law requirements of the sanitary protection area is prevented for objective reasons. Tartu road and some properties are part of its 90 meters. The fourth amendment deletes subsection 3 (1) from the draft as the date of entry into force of the withdrawal periods set out in that paragraph on 1 January 2007 is no longer appropriate. The Commission took the following procedural decisions, including at its meeting on 22 November: to propose a second reading of the draft 316 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 8 December 2016; to propose a second reading of the draft 316; to propose a third reading of the draft 316 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 13 December 2016; to propose a final vote on the draft 316. All these decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U5	Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U6	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This week we also had an air protection law in the process, which I asked the Commission's representative whether such a title sounds a little strange, it is something like an air protection law. He showed me the whole thing that I'm talking about some weird thing. If you rely on it, isn't the title of this law too prosta for you? You could say the law on the protection of hydrospheric water, or how it was, the law on hydrospheric water.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U7	Thank you. I think that the title of this law reflects very well the substance of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U8	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This law obliges all those who have enough land, between 50 and 100 hectares and over, to draw up a fertilisation plan, a fertilisation plan. At present, less than half of the farmers do so. I'm just asking if this law will certainly ensure that farmers make this plan. Who's monitoring these plans? I'm sure it's been mentioned in the committee, but if it isn't, I'll read the explanatory statement in more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U10	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U11	Thank you. As we all know, no law in itself guarantees anything. Then life would be very easy if only the law did the whole of life. Our farmers are increasingly aware of the need to do these things. The Environmental Inspectorate should supervise this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U12	Good manager! Good waitress! In the spring, I remember, there was quite a lively discussion here about dung, the draft for spreading shit in rural language. This debate was postponed to autumn. I'm gonna ask you straight: how long did this stuff still stay? How long does this dung or shit in rural languages have to be honored before it can be spread?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U13	Thank you. We are talking about deep litter composting, and deep litter is defined as manure containing at least 25% dry matter. If it was previously allowed to be held in honor for eight months, it could now be there for 24 months, or two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-08_U14	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to open negotiations? That's not what you want. Then we will go to the examination of the amendments. As the rapporteur has already mentioned and analysed, there are four amendments. Let's go through them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and taken fully into account, both the second, the third and the fourth. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 316. Second reading is complete. Today we had two items on the agenda, they have been dealt with. Today's trial is over. Thank you for this work and for the strength of the day, because the work in the Riigikogu is not finished yet! Closure of the sitting at 10.13 a.m.
