ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the 4th plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Please, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U2	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present an inquiry on behalf of 18 members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. The question is about support for job creation in Ida-Virumaa, which was issued in March of this year when the government's departure meeting was held in Ida-Virumaa. At the press conference that followed, it was proudly advertised that in Ida-Virumaa a job creation grant can be applied for, paid to an entrepreneur who employs at least 20 people who have been unemployed in the region, and these people must have been unemployed for six months. The amount of the job creation allowance per calendar month shall be 50% of the employee's salary, but not more than twice the minimum wage. This year and next year, the number of participants in the job creation grant has been estimated to be 625 people. Today, businesses have been able to apply for job creation support for more than four months, but the results do not give cause for joy. At the beginning of August, only one non-profit organisation had received support. Businesses believe that the main obstacles are that at least 20 people should be employed at the same time and that all new workers must have been in the unemployment fund for at least six months. We have four questions about this for the Prime Minister. We are also waiting for an oral answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U3	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U4	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I remember we discussed this problem several times last winter, which arises in houses where some tenants cannot pay for heat. On this topic, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has the task of handing over a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic. All these conversations in this Chamber ended quite logically by the fact that, including at the meeting of the Government on 25 February, it was decided that the Minister of Enterprise would set up a working group to analyse the possibilities of dealing with the debts of housing associations and local authorities, which would propose amendments to solve the problem. Unfortunately, the task force has still not been able to find solutions. Given that there are more than a hundred houses in Estonia, where there is such a problem is not that there are only some such houses in Ida-Virumaa, but there are more than a hundred houses in Estonia, we are proposing a draft decision of the Riigikogu that we propose to the Government of the Republic to resolve a situation where some owners or holders do not bear the costs arising from the management of their co-ownership, the fact that the heat supply of persons who have performed their duties properly is not guaranteed in winter and the condition of their apartment property is deteriorating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U5	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U6	Good Chairman and ladies and gentlemen, good start of working week! On behalf of the seven members of the Free Party Group, I will refer an inquiry to the Minister of State Administration, Arto Aasa. The theme is Patarei Castle owned by Riigi Kinnisvara AS and its future. The Patarei fortress is part of the European construction heritage. It is a monument to the victims of communism and Nazism and a symbol of the resistance of the martyrs of the Republic of Estonia. There have been prisoners of our greats since Jaan Tõnisson and ending up with Jaan Kross. Protecting this heritage is the responsibility of the state, and the requirement to preserve the building is also a consequence of the Heritage Protection Act. In fact, for more than ten years, Riigi Kinnisvara AS has owned and maintained this area, but over the years this building has broken down, the roof runs through water that flows to the second floor. The situation is that no investors will be found anymore. The Kalaranna Patarei Foundation has been formed, including people who were in prison there, such as Lagle Parek. The problem is that there is no solution to how private capital, state, local government and non-profit organisations can work together to preserve this cultural heritage. That's why we want information from the minister. There has been a delegation from Europa Nostra in Estonia this week and last week. Europa Nostra is looking for funds for Europe's cultural heritage. We want to get feedback, which are national plans, because this is a unique heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U7	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U8	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, which the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U9	I have adopted two drafts and two questions on behalf of the Bureau. We will continue to deal with them in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! The assembly has 81 members of the Riigikogu, no 20. The Committee on Rural Affairs has proposed to delete the third item on the Wednesday agenda of this week, the first reading of the draft law amending the law implementing the European Union's common agricultural policy (CAP) 249. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the agenda for the second working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U10	We will go to today's inquiry by Dmitri Dmitriyev, Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Laul, Kersti Sarapuu, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Andrei Novikov, Tarmo Tamm, Rein Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Erki Savisaar, Anneli Ott, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassilyev, Peeter Ernits and Mailis Reps. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U11	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of June, 16 members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Health and Labour concerning insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases. As the subject is included in the agenda of the government coalition, we were very much hoping that the Government of the Republic would develop the Act on Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, i.e. the TALKS. THE most important objective is to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases. Estonia is one of the few countries in the European Union where there is no separate insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, which would motivate the employer to improve the working environment. The costs of accidents at work and occupational diseases are currently primarily borne by the State through a solidarity-based pension and health insurance system. According to official statistics, about 3000 accidents at work are recorded in Estonia per year, of which, unfortunately, 20 Occupational diseases are diagnosed around 70. If we look a little back in time, we will see that the 2007 National Audit Office's 'State action in reducing accidents at work' proposals also highlight the need to implement the TALKS. The 2010 ex-post audit notes that nothing has been done in this area. The intention to work out TRUE is probably not here at the moment. Since there has recently been a very critical debate on the financing of the health insurance fund, or the health care system, the current nature of TAKS has increased again. We therefore have a number of questions for the Minister. I hope he reads them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U12	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, thank you for asking me, as a Social Democrat, about this important issue. I fully agree with the respondents that the system needs to be changed because, in its present state of affairs, there are no important aspects of the system necessary to motivate employers, in particular, to prevent occupational diseases and accidents at work. On the other hand, as the heirs rightly pointed out, when an occupational disease or an accident at work is fixed, it is often the state that is covered by the costs. The concern is, in fact, even greater, because it is the weaker party in the employment relationship, the employee, who is badly protected against the risk of occupational disease and accidents at work. If health damage has occurred, you must apply to the courts for compensation. We know that access to justice is undoubtedly costly and takes a lot of time for the employee, especially the affected worker, and that many are giving up on it. Secondly, it is important that when an employee affected by an occupational disease or an accident at work goes to court with his claim, the company whose fault caused the damage has often ceased to exist. In that case, indeed, as you said, these costs will be borne by the State. I will answer your questions in a set because the questions relate more or less to the same thing: does the government intend to do anything and has he done anything? The answer to both questions is yes, he plans to do and he does. First, in 2015 a study was commissioned from the Centre for Policy Studies in Praxis, entitled "Employability Loss Compensation System in Estonia and International Comparison', where this topic was quite thoroughly addressed and similar bottlenecks were highlighted in the big picture. We have introduced this study to the social partners and stakeholders. The authors of the study propose to increase employers' responsibility for covering the costs of occupational diseases and accidents at work, including the need to create incentives to encourage employers to invest in a safer working environment. Although this study does not say anything directly, either directly or in the same way, about insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, the so-called TALKS, it does suggest a fundamental change in the treatment of this issue. The Government of the Republic has agreed that, apart from the 1st of July, a The first phase of the work capacity reform, which invests considerable money in helping people who have suffered and have already suffered health damage caused by work, will be launched with the aim of the so-called TVR2 (the second phase of the work capacity reform), which is specifically aimed at preventing health damage and trying to create a system in which employers are motivated to contribute financially to a secure working environment. It is not entirely true that the claim that no action or time limit will be found in a specific government action programme. Point 10.10 of the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic, which sets out an analysis of the sustainability of the worker's working capacity and proposals in terms of the second phase of the work capacity reform, is a key feature of the insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases. It is true that the deadline for implementing this action was June 2016, and it is also true that it is already September today, so the Government of the Republic is late here. I apologise to the honourable legislators for this, but since the implementation of the first phase of the work capacity reform has taken considerable time resources from the employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Social Insurance Board and the unemployment fund, these proposals have been delayed in the next phase. I can tell you that the new deadline within the Ministry of Social Affairs is the end of September. So I can say that in the coming months, in terms of proposals, the Government of the Republic will arrive at the table. Hopefully, we can then start discussing this system further in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U14	Questions for the Minister. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It was very good to hear that this issue would finally reach this hall. We usually deal with the elimination of consequences, which often cost more than we put more emphasis on prevention, for example, which is usually a higher benefit for society in the end. The same applies to our health care system. Has there been any analysis of how much money could be saved by the Health Insurance Fund or the health care system, how much could society benefit from it? Is this analysis done or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U16	This analysis, to which I referred and which has been made by Praxis, is very long. I'll tell you from memory, it's about 300 pages. Both the bottlenecks of the Estonian system and the comparisons with other countries have been observed there. In total, Estonia has been compared with seven countries: Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Latvia, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany. The general attitude of both researchers and our own people's analysis has always been that, of course, when it is possible to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases, it will be cheaper for the state and the system, and certainly the most sensible of people's views. On the other hand, it is clear that insurance means that employers have to channel financial resources there in order to secure workers against this risk. This is, of course, an additional cost for employers. However, this is certainly not the reason why we should not do so, because apart from the fact that the system of insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases is not employee-friendly, it also denies fair competition. We have a large number of employers who work hard to ensure safety at work in their companies and invest significantly in financial resources to make the working environment safer, who care about the health of their workers, offering them the services they need. At the same time, however, there are also companies where very little attention is paid to these issues. Let us see how companies behave in cases where damage to an accident at work or to an occupational disease has materialised. When the case comes to court and the company closes its existence, i.e. it is closed, it is clear that the sense of social responsibility is, unfortunately, limited in such cases. Rather, we see that in some cases the lack of investment in the safety and safety of their workers and in maintaining their health has also been seen as a short-term competitive advantage, perhaps it has been found that it can save costs. There have been no common standards, no such good, employee-friendly standards, and that is why this issue needs public intervention and a common solution. At the technical level, there are many questions, such as how to distinguish between employers who have already invested in their employees and employers who have not done so at all, in terms of the level of payment. There have been thoughts that their payment rates, who contribute more themselves, could be lower, it would be a motivating factor. But it's pretty complicated in organizational terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U17	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U18	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Clearly, one thing is the reform of working capacity and the other is the insurance of accidents at work and occupational diseases. I'm sure you've experienced, too, since you've been seeing people, that the worst thing is to meet professionals. Their resentment for the country is very, very great. The problem has been up for at least 20 years. I'm sure you've been seeing these people, too. I'm asking you what you've told them and how you've calmed them down. When could this really be solved? We believe in you. Maybe this time it's really gonna work out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U19	Thank you. As I said, we hope with proposals to reach the government in October. This also requires negotiation with the social partners. As I said, if we want to do this in a classic sense, it means re-emphasising certain financial burdens and risks, which I believe is justified, but it is undoubtedly not in everyone's liking. However, we are going ahead with this and in the coming months there will be concrete proposals both on the public table and, hopefully, as a result of the government's decisions, they will also arrive here at the Riigikogu. Once again, I will answer the previous question. This same Praxis study has pointed out that prevention is indeed cheaper and more reasonable than dealing with the consequences, but on the other hand it is clear that there are limits to prevention. For example, the Praxis analysis in Finland points out that optimistic estimates can prevent up to 10% of accidents at work. Even if 10% can be prevented, it is good, but accidents at work must nevertheless be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U20	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U21	Thank you. The work capacity reform will finally start next year, but even here you have talked a lot about the responsibility of the employer when talking about TVR2, which is intended to prevent and tackle accidents at work and occupational diseases. However, when we go to see companies, we see that employers have invested a great deal in preventive aids, but they are not used. Hence the question: how much attention has this analysis and prevention of occupational diseases paid to the responsibility and motivation of the employee?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U22	Yes, this is certainly an important issue. It is true that not always the problem is not just the employer, but often also the employee. Well, we still have some time to go, so that the general understanding of the occupational safety of work collectives is such that basic things, such as the use of protective equipment, should not be imposed by the employer, but become an essential part of the company's working culture. However, the situation in companies has improved, at least so much the people of the Labour Inspectorate have dared to say, but of course it is still far from ideal. The main role here is precisely that of the Labour Inspectorate, which is primarily seen as a punitive body, who attends and supervises and then imposes a penalty payment, but whose real role in the area of safety and health protection should, and to a large extent, be helpful. In any case, I do think that the Labour Inspectorate could have more both power and resources to do the necessary work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U23	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U24	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The question is analogous to the previous question, but I will ask you anyway. It has been observed in quite a number of places that when a labour inspector arrives, he behaves very bureaucraticly. He writes that it and it have been purchased, but often it remains unchecked whether the instrument that has been acquired for safety at work is being used correctly or whether it is being used at all. Hence a similar question to the previous question: have you discussed this and have you been aware of this problem at all? Rather, perhaps more resources should be available at the level of training, so that people can be explained how to use one or the other instrument. I have another question, too. If there are electoral periods, there are a number of ideas on how to promote healthy lifestyles and how entrepreneurs can be supported in this matter. Has the current government been discussing similar issues to motivate employers to give more support to workers' healthy lifestyles?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U25	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U26	Thank you. It is clear that the Labour Inspectorate primarily checks the compliance of the situation with the legislation. That is indeed bureaucratic. I haven't been to any of the inspections myself, but maybe it's formal in some cases. Of course, more emphasis should be placed on training, which is actually quite a lot of emphasis. During the last period of EU Structural Funds, the Labour Inspectorate did so quite diligently. For example, we have started to reward companies that have invested most in the health and safety of their workers every year. Speaking more broadly, I also often feel that if there is no law being followed, control should be stepped up. But state control has such a distributed system, as is the Estonian labour market, where there are many small employers, there are limits. I'm borrowing a parallel here from the IRS, which Director-General Marek Helm once told me he's been trying to change the attitude of his employees. When tax officials have said that their legal duty is to collect taxes, he has told them that they have completely misunderstood their task, because people pay our taxes voluntarily. 90% of the taxes collected by the tax authorities are not beaten by the tax authorities or by the law, but are paid voluntarily. A little bit of the same with the Labour Inspectorate. If we get more than 50 inspectors who go more in companies to see if the conditions for safety at work are met, that is certainly not a bad thing. This could be done, but the real change is still due to the working culture of the collective. Internally, it must be achieved that safety at work and the health of workers are a common thing that no one else should impose with force, but that is something that we do ourselves. I am glad that more and more Estonian employers think that way, but as I said, there is still a way to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U27	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U28	Good manager! Good minister! I'm asking for education. It turns out that every one hundred accidents at work will end in death. How is it in the broader picture? How many accidents at work do we actually have, and has anything changed here compared to Soviet times?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U29	Thank you. To answer this question, as I have to admit that I am not an encyclopedia, I recommend reading the Labour Inspectorate's website, where there are very comprehensive annual reports of accidents at work in Estonia, both in number and by type, severity, sectors and characteristics of employees. It's a pretty good and accurate picture. It's not a happy situation. There are still quite a number of fatal accidents that we cannot be happy about. In addition, there are a number of accidents at work resulting in permanent incapacity for work or reduced capacity for work. I'm sure that doesn't honor us. Of course, if you look at these statistics, you must bear in mind that the members of the Riigikogu know that this also applies in other areas, for example, in the case of violence against women, that if more cases are registered, this does not always mean that the situation has deteriorated, but may mean that more cases have been reported. Fortunately, this trend has been noticed in the case of accidents at work, that indeed more accidents at work reach the so-called national supervisory body, we know more about them. But, unfortunately, the most serious accidents at work are still not noted anywhere and, as a result, our knowledge of what is happening in one sector or another is certainly not complete. So if you look at the trend of 25 years, you can say that the situation in Estonia has improved in terms of safety at work, but not enough. We can say that more accidents at work have been registered, but especially when we are talking about serious accidents at work, including fatal accidents at work, it is clear that there is still work to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U30	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U31	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I am pleased that you are positively tuned and allow us to move on to this issue. I hope that you will also get the social partners to agree. But what is the position of your coalition partners on this matter? Have you discussed this in the coalition, and what do you think the Reform Party will say?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U32	Thank you. When concrete proposals come, we will discuss them with both the social partners and the coalition partners. The Government's joint agreement is set out in paragraph 10.10 of the Government's Action Programme, which states that this issue will be analysed and concrete proposals will be made. The point is that we should work harder to reduce the damage to health caused by work. It is, of course, obvious to everyone that prevention is better for both man and the system than combating the consequences. But there is no debate about the details of the proposals, not least because this is a difficult issue. The complexity of the issue is also one of the reasons why a number of governments have not already addressed it to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U33	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Point 10.10. of the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic has already been referred to several times. It states that private insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases will be provided. This means that there was a relatively strong understanding of what this should look like when the action programme was drawn up. Has Estonia ratified today the part of the European Social Security Code concerning insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases? There, however, is a very strong view that the obligation to pay should remain only for employers and not for employees. But, of course, employers have a slightly different view. How do we feel about this and how sure is it that we have private insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U35	Thank you. Firstly, it is true that Estonia has not ratified part of the European Social Security Code, Part VI of that Code. The rates of benefits that apply in Estonia, I mean disability pension, disability allowance and survivor's pension, are above the minimum required by the code, but we have a slightly different health care organisation for dental care, care care, medicine, etc. Since the organization of our system today is a little different, we have not joined this part of the code. As regards the form of insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, there are roughly two options. It is possible to do it in the same way as a motor insurance fund as a private insurance and it is possible to do it as a public insurance, the closest of which is probably the unemployment insurance system. They both have their pros and cons. Indeed, the programme of action of the Government of the Republic states that private insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases is an integral part of this. Given the insurance market in Estonia, I dare not say with certainty today that a private system would be the most sensible one. But both options are analysed and proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs as a result of this analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U36	Thank you, Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U37	And now and now, a free microphone! Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U38	Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, we were pretty shaken up. As said by the Minister for Social Protection, the Minister who has been called upon to create better social security for people, said that young people today must work until they die and have a pension as their dream. You can't just take it any other way. At the same time, the Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski, who had said that more money was needed for health care overnight, changed his opinion and said that there was still a great deal of savings in health care, such as on preferential medications, extending medical queues, restricting hospital overwork and increasing the cost of bed and visit fees. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Aivar Kokk, also agreed. I would remind you that we are currently at the top of the rankings in Europe because we are putting the least money in health care. Recently, by the way, perhaps you have heard, the new Polish government has launched a draft to reduce the retirement age. I don't know if this is gonna work, but at least that's the idea. So what does that really mean for 70 years? This means that for 10 to 12 years, a person will be on the hunger lodge with a small unemployment grant. We could say that the average life expectancy is increasing. It is increasing, though not as much as it is in the developed European countries. But we are not talking about it, and the ministers do not want to talk about the constant decline in the number of healthy years. Since 2009, it has fallen to 2.1 for women and 1.9 for men. That's the tendency. Our people are sick, they have chronic diseases. What it's about, you can guess. This is because people cannot get to a doctor, because the first days of illness are no longer paid out, and there are many other reasons. Although we now have a retirement age of 63 and it rises to 65, people actually retire at 59 years of age. I can't imagine what's gonna happen if the retirement age rises to 70 years. Where can these jobs come from, or how can a person who has already reached the age of almost stagnation hold a full job? Where does he get this job? A policeman, a builder or a fireman can't work at such a full-time job, but there are no so-called poles. After all, we don't even have a half of low pay, and I don't think there's gonna be that many of them in the future. So, where were all those old days spent by the banks under the palm trees? I remember the last time the retirement age was raised, Andrus Ansip pretended he didn't know anything about it. Right now, Taavi Clothes hasn't exactly heard of it, either, that maybe, yeah, should lift a little bit, but he doesn't know anything. You're asking where to get the money. There really is a million solutions. First of all, do we have to fatten Europe's private banks? Do we have to contribute to Greece? But Estonian Air, the Port of Tallinn, ferrying, Eesti Energia, Nordica, all those hundreds of millions dropped in the air! And why do our young families still leave, have we analyzed it? In fact, that is one of the main reasons why we do not have enough money for anything. But that's not what we're talking about. Ministers say these people are going to look for happiness. Why is our tax system taboo? Why are we putting pension money in foreign funds? For some reason we do not want to talk about the economy at all; we do not want to talk about the development of industry. These are actually key questions. We need ministers who are specialists. As you will remember, there were no child figures in the Savisaar or Cancer government, who are today minister of one field, and tomorrow there was another minister, etc. If we look at what is actually being dealt with today, it is clear that basically we are redistributing poverty and the government is simply dealing with keeping itself in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U39	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U40	I'm starting with my experience last night. Yesterday, I was once again convinced that the ministries and agencies of our current government were unable to lead this country. The story I'm gonna start with is pretty prosthetic. It was about 3:00 a.m. about 6:00 last night. I drove from my constituency from Võru, Valga and Põlva County to Tallinn. Where after the city of Tartu there was a bridge over the Emajõgi River, the cars were standing, people came out of the cars, the villagers were on the street, and everyone looked at whether a car accident or a natural disaster had happened. My car stopped somewhere where there's a Hollywood cafe and a parking lot, where it's right for several miles to the bridge of the Emajõgi River. I drove to that bridge for a little less than an hour, over three-quarters of an hour. I got on that bridge, and what did you find out? Imagine the clarity! Turns out our Road Administration was repairing that bridge, no work on Sunday, I don't know if the workers were out on Saturday or not. One lane on the bridge was open and the other was closed, and an automatic light was placed on this open track, which first ran cars on one side and then on the other. Since very few cars came from Tallinn, this green light was empty. We put an automatic light on one of the main highways and created several-mile queues there, as Delfi wrote today. Tell me, please, how can the leadership of such an authority continue to work? I don't know if the government was discussing this today. I do not know whether our government has discussed that Estonian Air caused nearly EUR 80 million in damage to our country. I haven't heard the name of anyone who would have been charged with this loss. Now I hear that the new famous airline Nordica works according to the same scheme as Estonian Air and already has a loss. But we're again being poetry that in five years, this company might make a profit. Let's see what's happened with the ferry. There has been some kind of screw-up, some absolutely failed management affair that has demanded a lot of money from our country. Four lemons or four million euros have created anecdotes among the people. Let's look at our National Museum, which is built under Tartu. We can't even arrange a kitchen supply to bring spoons and knives to the table. I ask here about the speech chair of the Riigikogu: where are we, dear people, going? If we can't handle these things, how can we run the country? Today, I read that President Ilves is concerned about how to educate refugees. Well, that's great. Of course, you're gonna have to educate those black people who haven't been educated. But how much money have we put on our education? What's going on in our medicine? We're reading in our big daily newspapers today that a person is undergoing surgery of a blood vessel, but the other one next to the vein is just as dangerous. He'll be sent back home because there's no money to operate another blood vessel, but that means a certain heart attack for this person in the next year. This is our medical care, and this is our Republic of Estonia in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, who are sitting in this Chamber, and those people who are watching our sitting via the Internet or television, let us think about what is happening. It seems absolutely incomprehensible how you can run a country like this. But it turns out it can. Some statesmen optimisticly say that they are fine and that everything will be fine. The Minister of Finance says everything's fine in medicine. We just heard Ossinovsky perform. Well, I didn't hear anything bad. Everything's gonna be fine. Not to mention Javier's garment. We give immigrants good education for the state, for public money, but the Prime Minister puts his child in private school because he does not trust in public education. Dear people, I think we are at the threshold of a real dead end and a major crisis is coming to Estonia. That's what I'm getting at. With this kind of leadership, we can't go much further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U41	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U42	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, in the Committee on Culture, we were very happy to listen to the new Minister for Education and Science. He pointed out three directions that are planned in the near future: the Higher Education Act, the allocation of funds for youth activities and the Education Act. Youth money is made up of three parts: culture, sport and technology. There's no tongue bath anywhere. The Education Act does not mention the support services that the state took away from local authorities in the sense that it took away its money and placed funding obligations on local authorities. On my question of how the Minister will ensure equal treatment for the various funding structures, the Minister remained inconclusive. He said that basic funding must be guaranteed, but the owner must be given the opportunity to put more money where he wants to put it. I mean, the country compared itself to the village of Kapa-Kohila. We'll take state secondary schools. The state as owner can pay more, but Kapa-Kohila can't pay more. Kapa-Kohila has to, I don't mean to offend, I'm sorry, Kapa-Kohila! just shut down the classes and stop providing support services because he doesn't have enough money. But equal treatment is guaranteed. The state is a good host, but the local government is a poor host because it cannot pay off the services. Bullshit! The Centre Party Group has been trying for quite some time to bring the subject of support services to the agenda. Instead, the funding of youth recreational activities is needed to get street kids off the street and make them do culture, science, sports. It's all right. But why are they going down that street? Because there are no support services at school. There are no psychologists, logos, etc. in school. There aren't any! There are children with special educational needs who should be one in one study: one teacher and one child in one class. Can they be dealt with? No, and now this kid's going out on the street doing tricks. But the country thinks that if he's run out of school, dropped out of seventh grade, but now that he's on the street offering him sports, culture, science, he's gonna get into it. I won't! He doesn't have the habit of dealing with it! He's not gonna get involved! He doesn't have the habit of knowing the clock, he doesn't have the sense of duty, and so on. Yeah, just like that, it's okay to ring the ball, until it's time to start trying. Learning is a very hard job, sport is a very hard job, performance sport is a very hard job. That's not how you do it over your belly button. We're coming back to the support services. As time goes on, the sooner our students will need them. Already in the pre-primary group of kindergartens, for children aged five or even before, support services must be available. At school, all the more. Support services are needed already in the first, second and third grades, where nothing like this was required in the past. But for now, that's what we need. Please come back to school! Please restore the possibility that local governments can also pay for support services from teachers' salaries or bounty! Let's start there! When I asked if the Education Act provided for such a thing as not to be numerically evaluated, still: 'Juku, sit down in five!' Mari, sit down, four! March, sit down three! ', but could appreciate the shift and do it officially and legally, then nothing was answered. But the shift is what costs. It is very easy to keep a five-year-old student in a five-year-old, and it is not easy to make a two-year-old into a three-year-old, but it is much harder to make a two-year-old one into a three-year-old. So please, new Minister of Education, we're all yours, our know-how is yours, use us and we work for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U43	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U44	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Cute listeners! The news that there's money missing at the Health Insurance Fund is no one's news. As early as 2009, Hannes Danilov, then head of the Health Insurance Fund, announced that 1 billion kroons were missing, i.e. nearly 70 million euros. Since then, some part of this hole has appeared from time to time. It's like a sock with holes, that once the heel is naked, once the toes are naked. They're trying to rethink these things, but there's still a hole, and the high state representatives are going around looking for extra money where there is no money, and they're leaving no matter where the money is. I mean, alcohol duty. What are excise duties? The idea of fuel or electricity excise is to make up for either non-renewable resources or public contributions. It can be driven by random sawdust, there is no unrecoverable resource, and there is no complaining about the lack of revenue from the producer. But the idea of excise duty on alcohol and excise duty on tobacco, as has been repeatedly confirmed from this panel of the Riigikogu, is that smokers and alcohol consumers themselves pay for the losses they cause to society in breach of their health. After all, the benefits would also be for those who do not consume alcohol or tobacco, because from infants to the dead, everyone has a legitimate expectation that the alcoholic himself will pay for his treatment. The person who buys the first bottle of the day is sober and in his right mind, and he also realizes that he pays for his own health care costs. But it's not like that. In fact, if a decent, sober and abstinent citizen accidentally bends his knee and wants help, he cannot get it, he must wait in line, as doctors are patching up the steering drunks he has been picking up on the highway. In this way, everyone's legitimate expectations remain unfulfilled. This term, 'justified expectations', could be served by the Chancellor of Justice and his office, because alcoholics and smokers, as well as the most abstinent citizens, have tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of others, with a total of one million three hundred thousand people in total, is justified by the expectation that the alcohol excise duty paid by a particular target group will go into the health care system. That's where it should go. If it does not go there, it means that everyone, including the Chancellor of Justice himself, will be deprived of what is rightly expected. The Chancellor of Justice should, in my opinion, make sure that the expectations of the people are met and that things happen as they must in the rule of law. To that end, may the dear God give the Chancellor of Justice health, long life and common sense! Cheers! Oh, I just wanted to say thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U45	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U46	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Colleagues! Yeah, prose! Dear Helmen Kütt, the only coalition ambassador who considers it necessary to be in this Chamber! I'm talking about my morning. On 4 October, the Supreme Court will consider 22 applications by local governments to declare the Administrative Reform Act unconstitutional. This morning our commission had to start discussing what we would respond to the Supreme Court. At 0.15 p.m., our esteemed advisor's opinion arrived in my mailbox, which should then be sent to the President of the Supreme Court with the signature of the Honorable President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor. I stress, at 0.15 a.m. The application for Juru Vallavolikogu is 44 pages thick, the application for 20 parishes is 54 pages thick. And now at 0.15, the councillor's opinion arrived, which should go out on behalf of the Riigikogu, what do we think about whether or not there is a contradiction with the Constitution. At six o'clock in the morning, I had to drive to Tallinn. You can imagine how long I was able to get to know this in-depth opinion. It is strange that the Supreme Court sent us an application as early as September 1st, but today it is September 19. Okay. The advisor's answer, no wonder, was that everything was in the best order, there was no contradiction with the Constitution. How else could it be if we've cooked up the soup ourselves? In my opinion, both Article 3 of the Administrative Reform Act and Chapter 3 of the Administrative Reform Act are clearly contrary to §s 154 and 158 of the Constitution. The claim of five thousand people is dogmatic and does not necessarily guarantee the capacity of the municipality. World experience shows that the optimal size of a municipality does not exist. So there is no need or moderation of interference with legal subjectivity. Forced bonding is a very difficult slingshot and should have been tried with a lot of milder options before using it. For example, cooperation between municipalities, which is permitted by § 158 of the Constitution. The violent merger of municipalities, which leads to a dispersal of power and a blurring of the nature of local government, is not a moderate measure. Rape will be raped. My tongue is reluctant to call it a moderate approach to a woman. Oh, yes, the Juuru Council points out that this important law also violates the rules of procedure. The draft law on administrative reform had not drawn up a programme of development. But the intention to develop is the thing that the Minister of Justice Reinsalu always repeats to us here. Mr Laane, a good colleague, said that it is not a problem; it is only good government practice, not a duty. Thus, when the government came out with such an important draft, it spit on good practice. That's my conclusion. The ball is now in the hands of the Supreme Court. I hope that they too will see what I see and what many friends and acquaintances of my parish elders will see, opposition ambassadors in this Chamber, and what the honourable Professor Paul Varul will see, the former Minister of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-19_U47	Thank you. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Good night. Closure of the sitting at 4.02 p.m.
