ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 47 members of the Riigikogu are present. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Education and Science Maris Lauri and Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants will participate in the Question Hour. As a result of the fact that yesterday seven members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask a question in Question Time, I give the opportunity to submit two additional questions on the spot during the discussion of each topic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U2	The first questioner is Martin Repinski, and the question is for the Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. Please, Martin Repinski!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I have a question about the law amending the Water Act, which we are going to discuss today. You know very well that this has been changed several times and well discussed, particularly with farmers and organisations representing farmers. How do you feel about whether the current version is a positive or rather negative change for farmers and what feedback has come from farmers' organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U4	Thanks! Honourable people of Estonia! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! When Andres Kuusk took an interest in social media, which could be discussed in the Forum today, I offered myself and the environment issues to be included in the programme. But I'm reducing my performance on the evening, because I can now answer a number of environmental questions. The need to draw up this draft 316, which we will then be dealing with at first reading this afternoon, was due to the fact that the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against the water law that we have entered into force on fertilization, both the spreading of mineral fertilisers and manure and its time constraints. We agreed here in the Riigikogu, together, what these restrictions could be calendarly and what a transitional period could be, so that farmers could technically supply themselves and adapt their manure reservoirs. This, however, was not satisfactory to the European Commission. Then we were really forced to work with the Ministry of Rural Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Affairs, but we worked with them on the basis of this problem and with farmers to come up with a draft whereby the time limits for the application of mineral fertilisers and manure will start to apply earlier in the autumn. The information to be included in the farm book will also be specified and farmers will have to start drawing up a fertilisation plan. If you look out the window, you'll see that now is not the time to spread manure at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U5	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U6	Thank you! I remember very well how, when this law was discussed, not in the current version, but in the previous one, which had to be adopted very quickly, because, once again, Europe had a fixed deadline, it was promised that it would be amended again in the future. I want to ask whether there are any changes to the plan that have not yet been made and which are not reflected in this amendment law, or now that this law has been passed, everything is fine and nothing will change.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U7	Thanks for the question! The Water Act is known to be a law that has been dealt with 50+ times in the Riigikogu and changes made there have been different. They are either due to a domestic need, to our own water policy, or they have been linked to European Union law, since 2004. So I certainly cannot say that there will be no changes to the Water Act in the coming years. I won't allow it. However, as regards whether there is anything else that is not reflected in this bill 316, which is also lying in the shelves behind it, we are prepared to come up with amendments in the context of the procedure for this draft. They weren't just ripe by the time we prepared the first reading of the bill. This concerns Estonian farmers who are interested in composting manure in honours. We have such regulation both in the form of draft laws and in the form of explanatory notes. When these proposals are in favour of the committees, we will put them in place. Their idea is that if there is more than 25% dry matter in the manure, then it is deep litter manure that the world of manure is, by the way, very interesting, I went deeper into it today, according to this bill, it is possible to honor this manure for two years. Before that, of course, an analysis must be taken to determine how it has a dry matter content. I also looked at the prices on the Estonian laboratory market. The moisture content sample shall be in the order of EUR 10. But if you add more potassium, phosphorus and nitrogen, you'll have to pay about 80 euros and then you'll be able to honor it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U8	Martin Repinski, the second point to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U9	Thank you. It is, of course, very positive news that today we are getting deeper into the subject of manure. Of course, I understand that we will certainly be discussing this even if we are already going to discuss specifically the amendments or the amendment law. But I still want to ask you a question, because this information is very important to me, and I would like to know as soon as possible. Has the opinion of the agricultural organisations been asked about this particular change, and what did they think? Or did it make no sense because it is purely a precept from the European Commission that we must, in any case, comply with, whether farmers want it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U10	Okay. As regards the concerns of Estonian farmers and the honouring of manure, this is a problem raised by our Estonian farmers. I'm a country boy, I remember from childhood how hard it is to get manure out of a sheep's table. But since spring, discussions have been held with Estonian farmers, especially beef farmers, how to deal with this composting process. We have discussed this in the Riigikogu, both in the Committee on Rural Affairs and in the Committee on the Environment. We have had cooperation with the scientists of the University of Life Sciences, and also with representatives of the agricultural sector itself, to find the best regulation. That is why I dare say that there is an agreement and an understanding that farmers can act rationally on the one hand with manure and, on the other hand, that environmental protection requirements are also met. Speaking of this analysis, I suggest you take this more expensive option, where potassium, phosphorus, nitrogen and ammonia are analysed. They cannot be made as big as the pyramids of Egypt, can they be made just as large as the specific area that is in the surroundings actually needs manure. I assume there is no murmuring, nature can be preserved, and farmers can reasonably continue to manage. This is not what cattle and other animals are left behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U12	The next question is for the Minister of Education and Science, Maris Lauri. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U13	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! From another point of view, I would like to continue a pleasant conversation about the so-called 'Oki report' and its conclusions. What is the perspective of regional colleges in the Estonian educational landscape, the perspective of colleges outside Tallinn and Tartu? Will there be any consolidation in the near future, or will they continue in the form they currently exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U14	Thanks for asking. There are currently seven public regional colleges. I can tell you, there's definitely no plan to shut them down. All universities are bound by an administrative agreement to keep these colleges in a specific region. There will certainly also be control of this. So there's no connection pressure. What is happening, however, is that Rakvere College, which is in Tallinn University's so-called administration, will be merged into an educational institution located near Rakvere, which is a popularity known as the Mõdriku School, in order to strengthen the study base. So college will remain, and this university of applied sciences will simply be merged with him in order to make the study base stronger. This process has been initiated and the municipality agrees. I think Rakvere's gonna have a decent college with a wider profile as a result. There are no other things planned right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U15	Andres Ammas, please, the first detailing question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U16	In general, moving to a single person, I would like to ask you about Kuressaare College. Will it continue under its current name and in its present form or at some point will it continue as the Department of the Maritime Academy of TTÜ?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U17	Thank you! As I said, there are administrative agreements with universities on the basis of which they must support these colleges and ensure teaching at this regional level. As far as I know, there is no change in the plan, but the next administrative agreement has not yet been concluded with the university. There may be changes, but I don't know if they're there right now. But it's a matter of negotiation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U18	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! As far as we know, Kuressaare College is being transformed into a Marine Academy department. This has caused great concern among the residents of Kuressaare. This has also raised concerns in the sense that many feel that this plan is actually trying to abolish college, because the department quietly reduces the number of subjects, etc. From this, perhaps the broader question: what will become of the marine academy in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U20	Thanks for asking. I would point out once again that the administrative agreements with universities define the obligation for universities to offer higher education with specific characteristics in a given region. Yes, the contracts are being amended, they are being reviewed periodically. But as we know, there are two parties to the treaty. If anyone gets the idea of shutting down college, that's not how it works. Let's see what's been the point of the country in this matter. The idea of the State and the Ministry of Education and Research has so far been to ensure the provision of higher education in the region. So once again, there is no plan to shut down regional high schools right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U21	The members of the Riigikogu do not want to ask more about this topic. I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U22	The next question is for Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to the state budget next year shows that the state plans to buy some 400 hectares of land with conservation restrictions. But how has it been to pay old debts to the owners who are waiting for money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U24	Thanks for the question! The question of the constraints on the land under conservation and the role of the state in compensating has been the subject of more acute attention this autumn, for which I am, of course, very grateful as Minister for the Environment. However, as far as the state budget is concerned, for the next few years, EUR 3 million are planned each year for the purchase of land under nature conservation, it relates to the real transactions of the countries on the purchase list. This means that from this list of less than 200 land units it is possible to cover 40.45 units in transactions during the year. This is one way to get this list shorter. In order to give a bit of insight into what may be orders of magnitude and the state does not sluggishly and indiscriminately take up nature conservation, I say that those who sometimes read newspapers along with their hard work have also noticed that we recently won a trial in the Supreme Court for years. Landowners were of the opinion that they had such valuable land under nature conservation that the state would have to buy it from them in any case. The state was able, with the help of its legal advisers, to convince the Supreme Court that it was not nature conservation values. During this process, we managed to save 3 million euros on a few single properties for the Estonian state, which we can also use to shorten this order. So if there's more money, we'll get better results.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U25	Thank you. Raivo Põldaru, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Does the State also use the possibility of switching to shorten the queues? As I understand it, these queues will not be much shorter if the amount of money is what is currently foreseen, if, moreover, we want to acquire more land.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U27	Thanks! I recently visited the Riigikogu, both in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Committee on the Environment, to offer opportunities that could alleviate this situation. I can still say that the most universal instrument in politics is 'cash', that if instead of 3 million there were, for example, 50... I'm sorry! 50 million would be quite good, of course, but I meant that if we had 5 million, we would be able to acquire 80-sized properties. This would be the plant's design capacity, i.e. the Land Board could do this with the available resources, i.e. the workforce of existing people. But what else can we do? For example, one draft could be launched, which the Committee on the Environment is expected to do in the near future, which could suspend mortgage payments for those land units that are in the order of purchase. Such entities are currently known to have a way, which means that landowners do not need to go bankrupt because they do not have to pay mortgage payments as long as the land is acquired. As far as you're concerned, we're not planning any wide-ranging operation here. However, if the draft law on land management is discussed in the Riigikogu due to the possible construction of Rail Baltic (parts of one property may be on two sides of the railway), the problem of the land under nature conservation could also be solved in some places as part of this legislative amendment. For example, there is a neighborhood near Peipsi where you can plot dwellings for another place in Tudulinna rural municipality, and one small parish, which must be larger anyway, will have new residents.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U28	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U29	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Recently, we have heard the Chancellor of Justice's position here on this very issue of compensating land under nature conservation. There were many more points in his position as to how these countries could be compensated for in addition to the financial compensation. One was the so-called land change. Have you also discussed the other options recommended by the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U30	Thank you for your question. I guess this list can be a little taller. One area related to the pressure to sell or buy land under nature conservation depends on which side to look at it, is linked to subsidies. It is known that in Natura 2000 areas where there are strict restrictions, the rural development programme measures in the target zone will be supported by EUR 110 per hectare and EUR 60 per hectare in the restricted zone. We have a plan with the Ministry of Rural Affairs that a grant of EUR 110 per hectare could also be paid in private countries located outside the restricted target protection zone outside Natura. We hope that in 2017, we will get on with this. When the Chancellor of Justice proposed and referred to the so-called land exchange, he did not go very far with this proposal. I'll get some more stylings I can do. We will also prepare one of the LIFE calls for proposals for next autumn. The content of this project could be such that in the forests of Virumaa, which are protected areas of the flying squirrel, the project money could be used to buy land to the state on the one hand and to make corresponding cuttings so that the squirrel could perform one of its main functions, the reproductive function, going miles away to find a female. By the way, the first performance of the flying squirrel song is coming. The art people live in a flying squirrel, and I'm invited to this event.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U32	The next question is for the Minister of Education and Science, Maris Lauri. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The programme of the Ministry of Education and Research states that by 2020 it will be the norm that HEV1 children, or children whose special educational needs have been expressed in a weaker way, will study in mainstream schools. At the same time, funds have been allocated to regional centres for logo beet services and other support services, which are far from the school and, say, the person who needs the service, and at the same time are two to three times more expensive. But the service must be on site, i.e. at the school where action takes place. How did you think that? In order to ensure support services in schools, do you finance them nationally, or have these amounts still been raised out of the Treasury and imposed this obligation on the local government? But the municipality often doesn't get to wear it. How do you see the solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U34	Thanks for asking. Counselling services are very diverse and their provision has been organised in Estonia on several levels. The first level is when services are provided at school. There are specialized pedagogues, logopaedics, social pedagogues and school psychologists who are all on the spot. These specialists must be hired by the municipality. If it is too complicated, they can contact the Pathfinder Centre, which will help you find specialists. Last year there were support specialists at 534 schools, I would stress that 534 schools. The direct exposure was 24%, which perhaps appears to be a high percentage. Speaking of smaller schools, the question arises as to whether a specialist must be in every school. Often, this specialist can actually be hired on several schools, especially if the schools are smaller. A municipality, such as a city, can create such a team. The second level is the regional level. This means that if there is a need at school, you can invite specialists from the Pathfinder Centre who come to solve specific problems. There is also a third level, a national level, where advice activities are looked at more widely. This is a'management' level where certain decisions are made.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U35	March Sults, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Many thanks to the Minister for congratulating local authorities who have managed to cover 76% of the funding of support services. Levels two and three expect a specialist to be ordered, he'll never come, but there's a queue and a high price. But the situation that needs to be resolved is now and immediately. You read out three levels, that's basically triple-paying, triple-paying for the same thing. At the same time, you cannot pay this money at the same time to support schools in hiring support specialists. Yes, schools have put support specialists to work as, for example, speech teachers (in fact, logos), social pedagogues and special education teachers. The word 'teacher' is added because then these people can be paid from the teachers' payroll. Why would a school have to deal with such a thing if the state could simply solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U37	Thanks for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I will explain once more. A second-level centre is called a specialist if there is a particular need. For example, if there is a situation where a local school or district support specialist has taken advantage of his/her opportunities, but for some reason he/she has not been able to solve the problem, then people at a higher level are called upon to help. Or if there is no specialist on the ground, they'll be called from a different level. If there's an acute problem, they'll be there immediately. It is not the case that the acute problem awaits. The fact is, there are specialists, but there are few. Despite quite extensive preparation, specialists do not go into this position. The problem is that municipalities do not want to pay them enough fees, especially in Tallinn. These specialists have often studied at the Medical Faculty (I am talking about psychologists, for example), which means studying for ten years. It is clear that they do not work for too low a price. So I suggest that local governments think, especially in the Tallinn region, how to organise this matter. Tartu has organised this system very successfully. I suggest you learn from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U38	March Sults, second point, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You don't seem to have been very familiar with the studies on the quality of the trackfinder's work. Customers, i.e. students, parents and schools, are usually not satisfied with the relationship between the Pathfinder service and the price. I would also like to point out that Tallinn has solved this problem in one of the best ways among the municipalities and has provided additional funding for the provision of support services. So please don't point the finger at Tallinn! But now I'm going to ask you again how you're going to ensure that you do the quick, financial-covered activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U40	Thanks for asking. The trackfinder has received sufficient funding. As I said, there is a shortage of specialists, including the Pathfinder in the second-level, so-called regional centres. The centers just don't have as many specialists as they need. But if necessary, specialists will also be brought from a distance, so that the acute problems will certainly be resolved. Yes, we are not satisfied with a situation where there are not enough specialists everywhere, but let's just say that an ex-specialist at work doesn't have a price. If there is a private sector that offers private services to psychiatrists, for example, there is certainly a question of why they should come to the national or municipal system. This undoubtedly means that sufficient financial resources are needed. Like I said, there's a shortage of specialists in schools. I imagine that if there were no shortage in schools, these problems would not be so great in the Pathfinder centers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U41	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! You have already mentioned several times yourself that the most serious problem is that the support specialists simply do not go on. We have two centres of competence for educational sciences in the education system, one at Tallinn University and the other at the University of Tartu. Can and how can these centres of competence in educational science contribute to solving such a problem at all, or does it not fall within their competence? Could they be of use here in the sense of training these support specialists?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U43	Thanks for asking. I admit I don't know exactly what these centres are up to because I was planning on diving into HEV schools in a couple of weeks. It is simply because of the heavy workload that it is not possible to keep up to date with all things. As far as I understand, both all the specialists in the ministry who are in contact with this subject and the trainers working in the centres have a desire to solve this problem and find this support for young people. If there is a crisis situation, solutions will indeed be sought and found. The problem is perhaps really in everyday support and that teachers sometimes lack competence because they have not been in sufficient training or the situation has simply proved more difficult than what they can solve. If there is a real crisis situation, then there has always been help, no one has ever been left alone. I am absolutely convinced that all methods and techniques in these centres are still designed to ensure that this system is decent and operational. All those people who work there are doing everything they can.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U44	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U45	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! Last year, when your predecessor, Jürgen Ligi, spoke about the Centres of the Pathfinder, it turned out that their funding is currently supported by external assistance and it is not certain that these centres will continue with the support of the State after 2019. Minister Ligi expressed his hope that the strengthened municipalities might take over their livelihood. Is this position still valid in the ministry, as far as you know, or has there been any more wonderful prospects in the meantime, which would ensure longer funding for the Rajasher centres?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U46	Thanks for asking. I am aware of the problem that sustainability is not guaranteed. Like I said, in a couple of weeks, I would have picked up the subject on my desk. How exactly do I do that? The issue of exit from EU funds has a significant impact on the wider circle, on the different social sectors, as well as on the Pathfinder service. I think there must inevitably be cooperation between the state and local governments. In what relationship and how, this is the place of discussion and discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U47	I'm sorry about Aadu Black, but the question limit is full! I will conclude on this issue. Maybe there'll be time to ask at the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U48	The next question is for Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I'm not going to make a long introduction because we both know this problem. We have been discussing before about the violation of property rights in the case of nature conservation restrictions if people are not compensated for the restrictions imposed on their property. However, there has been an interesting development. First of all, I would ask you to explain how a situation has arisen that the problem has been unsolved for so long. Despite the legitimate expectation that people will receive compensation, it will take years before it comes. What is your specific attitude towards the Chancellor of Justice's proposal? The Free Party Group has also proposed a solution here. How are we going to tackle this problem better in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U50	Thanks! It'll take another 20 minutes for the environmental wave. I'm trying to start somewhere and talk about why we're where we are. I think these reasons could be roughly two. In different years, this funding has taken place in different volumes. This means that there have been better years and there have been fewer years. This has certainly led to disunity. That's one side of it. The other side is that when a few good years ago a magical solution such as land exchange was hoped for, which really allowed the land to be exchanged without restrictions for land, instead of the use of state money, it became abusing the scheme and it proved impossible to use it. That, in turn, slowed down. Those are the reasons. I am optimistic about the future, for two reasons. First of all, I hope that, by now, we are sufficiently aware of the need to acquire land under nature conservation, and all this in connection with the pitfalls. Second, land under nature conservation is not endless. The Riigikogu has also amended the Nature Conservation Act. According to this amendment, the obsolete protection rules should be replaced by new ones by 2023, and then the boom time should also be over. Looking at the country, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U51	Andres Herkel, please, the first detailing question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will go more specifically to this financial solution. If this problem is to be solved with state budget money, which is probably the inevitable path, what should these graphs be and how costly will it cost us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U53	Thanks! Unfortunately, it is not possible to say what the final cost of this whole process is. As we know, the existence of land under nature conservation, including land with strict restrictions, and the desire to sell them to the state, are not one-to-one-on-one. The reason is very simple: some people as great nature lovers just don't want it for any reason. Another reason is that in our country, at least in those forest areas where Natura nature conservation payments can be paid, it is possible to receive aid (as has already been said today) of EUR 110 per hectare in the target zone and EUR 60 per hectare in the restricted zone. As long as there are subsidies, people are certainly not interested in selling their land. If there is still some unfruitful, boggy piece, then never, even without the limitations of nature conservation, it would probably not be possible to earn such an annual income. I have also said what could be the best possible solution in financial terms. According to the Land Office, this would amount to EUR 5 million per year in the coming years. This would correspond to the capacity of the Land Administration, so there would be no need to hire extra power and no need to make any extraordinary effort to buy 80 plots of land per year. In that case, this problem would be completely manageable. But the money to buy land under nature conservation is certainly in competition with all the other wishes and needs that ministers have in the state budget. They have no lack of fantasy in this respect, but these wishes are certainly also due to the different points of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U54	Thank you. Andres Herkel, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I promise that the Free Party Group will come to your aid with the amendments to the state budget. We've noticed places where money shouldn't go. But maybe it should be a little more. However, since there has been a great deal of talk about the right and left sides here in recent days, you may well explain the type of policy that this barrage of ownership is in the form of when people over the years cannot be compensated or can not apply the option of redemption. Is this the manifestation of the right side or the left side? In case you conclude that going to property rights is still a manifestation of the left-wing side, has it begun with us during the rule of the right-wing or the left-wing government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U56	Okay. I am a great political interest and a political follower, but I am not sorry for myself! The moment in which the political situation or mentality began to acquire land under nature conservation or, I don't know, too slow to acquire. I owe you an answer. Interesting question. Let's try to figure this out somehow. As far as respect for property is concerned, it is certainly, in a very simple way, the question of the right-wing side, i.e. the view of ownership at all as such. I think that the policy so far has not been based on respect for property, but on what has been politically possible during different governments. If someone, like a young political scientist, did some sort of, I don't know, coursework, he'd see that ex-styles aren't taken from one side to the other. Thank you in advance if you make such a proposal. I understand that the members of the Free Party have also made inquiries to all ministries about how they want to use their money in 2017. Well, let's see where you come from. But when we get better, what can we have against it, we keep praising!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U57	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U58	The next question is also for Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants, but it is presented by Arno Bridge. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The question is first of all about these deadlines. Of course, it may make sense that if these things were to be postponed too long and reorganized until 2023, it would be too long. But do you not think that, at the moment, there is a little bit of urgency in setting these deadlines, because some things have to start to apply from next year? Such restructuring will require both additional costs and restructuring of the work from producers. Wouldn't it have been wise to set some longer deadlines with the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U60	Thanks! There is really nothing more to do this year, for snow is on the ground, and a reasonable farmer has already taken his instruments to the yard of the workshop. As for the period between 2023 and today, 2023 will also be coming soon. If we are based on the fact that agriculture was not started in Estonia in 2016, but was already hundreds, in order not to say thousands of years ago, in today's form it started recently, then I assume that most farmers have most of the resources available for day-to-day operations, which also concerns manure storage facilities. With regard to this deadline, as is the case with the whole bill, there are no questions left to me as far as I know. Both with the people of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and with the representatives of producers, this draft has been discussed and it has been achieved that the implementation of the draft as a law is appropriate and feasible. As Minister for the Environment, I can say that it will certainly also help the environment, especially with regard to groundwater.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U61	Please, Arno Bridge, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U62	Minister, thank you very much. The next question is on reporting. It has been mentioned here that nearly 1000 producers will have to undertake further reporting under this draft. It seems that, as usual, there will be an increase in bureaucracy when restructuring is being carried out. Is it not possible to combine this reporting with any other reporting so that the manufacturer does not have to do more paperwork?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U63	Thanks for the question! I think that we have now come so far in Estonia that we are no longer asking for additional data from businesses, including farms, simply because it would be nice to have some data, but trying to use the data that the country already has. In the course of the draft procedure, it was found that if the law was not implemented in the form that environmentalists necessarily wanted it, it should be compensated in some way and it was understood that proper accounting could also be the basis for the control of behaviour. I can say that there have been no comments on this accounts either. In the field of the environment, it is certainly one of the problems that what is declared and claimed and what is real may not come together on a daily basis. What concerns, for example, fertilisation and an overview of it is, in my opinion, even though, unfortunately, I am not an active farmer every day, because it is linked to money: it should be fertilized as much as plants require, but it should not be spent too much. So it's still in the farmer's best interest, and the farmer wants to drink clean water.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U64	Arno Bridge, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U65	Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you about the manure industry. When you answered the Repinski questions, you were already dealing with manure sites and dung saunas, but are there any changes to the rules for the construction of manure reservoirs? In my opinion, this is particularly the case for small producers, who often lack the financial capacity to build new, proper storage facilities and to bring production into line with all environmental requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U66	Thanks for the question! I'm improvising from memory, but I might be wrong, old man. In my opinion, with this planned composting change, we are not opening any regulation concerning manure storage and the use of manure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U67	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U68	Good President! Good minister! When the Water Act was last dealt with and amended for grazing by inland waterways, it was said that the role of honoring deep litter manure still needs to be reviewed. Now I understand that it is not being reviewed, however, and that strict requirements are still being imposed on small and medium-sized farms, where this deep litter manure is mainly used or generated in the livestock sector. Doesn't it seem to you that it is affecting a small and medium-sized agricultural enterprise? Depth manure is not considered to pose a risk to groundwater according to studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U69	Thanks! So today we have the composting and manure special, but this is also an important issue. It doesn't matter whether a small farmer or a large producer wants to salute deep litter manure. As far as accounting is concerned, it can be said that if deep litter manure is also generated in one undertaking, this is not included in the need to build a storage facility. The storage capacity should cover the rest. In the case of deep litter manure, there is an opportunity to salute. So I don't see any extra costs for small businesses here. If the manure still doesn't stand in the stack, it won't stand, and then we need a storage facility. It's elementary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U70	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U71	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! When I listened to this fine discussion, I remembered the wisdom of the people: one big drive of manure to the old god's cabbage garden is a lifetime. How do you comment on this wisdom as Minister of the Environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U72	Yeah, he sure is. What you're gonna take to the country in the summer is gonna have to help you keep your skin raw in the winter. So it's a voluminous activity that should keep people fed and happy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U73	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U74	The next question to Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants is asked by Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U75	Good President! Good minister! A decade ago, a hydroelectric power plant on Jägala River in Linnamäe was renovated. A very large amount of money was spent on this. This hydroelectric power plant started to operate and provides electricity to some 3,000 households. The Ministry of the Environment has a clear plan to stop this hydroelectric power plant in order to restore the so-called fish river and shut it down. Doesn't it seem to you that such a plan goes beyond the peasant's mind when at one point something is being renovated and, at the other moment, it is being tried to shut down for just as much or even more money, both of which are nature conservation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U76	Thanks! We can certainly discuss hydroelectricity as a matter of nature conservation in some of the next Question Time when life gives it a chance. But in this so-called Jägala story, it is regrettable that history offers activities in exactly the order it offers. Indeed, in the early 2000s, the idea arose of restoring the hydroelectric power plant on the Jägala River and starting to produce electricity there. Such European nature protection reached Estonia with its thoughts a few years later. What's it gonna cost in a hundred years? The one whose government has been in power, and how long, is nothing, but really costs the existence of biodiversity. Believe me. We don't see it, we're too old for it, but that's how it's gonna be. In this respect, opening up fishing routes on our rivers is certainly a good thing for the people of Estonia and for God. The best possible condition of any watercourse is a natural condition. If we look at the time now, I think this is the best possible time, because most of this investment has been earned and amortised today, and in the future electricity generation would need additional investments, which may not make sense. To understand the potential or importance of salmon rivers at all, let me just give an example. The Estonian quota for catching Baltic salmon does not exist in thousands of tonnes, but is in the order of magnitude of a thousand pieces.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U77	Thank you, Minister. The next question comes from Arthur Talvik, and then he can continue to answer. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U78	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister, it was good to hear your answer. But, as we know, there are two rivers in Estonia where hydropower is worthwhile and it makes sense to produce; these are the Narva and Jägala rivers. On the other hand, I very much agree that these swells, which have been built completely crazy during the consultative period, should be opened to fish. It's all a sensible thing to do. But it is very unreasonable on the River Jägala and precisely because of the large sums that have gone there. It must also be pointed out that the investments that a hydroelectric power plant in Linnamäe should make are primarily due to environmental protection requirements. Why do you still want to shut down the Linnamäe power plant with so much force, despite the fact that both local power and a large part of the local people do not want it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U79	Thanks! Indeed, the best option for local authorities would be to continue with the existing situation. For a very simple reason: the plants of the power plant belong to it and have been awarded to Eesti Energia on the basis of the contract of use. What could be nicer from the owner's point of view? We at the Ministry of the Environment are ready to take on the owner's functions. Surely we do not consider it possible to make it at all costs. The Ministry of Culture is also interested in this object, seeing its heritage conservation value. We are trying to find a solution, in cooperation with them, that is the best possible solution for fish and spawning potential, and that is also respectful of this respectable technical facility.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U80	Arthur Talvik, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U81	The situation is so irrational that it looks like there's some kind of money to be expected from Europe, but it doesn't know how to take advantage of it. I understand that the Ministry of the Environment, through the Minister's mouth, is also vigorously attacking the Ministry of Culture's plan to highlight this object as working, working under the protection of heritage. Once again, I wonder if we are still in a situation where heritage protection must start to ensure that nature conservation activities do not go beyond what is called a normal mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U82	Thanks! We act only according to the logic of common sense and the laws of nature. That's one. Secondly, I attended a meeting with the Minister of Culture last Thursday morning before the government meeting, where there was no logic of force. We have agreed that through the Heritage Board, the Ministry of Culture will provide us with the best possible partners for the development of technical solutions so that possible heritage is preserved and fish can swim. So there's no power, they're still acting in their minds.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U83	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Maris Lauri! Thank you, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U84	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 7th working week session of the 4th plenary session on Wednesday. Does anyone have a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? No one has a wish. Clarification of the agenda. In the debate on today's fifth item, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 317 will be presented at first reading by the Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. Second clarification: pursuant to § 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, I will supplement the agenda of today's Riigikogu with a written request from 41 members of the Riigikogu to express censure to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. The debate on the claim shall take place as a first item on the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu! I recall § 133 and 134 of the Rules of Procedure Act. On these grounds, as well as on the basis of the other sections of the Home and Working Procedures Act, I shall first give the floor to him at the request of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will give a speech on the remote which will last 5 + 3 minutes. The Prime Minister may then be asked questions. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the Prime Minister. The negotiations will then begin, during which the representatives of the political groups will speak. After the negotiations, the final vote will take place. Let us begin the debate on this item. Please, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas, speech! [[Interjections.]] Excuse me, Prime Minister, please go back! My bad. Incoming check, please! 91 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U85	Let us begin with the first item on the agenda. Prime Minister's speech, 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U86	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A little more than a year and a half ago, the Estonian Reform Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Union formulated the main problems facing Estonia, which we considered necessary and possible to solve. These were as follows: that Estonia would be even better protected, the economy would grow and the income of the Estonian people would increase, we would have more children, we would be more efficient in keeping the state and the Estonian Presidency would be a success story. During the 19 months in office, the government has launched an administrative reform, which was only discussed for 20 years. The lion's share of Estonian municipalities is at the end of the accession talks. The government has raised Estonia's national defence expenditure to the highest ever level, we are prepared for an unprecedented number of allied forces and we have undertaken to build a secure eastern border. The government has cut labour taxes and increased the confidence of the Estonian people by multiplying the support of the third child and creating support for pensioners living alone. The government has launched state reform, labour capacity reform and pension reform. The government has allocated money in the budget for Rail Baltic and the four-way Tallinn-Tartu highway and has agreed with Finland to build a gas pipeline between Estonia and Finland. The government has allocated crisis aid to farmers for tens of millions of euros. The government has increased the wages of teachers at an early pace and increased R &amp; D investment. The government has strictly respected the principles of a balanced budget. The government has prepared for a successful Presidency of the European Union at a speed of six months. It is difficult to find a government in Estonia's history that could have done more in a year and a half. Estonia has done well, there has been an increase in security and living standards, and for the first time in more than 16 years the population has increased. The criticism and mistrust of the Prime Minister and the entire government are part of the opposition's work. However, since coalition partners have lost their desire to continue with this government, the question arises 'Why? '. If this is due to a stagnation in the rating of one party or to the wish of the chairman of another party to gain a better position in the government, it may be understandable for those involved, but not for the people of Estonia. Good ambassadors! By expressing your mistrust to the Government of the Republic today, you will not so much vote against my person's work, but against the work done over the last year and a half, the members of the IRL, and also waged against their own previous decisions and against the ministers of their party. I read the censure text very carefully. Personally, I have been accused of something in just one place: my reaction and rhetoric have received reproach during the migration crisis. You can always argue about rhetoric, but the crisis itself has passed without fear of Estonia. All other reproach, however, is on the whole coalition, including the IRL and the Social Democrats. The decision to shift the tax burden on people's incomes to harmful consumption was taken together, and together we also decided on the implementation of administrative reform, the future direction of national defence and the opportunity for Members to participate in the work of local governments. Together, we also decided to appoint Juhan Parts as the representative of Estonia at the European Court of Auditors, in which I would continue to wish Juhan only the best. Good listeners! The day before yesterday, it was finally confirmed that the Social Democrats and the IRL have not been honest with the Reform Party or the Estonian public, and there have been secret talks for several weeks to form a new, left-wing government. After all, there have always been lovers of the left turn in Estonia, but for 17 years in a row governments have been holding the right course with the participation of the Reform Party, which has increased the well-being of the Estonian people. Since the left turn will now take place with the participation of the IRL, it is probably disappointing to both the voters of the IRL and the people of Estonia in general. It is quite clear that the IRL will have to make fundamental concessions in security, economic, citizenship and education policies in the future when it comes to a union with two political forces on the left. Left-wing economic policy will not bring the expected growth. On the contrary, higher taxes bite a large part of the income of every person in Estonia. The goal of helping young people with Russian native language to cope better in Estonian society is also under pressure from the government on the left. Both the Social Democrats and the Centre Party have questioned the continuation of education in Estonian at the upper secondary school level of Russian schools. Each of these concessions is part of the whole picture. Honourable Riigikogu! You have given me a mandate to lead the government twice, and you have the power to take it away. Today's vote is not so important to me as to Estonia's history. The government is not to be overthrown by SMS, it is democratic procedures. Let's save our country's dignity! I am prepared to respond to any criticism before you and to justify any decision. I know that it is difficult for you to ask these questions, because the real reason for today's vote is not linked to the work of the government. The government and the coalition in general have done their job well and effectively. Public officials, advisers and experts who helped us have been strong professionals. I thank everyone who has contributed to making Estonia an even better place to live! Good Estonian people! It has been a great honour to serve the Estonian people and the country as Prime Minister in two governments for 961 days. I've done this job with passion and commitment. I am deeply grateful to my fellow pioneers and proud of what has been done. I am truly proud of my country. Estonia is the best country in the world. Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U87	Questions for the Prime Minister. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U88	Mr Prime Minister! There have been ministers in your government with an honest eye and a sincere face. On Monday, when I asked if you trusted all the ministers, you said to 40 people, "Yes, I trust all my ministers. ' I still thought it'd be interesting how a couple of faces are definitely like the ones I wouldn't go into recon with if I didn't want to get shot in the back. But you said you trusted them all. Let me ask you, how could they lie with such a sincere face in a situation where my heart did say that the percentage of honest people is not 100?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U89	Thank you. I believe that this is also a question for the general public in Estonia. Until Monday morning, the presidents of the political parties of the government partners complained to the Reform Party about the actions that, we know, we have never done. Just a few hours later, it became clear that the principles of the creation of a new government had already been agreed, and the person of the Prime Minister had also been agreed, suggesting that the outlines had been in place for a long time. Today's and yesterday's news pointed out that, behind the backs of the Reform Party and the Estonian public, these talks have been secretly held for at least weeks, perhaps even longer. In retrospect, I have to admit that I was too good-faith. I wasn't ready to believe that when people say in my eyes that they want to continue with this government, they're not really sincere. My nursery doesn't allow lying or betrayal. I guess I'm too naive to assume everyone else has the same nursery.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U90	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U91	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister! You mentioned in your presentation that breaking the existing coalition in both the government and the Riigikogu by the Socialists and the IRL essentially means a left turn in Estonian politics. This also means an increase in the proportion of Russian-language education and changes in citizenship policy, which I myself add. I would add that the left turn is certainly acceptable to the former republics of the Soviet Union, who are trying to get under their control and a very aggressive Eastern neighbour. Could the left turn be accompanied by an increase in security threats and, in the black scenario, could the silent surrender of 1939 and 1940 be repeated, in other words, betraying the independence of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U92	Thank you. The left turn as such is obvious, but I certainly do not call a possible new government a security threat. Yes, it has also been done by several members of the IRL, such as Mikhail Lotman, who has said that he does not consider it absolutely possible for the IRL to participate in such a government. Mart Laar, former Chairman of the Patriotic League, has also said that he does not consider it possible for IRL to participate in a government that has a cooperation agreement with Jedinaya Rossija. I can't imagine it either. I do not think the Estonian public in general can imagine this either. But I do not call a new government or a new possible government, or a government that wishes to be created, under any circumstances, a security threat, because if I say so, these words will create a very strong resonance, and I do not want it. I am still a hopeless optimist, and I hope that everything will be fine in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U93	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U94	Thank you. Prime Minister! The statement of distrust states that the Cabinet has not reached an agreement to amend the sectoral laws relating to administrative reform. At the same time, it is known that the Minister of Public Administration has prepared a draft law amending the local government's income base and other related drafts. Even political agreement has been reached, allegedly at the end of August. Since this complaint is made in the text of the publication of censure, I am interested in who exactly has dragged the members of the government into this matter. Explain the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U95	Thank you. The most bizarre thing is to criticise the government on the subject of administrative reform, which has ultimately pushed this reform into operation, and I very much hope that it will not return. Municipalities all over Estonia are at the end of the accession negotiations. Although there is still a theoretical possibility that this reform can be reversed, my assessment is that it would be very, very wrong. As regards the sectoral laws on the transfer of additional tasks to the associated municipalities, which can be realised once the municipalities have already completed the merger, you are right that this agreement was already concluded at the end of August. As far as I know, these drafts have been in the coordination circle for some time. Neither should any political power in this House have any very fundamental objection. These drafts are not tilted in any way. They are simply based on the principle that if there will be larger municipalities all over Estonia, they can be given more tasks and, of course, more money to carry them out. I can say that these drafts are based on common sense and logic. I hope that they will be passed as a law in this Parliament. They are not urgent; they must enter into force when there are already larger municipalities in Estonia, i.e. after the territorial part of the administrative reform has been taken away. The third issue you mentioned is the changes to the revenue base. The Minister of State Administration, Arto Aas, presented these changes a few weeks ago and their content is very simplistically divisible by saying in two. Firstly, the revenue base of all municipalities will be increased. Secondly, this revenue base is distributed more jointly and severally. This is to prevent marginalisation in an area where, despite the number of inhabitants of the municipality, there is a great deal of dispersal. It is clear that in municipalities with large distances it is even more difficult, for example, to manage the road network than in very compact municipalities. There are, in fact, further changes to the revenue base reform, and they are all very sensible in my opinion. I don't see any fundamental impediments why they can't be put into practice. But if you ask who asked for the debate on these changes to be postponed at the last cabinet meeting, it was the Minister of Justice, because he wanted to discuss them further.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U96	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U97	Thank you. Prime Minister, first of all, thank you for serving the Estonian state as Prime Minister. Your government has decided, as you said in your speech, to build the largest road construction project in the history of Estonia in favour of the four-track construction of the section of the Tartu highway Kose. Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, has announced a plan to increase road funding significantly over the next few years. What do you suggest to a possible new coalition, is it worth going forward with this great Michal road construction project or program?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U98	Thank you. The fact is that there is a strong ambition in this plan developed by Kristen Michal. At the same time, if we think of the successful countries, I have visited a great many of them, both in Europe and beyond, then frankly, I do not know a country where there is still such a long discussion as to whether the country's most important path must be a four-track path or whether two paths are enough. All these dangerous situations, all these tragic accidents, can be reduced by investing in roads. Of course, when people get from one end of the country to the other faster, these regions, which are further away from the major centres, will be revived. The fact that goods can move along the road much faster and more efficiently without hindering people's mobility will boost the economy. I find this plan to be anything but unrealistic. The total financial impact of this plan is around 7% of GDP. I am absolutely certain that if there is enough will, this plan will be viable. I remember very long debates in several governments, in several parliamentary formations also over the construction of the Tartu highway in four lanes. It was argued that this could not be done without the need for a terrible loan. The state's budget strategy adopted by the government in spring proves that it is possible: construction of the Tallinn-Tartu highway for four-track construction until Mäoni has been funded in the state's budget strategy without loans, bonds or anything like that. So if there's ambition and will, anything's possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U99	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U100	Prime Minister! Those expressing mistrust have accused you, or rather the government, of a lack of ability to ensure the sustainability of our social system. For example, the current problems of the Health Insurance Fund have been criticised in a situation where social tax revenues are actually better than forecast. In the government, the social system is the responsibility of the Sotsi and IRL ministers. I see they haven't dared to show their face here. How do you assess the prospects for sustainability of our social system and the work of the current government on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U101	Thank you. Financing the Health Insurance Fund is an issue that needs to be addressed in a strategic perspective. The government has not been, and has not been, invited to debate there any such proposals that would, in principle, improve the funding of the sickness fund, although these proposals would be very much needed. However, as far as this year's minus is concerned, I would not blame the Chairman of the Socialists or, less so, the Chairman of the IRL. On the contrary, the representative of the IRL in the Health Insurance Board has strictly complied with the requirement of budgetary discipline and has done so correctly in terms of his post, and also in his common sense. In my opinion, errors have been made, in particular, at the level of the Bureau and the Council. We need to reform the Health Insurance Board in principle. It is not reasonable that such an important fund, which manages EUR 1 billion of our common money, is managed in a distributed way without anyone being specifically responsible. I am therefore convinced that a Council of 15 must become six, so that everyone who bears responsibility for this billion will have a name and a face and his responsibility well known to the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U102	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U103	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Insurgents have reproached the Prime Minister for tax policy, including social tax reductions. Sven Sester, a member of the IRL, has so far repeatedly stressed the need to reduce labour taxes, including in particular social tax, as a measure to stimulate the economy. However, it can be concluded from his recent statements, including in yesterday's 'Actual Camera', that the Minister of Finance is prepared to give up the 1% reduction in social tax and supports the increase of the social tax rate back to 33%. Of course, it is difficult to understand the frivolous stance of the Minister of Finance on fundamental tax policy issues. But how did you convince the Minister of Finance in the government of the need to cut social tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U104	Thank you. A reduction of 1% in social tax can be ridiculous and said that it is too little. But it's very hard to say it's a step in the wrong direction. This is a fundamental tax policy choice: labour taxation is shifting towards harmful consumption, such as increased taxation of tobacco and alcohol. This is a very fundamental choice. This has meant the consistent work of several governments, which began in the Juhan Parts government and continued in three Andrus Ansip governments and two governments under my leadership. All these governments, without exception, gradually lowered labour taxes. When the Juhan Parts government started this in 2003, income tax in Estonia was 26%. It has actually taken a very long time, and we cut the last percentage point jointly with the Social Democrats in leading the country in 2015. But it is obvious that whether income tax is 26% or 20% means a big difference in international competitiveness and also in people's incomes. The same is true of social tax. If you do not lower 1%, you will never be able to bring social tax to the level that Estonian entrepreneurs find attractive. Estonian entrepreneurs said before the elections, and have also repeatedly said after the elections, that labour taxes must be lowered and this must be done even faster than before. I actually agree with this criticism. I think that this reduction should not be reversed, but, on the contrary, these taxes should be reduced much more than the budget allows. As far as the Minister of Finance is concerned, he is flexible. Just last week, he sent me a text message using hashtag's 'team thing'.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U105	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U106	Thank you! Mr. Prime Minister! The insurgents indicate in their statement that your governments have been ignoring the crisis in agriculture for years. As I am familiar with this area, I dare say that this is an obvious exaggeration in speaking about the activities of the previous Minister, Ivari Padar, and a completely unfair criticism of Urmas Kruus. Perhaps today there would be a place here to talk over what has been done and what will be planned for the future. Are the additional subsidies and work to find new markets a failure to address the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U107	Thank you. I remember last summer I went to a cooperative called E-Pim in your constituency. The leader of the cooperative showed me a clip of an interview with the Prime Minister of New Zealand, who described the crisis there in dairying. All the symptoms he presented met one of the situations in which Estonian dairy producers also have their own. Ivar Padar, Urmas Kruuse or Taavi Kõiva is hardly responsible for the distress of dairy farmers producing milk in New Zealand. I think that both Ivar Padar and Urmas Kruuse have done everything in their power to ensure that Estonian agriculture is doing well. With regard to milking in particular, we understand, of course, that if Russia says that they are not buying our milk, no cooperation agreement will help here, but the inevitable thing is that our milk will not get there. If Russia does not buy our milk, there will be an oversupply on our market. At the same time, if there is an oversupply of this product across Europe, this will lead to a fall in prices. It's a completely basic economic logic. In this situation, of course, it is difficult for dairy farmers; they are objectively difficult. What can the Estonian Minister for Rural Affairs, Government or Parliament do to make these difficulties smaller? Firstly, it is the dairy sector that can be paid as well-targeted as possible. It's been done. By the way, even for top-up, the state budget for next year is set at 4.6 million euros, precisely in order for it to go to dairying. The maximum amount of milking here is 9.2 million. You can't pay more than that milking top-up. But if we add up all the subsidies that have been paid for dairying, we will see that the amounts are, of course, much higher. What else can I do? It is possible to do what has been done carefully by the current Minister for Enterprise of the Government, but also by the Prime Minister and several other ministers, such as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure,: you can go to potential new target markets to open them up to our agricultural production. Urmas Kruuse is not here today because he is returning from one of these trips. I very much hope that the Asian market he visited will give Estonian farmers additional turnover in the future and it is worth working for it. Any minister in the government must work to open up new markets. This is something that works very well, especially in remote markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U108	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! As a member of the National Defence Commission and an officer of the Defence League, I read the section on defence most attentively in the text of the request for distrust. As the author of this text is the Centre Party, I cannot first fail to mention my sincere pleasure that since this Riigikogu membership, the word'state defence' has also come into the vocabulary of the Centre Party. But now the question. You will be accused of not reacting to a lesser extent to the deteriorating security situation. This is being criticised in a situation where a huge leap has been made at the level of the Estonian Defence Forces, whether in anti-tank weapons or armoured capabilities, in a situation where Ämaris has allies' planes and a battle group of allies is arriving in Estonia. Do you understand this charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U110	Thank you. Indeed, this accusation is inappropriate, to put it mildly. The Estonian state has never been as well protected as it is now, the Estonian defence forces have never been so strong, and the plans made in the new long-term development plan will further strengthen Estonian national defence. If investments for Estonian national defence are kept at least 2% of GDP, the last two governments have maintained this level above 2% of GDP and must continue to do so, then it will be possible to further strengthen the Estonian Defence Forces over the next few years, increase its staff, improve its armaments, acquire more munitions, etc. This 2% is essential and compliance with it is existential. That's one. To say that Estonia or our allies have done nothing or have not reacted in any way is also inappropriate to say the least. On 26 March 2014, when I took office as Prime Minister of the Republic, no Allied Warriors were permanently present in Estonia. To date, the presence of the allies here is not only a reality, it is NATO's official policy. Foreign ministers and defence ministers from a number of government coalition parties have worked on this, and a large number of defence forces, diplomats and state officials have worked on this. This criticism of the opposition that nothing has been done offends, I believe, all of them. This is exceptionally inappropriate. I repeat: Estonia's defence capabilities are stronger today than ever before. The foundation that has now been built must be built on more and more. Only in this way can we be sure that Estonia is an independent state until the end of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U111	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U112	Thank you. Prime Minister! Let's talk about trust. I am in the Riigikogu for the first time, but I have now realised that sincerity and frankness in communication between politicians do not always mean the fastest way to success. However, honesty is the basis for trust. If the IRL and the Social Democrats went behind our backs to break the coalition, why couldn't they admit it to the people? Can the Estonian people trust their future rulers if they have lied to the people in the 'Actual Camera' as well as in other media?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U113	Thank you. Time will tell whether this planned government will be born or not. It's hard to say today. But what can be said in the light of the statements made by several actors is that a plan has been made for quite a long time, and for quite a long time, the partner has been just lied to us, the Reform Party in this case, as well as the Estonian public. It can also be said that the crumbs have been eyewashed or misguided, but the wolf does not become less dangerous than being called a forest call. I'm not afraid to say that I've been lied to personally. I guess that's been my biggest mistake as Prime Minister. I do not feel that I have made mistakes in leading the Estonian state, but I am certainly wrong that I have been too good-faith towards some of my partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U114	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U115	Thank you, Javier! It is a pity, of course, that none of the members of the political parties that want to distrust the government has any questions. It is usually said that if there are no questions, whether everyone understands or does not understand anything. But that's it. Estonia has made significant progress over the last few decades. Our GDP has grown nearly fourfold. We are a clear global reference point in the area of innovation. We have worked very, very hard compared to many other countries with whom we fought for independence at the same time. If Estonia had chosen the left road about twenty years ago, what do you think Estonia would look like today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U116	Thank you. I don't really want to draw that picture in front of my head, because then I'd go to sleep at night, and because I'm having a good night's sleep, I don't want to take that risk. Objectively, it can be said that it is very difficult to find any area that is really important and where any country that has started with us from the same start offer would be more successful than us, be it economics, education or any other area. Estonia has been very well managed over the last 25 years. There have been governments that have been run by the Fatherland, there have been governments that have been run by Res Publica, and there have also been quite a number of governments that have been run by the Reform Party. Both those parties that have led some governments and all those parties that have been part of some governments have played a very important role. Of the parties currently not represented here, the Group has also played a role, so that Estonia is still on the right course. Without wanting to be too dramatic, I say that I do not think it is necessary to change the course that has led to this success. I am grateful to all Estonian governments, all their predecessors, all the political parties who have assumed the responsibility of government in Estonia, that they have had the wisdom and the statesmanship to make the right choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U117	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Reading the motion of censure against you gives the impression that reproach has been sought rather. A motion of distrust may be judged politically technologically. Your presentation and our observations also show that many reproaches have been made through you to the ministers of your coalition, including the ministers of the IRL and the Social Democratic Party. In a few moments, when the vote takes place, members of the IRL and SDE will probably also take part. How do you assess the result of whether these parties will vote for you or against you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U119	We'll see about that. But I have no illusions as to whether a motion of mistrust will pass today. I'm sure he'll go. All the more reason I wanted to stand here today in front of you and not just go quietly by myself. I feel that the criticism that has been made about the government's partners in this motion of distrust is unfair. It is certainly not necessary to read all this so as to understand that these are the reasons that have been sought and that there is something else behind it. In fact, it just takes an excuse to get rid of this Prime Minister, who has proved uncomfortable for those who want to turn power, and to find new partners. We understand that perfectly. We all understand. It's understood by the IRL and understood by the Social Democrats, everyone gets it. So in all the things that have been thrown at the Socialists, the IRL and the entire government in this motion of distrust, I was still ready to defend these ministers on Monday. I'm also willing to defend myself afterwards, today as well. There are inappropriate reproaches in these matters, but in some other matters concerning honesty, it is possible to make reproaches. That's where we're smarter now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U120	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U121	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You read out the things the government could do during that time. Having been elected from Ida-Virumaa, I want to highlight what the government did for Ida-Virumaa at a very difficult time when thousands of jobs were at risk in the energy sector. I think it is a strong government that can make quick and very important decisions. In my opinion, because the government came to the rescue and quickly lowered taxes, thousands of jobs are no longer in danger. Thank you for that. But when it comes to reasons, I think they're the reasons I've been looking for. Don't you think that maybe the main reason is that the Reform Party as a government department is too strong and it's much better to replace this partner with a more comfortable partner who isn't that strong? Apparently, the government wasn't 15, it was only seven.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U122	Thank you. Most of the time, this government was still a 15-member government. I can tell the ministers made an effort. I'm pretty sure a few members of the government didn't find out about the plot until the end of the deal. So I don't want to be unfairly critical of them in any way. On the contrary, it is possible to praise every minister without exception. No one in the government has failed to perform their duties. As regards the specific decisions taken at the March session in Narva, I am also pleased that they have had such a major socio-economic impact on Ida-Viru County. From March until today, unemployment in Ida-Virumaa has decreased by 2.7%, which explains that about 1 in 4 unemployed people in Ida-Virumaa have found a job. It may seem like a number to us in Excel, but behind it are hundreds and hundreds of families whose livelihoods have improved as a result. So this type of decision should under no circumstances be feared in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U123	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U124	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! You have made a good name for Estonia in the world, perhaps more than many prime ministers before you, and held the Estonian flag high. Thanks for that. But in your answer, you mentioned tobacco and fuel excise for a moment. According to today's investigative press, the new coalition has been assembled in the corner of smoke over the last few months. Do you regret not being a smoker?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U125	Thank you. That's probably the best question of the day. No regrets. I have to come back to my nursery again. My quitting grandfather was the one who once told me never to start smoking. I've never raised a cigarette on my lips in my life, and I'm not going to.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U126	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U127	Thank you. Prime Minister, good Taavi! It is very likely that this secret agreement, which lasted for weeks, took place behind the back of the majority of the IRL and the Socialist Group. Since you are most likely to speak for the last time here as Prime Minister of this government, do you want to thank any of our partners personally or less personally?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U128	I would like to thank everyone who has made an effort to make Estonia's life better! I think that there are no people in the Social Democrats, in the IRL or in the Reform Party who would not have worked for this in more than a year and a half. In my speech, I actually thanked each of them. I think we got a lot done together. It's up to all of us to carry on what we've done. The aim must be to prevent it from turning back wherever it would make Estonia's life worse in a short or long view. It has not all been the responsibility of the Reform Party; it has also been the responsibility of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and also the Social Democrats. I thank everyone who did this job without exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U129	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Kadri Simson Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U130	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, A little over a year and a half ago, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas formulated his own motto. This motto was that Estonia only needs fine-tuning. The fine-tuning Prime Minister has brought us to a situation where the government that is leaving today could bear the title of a stagnation government. We have heard the Prime Minister's explanation of this situation today. About a situation where he's a bit surprised today. But this pattern we've seen before. If the economy was in stagnation and no decisions were made because the Prime Minister was unable to decide, there could be no criticism. When the economy was in trouble, the answer was still that the government was dealing with the security situation. When the support of the government and the Prime Minister was low, a memorable song was again taken: in the current security situation, the Reform Party cannot be criticised. In the 18th century, the King of the Sun could afford to say, "Country, it's me." The Reform Party has been in constant power in Estonia in the 21st century, but the rhetoric that the state is a Reform Party or Reform Party is a state is still inappropriate in Estonia. For 17 years, the Reform Party has changed its partners on a number of occasions, so far six times. You have to change your partners when it gives you a fresh breath. You could say this is a welcome shift. This exchange has been sent with expectation: it is expected that the economy will be able to move. This shift could free us from our dogmas. The Prime Minister also promised, when he took office, that we would become a new Nordic country. Now a rhetorical move is being used, as if Estonia were to have a left-wing government. Isn't it humorous that the promise of the Reform Party to turn Estonia into a new Nordic country needs the same policy as the northern neighbours that it needs a more social policy? I'm not going to rewrite the statement of confidence to you. But you all know that the indecisive Prime Minister, led by the government, brings problems. The problems are not only visible here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, but they are visible everywhere in Estonia. These problems have been further described in the distrust text. Based on these, we are today voting in favour of mistrust of Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U131	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U132	Mr President! Honourable representatives, ministers and guests! First of all, I am pleased that the Reform Party Group also had so many questions to ask Taavi Rõivas. Normally, if we've been doing this either in Question Time or in times of questioning on long Monday nights, this line here has been empty. So we've been asking questions, yes and yes. This stagnation diagnosis is actually written in the text of distrust. I would not stop at this, but I will try to make a few considerations that will take on the situation, perhaps more broadly than just reproaching the indecisiveness of the government and the mistakes that have been made. First of all, I have the feeling that this Reform Party machine has long been working more on impressions and political technology than on substantive changes. He has become rather a brake on meaningful reforms. Yeah, you got the right choices back in the day, but it was all too long ago and it wouldn't help us any more. The Reform Party is not ready to admit that political decisions taken with their participation or leadership have now been or need to be changed. You are strong in the creation of signs and mythologies. I do not think that the current story of the left turn should be taken much more seriously than the ever promise to be among the five richest countries in Europe. Compared to the manifesto of the former citizens' state, the Reform Party itself has, in my opinion, tended to a great deal to the left. Your declarative right-wing absolutizes perhaps a few of your time-living or early-boosting taxogmas. The Reform Party has also become a typical administrative party, as it has always been in Eastern Europe and also in CIS countries, when it has remained in power for too long. Jedinaya Rossija and Jen's Azerbaidgen are in some way your distant relatives. Yes, your methods are certainly more refined. But you have received invaluable help from Edgar Savisaar's person, whom writer Andrus Kivirähk has rightly called the main guarantee of the rule of the Reform Party and the honorary chairman of squirrels. Being in power too long for one party has given rise to staleness at different levels of state power, and there is obviously an urgent need for ventilation. In my opinion, this knock also means spiritual staleness in thinking, which, by the way, is expressed in a clearly expressed perception of self-replaceability in recent days. And also, I think you have completely lost the strategic leadership that the Prime Minister's party needed and inherent in the past leaders may have had in some way. After all, it is not possible to dictate to the entire political spectrum merely its obsessions without listening to the opposition and even to the partners of the government. An outstanding example was also the attempt to push through their own candidates in the presidential elections without inviting other partners to dialogue. Finally, I have already said this many times, the government of Taavi Kõivas has been misassembled since the beginning. Election promises were taken out, price tags were placed on them, and then tax adjustments started to seek funds. The problems facing our country and society cannot be allowed to be such an easy pattern. That's probably why the government didn't become a team that would raise acute problems to find solutions for them together. Of course, it is appropriate to ask what the next government will be. It is certainly important to us that governance is more transparent, that the initiative of decentralised and local communities is clearly encouraged. However, the principle of a peaceful and democratic change of power must, in any case, be guaranteed, without talking about a security threat or a left turn, which is clearly irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U133	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U134	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, Taavi Rõivas said a little while ago that Estonia is the best country in the world. Absolutely agree, I think so, in the opinion of our party. That is why we want the best government for Estonia, and that is why we want to dismantle the current government. We were just listening to the Prime Minister's presentation. In my opinion, there was only one conclusion to be drawn from this whole story: the Prime Minister or, more broadly, the Reform Party still does not understand what is wrong. He does not understand how it is possible for five political groups to want to take down the Prime Minister, even though the Prime Minister and his party believe that the work has been impeccable. There can be no reproach, everything is in the best condition, mutual trust in the government has been, in his opinion, complete, until the last few days. However, we all know that all the parties in the government went to the opposition in the past looking for alternative government options. All sides of the government went. What kind of trust and who can we talk about here? It is quite clear to me that the Reform Party is doing the same thing today, it is very good to compare what the world's media did in connection with Donald Trump: it created a myth, it believed its propaganda itself, and it does not understand what is wrong. I don't understand. Of course, this is incomprehensible to me. I know that there are intelligent people in the Reform Party who should know what has really caused this murmuring: corruption, arrogance, avoiding any change in the fear that the chair will waver, the perception that the country is them. That is what my colleagues have already said here. You actually understand what's being blamed for. We can sum it up by saying that you are completely tired of ruling, tired of talking. The other option is that you really believe in your propaganda. As you probably understand by now, no one else will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U135	On behalf of the Group of the Urve Tiidus Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U136	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U137	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! Ministers! Guests! The current situation in Estonian politics can be said, like the old people, that neither the forces will make it cute. Coalitions have changed before and will change after today. The fact is that instead of working for jointly set goals, the two coalitions decided to break up the government and dive into a new relationship, this time with the Centre Party. And an interesting relationship is going to be that. Estonia, on the other hand, is currently faced with political choices, in which there is also a great deal of left-wing. What this cooperation with the Conservatives on the right will look like is shown by time. The Union of the Fatherland and Res Publica will most likely have to make concessions on citizenship, taxation and education policies in the future. For people and businesses, this is likely to mean a higher tax burden, perhaps property taxes. The IRL, whose rhetoric has always sounded like Estonian cultural and national ideals, now wants to promote a policy that favours tax increases and a different language policy. But we don't know exactly here right now. And who knows what other responsibilities will result from finding a common political part, because there is also an agreement with the United Russia in the drawer of Jüri Ratas, a possible new Prime Minister. Change is the heritage of life. It is up to analysts and historians to objectively record these changes and their causes and consequences for future generations. As we know, in a democratic society, there is a manifestation of power in elections. As the Party of Right Liberals, the Reform Party has won the Riigikogu elections on two consecutive occasions and received the greatest support from the people last year. We will remain the largest group in the Riigikogu. The government has been in office for 19 months now, and during this period important decisions have been made to revive the economy and strengthen Estonia's security under the Coalition Agreement. Let us once again mention these major changes. They've already been heard here, but I'll say it again. Lowering labour taxes, increasing tax-free income, strengthening Estonia's security, building the eastern border, reforming state governance and bringing about administrative reform. The daily security of Estonian people is also enhanced by increased family benefits, even the EUR 300 allowance for the third child, and the allowance for pensioners living alone. During this period, the administrative reform has moved on intensively; in action it has moved on more intensively than ever before. Advanced local authorities have concluded and are entering into accession agreements, recognising that high-quality services do not mean as much rural municipalities and rural municipality elders as possible, but professional and efficient services. The Reform Party will continue to implement the liberal and Estonian independence policy. We will continue to stand firm for right-wing Estonia. I'm sure that's where we have our allies. The most important thing now is that the people of Estonia, families, employers, workers, pensioners and children can count on the change of direction not to destroy everything that has brought Estonia success. Personally, I very much hope that the new government will not put a debt burden on future generations, which will make you feel good in the short term. Governance is never easy, of course it requires work, dedication, and responsibility. As leader of the Reform Party Group, I thank the Prime Minister and the Government for their good cooperation with our Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U139	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I put to the vote the publication of censure on Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please take a stand and vote. Honourable Riigikogu, there were 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour of expressing censure, 28 against and no abstentions. The Riigikogu expressed mistrust for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U140	The next item is the third reading of Draft Act 249 on the Amendment to the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U141	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act 249 on the Amendment to the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U142	Let's keep going. The third reading of the draft Act amending the Law on organic farming initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 282. We are going to the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on organic farming initiated by the Government of the Republic 282. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U143	The third reading of the draft law amending the 2016 State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the draft law amending this year's state budget, the third reading of which is underway. A brief summary of what has happened between second and third readings. Two proposals have been received, one from the Free Party Group and the other from the Finance Committee in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. The proposal of the Free Party is essentially the same as they did after the first reading. This concerns the allocation of funds to the agricultural sector, a total of EUR 5.3 million. This proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, as the government did not support this proposal and neither did the commission. The second proposal, which has been made in cooperation with the Finance Committee and the Ministry of Finance, concerns some of the redeployments in the budget of the Ministry of Finance, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Education and Põlva Hospital and the costs of networking Põlva Hospital. This also concerns the entry into force of the draft law: according to the proposal, the law will enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. The point is that ministries can implement the changes as soon as possible at the end of this year. The Commission unanimously took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda by 9 November 2016 to the end of the third reading and to put it to the final vote. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U145	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account. A second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal of the commission is to conclude the third reading of the draft 296 and to put it to a final vote. We are going to the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the 2016 State Budget Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 296. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 5 abstentions and no one opposed. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U146	Let's keep going. Today's fifth item on the agenda is a presentation on the implementation of legislative developments until 2018. The rapporteur is Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. But before we go to that, ladies and gentlemen, I will brief you on the procedure. First of all, there is a report by the Minister of Justice, which lasts up to 20 minutes. Then there are questions, each member of the Riigikogu may ask the rapporteur one oral question. Representatives of the political groups may take the floor during the negotiations. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Now I ask the Minister for Justice of the Speaker Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. A respectable representative of the people! My task is to give Parliament a presentation on the implementation of developments in legal policy this year. This is the fifth time. Developments in legal policy have been developed until 2018. As we spoke in the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu, we intend to start preparing a new text on developments in legal policy over the next year. It is obvious that this will take place in cooperation with the legislator. I would like to stress that, in implementing developments in legal policy, the government has put great emphasis on identifying the ultima ratio, i.e. the need for a draft, before drafting a draft law, and on developing a plan for development, i.e. the ITC. I can say that this trend has been positive if statistics are also to be taken as a basis. The share of ITCs, based on the sample period, the first half of 2014, has increased more than twice in the first half of 2016. It is not a bureaucratic thing in itself, but it is actually a method of achieving better quality regulation. You could say that we are in the middle of a certain process. If the share of VTCs is now 33%, then there is a desire and a request for it to grow. In the light of the upcoming Presidency of the Council of the European Union, it is certainly appropriate to draw the legislator's attention to the future philosophy of Estonian legislation, which could be the carrier of both the Council of the European Union working groups and the Council of Ministers during the Presidency. I would like to stress that the quality of the Presidency should certainly not be assessed in terms of the quantity of legislation, i.e. how many legislation has been brought to a new stage in the procedural corridor. Here is a good example of the Netherlands, which was a very good and fair arbiter during the Presidency, with specific priorities, and clearly showed that the number of laws adopted is not in itself a priority. It is certainly important to follow the sound rules of our legislation, which we consider important. Legal intervention should only be used if it is strictly necessary and no other appropriate measures are available. The same is true of the European legislative initiatives proposed by the Commission. I would like to stress that it is very important to discuss and take a demanding and critical view of the impact analyses of the European Commission in our sense, in the working groups. I can give you an example. In order to address certain competition concerns in the food supply chain, the European Commission proposes, as one of the measures, a new national supervisory duty, to ensure that the country has an additional task of monitoring trading practices and contractual terms. However, in the case of impact analyses, the view of our government is that new supervisory obligations and expansion of the state may not be a sensible measure to address these problems. Seriously and critically, European legal initiatives, which have been being dealt with for a very long time, must also be addressed. It is certainly important here to stress in the working groups and in the Councils that the Commission needs to critically review whether there is any reason to proceed with initiatives that have been delayed for a very long time due to differences between Member States. It has to be decided whether such compromises are a piece of legislation that may no longer have any particular regulatory content or effect at all, which was once sought. It is positive that President Juncker's Commission has also declared, in September of this year, that it has withdrawn 90 initiatives from the procedure this year and last year, which did not have a realistic perspective. I think this attitude should be welcomed. Members of Parliament shall have access to the text of the report in writing, which shall contain more detailed statistical information. The next phase of work is ahead. The legislator and the government will have to work together next year to develop new developments for the next period. I certainly think it is important to stress, and I believe that it will be discussed in the sectoral committees, which is the legal philosophy of the Estonian Presidency. Of course, my call is to implement this concept of regulatory mediation, which we have also based on European legislative initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U148	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Toomas Vitsut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U149	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, A year ago, I had the honour of speaking on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party about developments in legal policy. Similarly, the Centre Party Group has trusted me to speak on this issue today in the negotiations. But now on the subject. In my opinion and in our opinion, the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia must first be used as a basis for the formulation of legal policy. The Constitution gives us a direction within which we can even implement legislation. Each legislative initiative must be thoroughly prepared, preceded by a TTC and followed by an ex-post evaluation. The legislative policy development document places a great deal of emphasis on the need for the draft law to be preceded by the TTC. The ITC gives a clear overview of the circumstances in which it becomes clear whether there is even a need to amend the law in the current legal order. Although the number of VTCs has increased year after year, the ministries do not yet agree on its necessity. This is how we meet initiatives in the Riigikogu over and over again, such as urgent things that do not have a VTC. On the one hand, urgency may be justified in removing from the legal order unconstitutional rules that have resulted in the suffering of people or on which people's lives depend. On the other hand, the urgency may be caused by delaying the legislator. The Administrative Reform Act is a clear example of what is behind the argument of urgency. The Minister of State Administration was able to bring the drafts on the reform of the local government much earlier into the Riigikogu proceedings. Unfortunately, we are now faced with a situation where local authorities are already joining, but the drafts have not yet reached the Riigikogu. At the same time, many municipalities have a pending view of what the Supreme Court decides about the Administrative Reform Act and have not yet taken a position on the merger. Such legislation does not give the people of Estonia confidence in the laws adopted. One thing is the drafting of the VTK, another story is to involve stakeholders in the drafting process, and it is even more important to take into account the opinion of stakeholders involved in drafting the draft. In accordance with 'good practice of separation', experts and those directly affected by the proposed regulation should be consulted. Often considered... I'm asking for an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U150	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U151	... ministries with the opinion of interest groups only in order to comply with the 'good practice of covering', but in the end, it is still based on what was originally planned in the drafting. For example, the Estonian Bar Association is not in favour of obtaining the right of appeal in the case of judgments determining the extent of the payment and expenditure of state legal aid in civil and administrative matters and the reimbursement of the costs of state legal aid, or of the possibility for the Chamber of Notaries to open an office in another working area. Continuing legislative changes continue to be a problem. There will be no case-law on the surface of the norm if the law changes. By October of this year, 383 of the existing law had been amended to 224, which is already more than the total last year. Thus, there is still a situation in Estonia where everything is considered so important that it can only be regulated at the level of the law. This constant introduction of new regulations and changes to old standards are detrimental to the stability of the whole legal system, leading to ambiguities both in the application of the rules and in the addressees. The Estonian Central Party Group considers that every legislative initiative must be thoroughly prepared. In addition to initiating a new law or amending the existing law, any options that can reduce the volume of legislation must be considered. In addition to the CPC, more emphasis needs to be placed on the ex-post evaluation of the legislation. Only by acting in this way can we improve the quality of legislation so that people have confidence in the state and confidence in the law in force. Thank you for listening!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U152	Thank you. Please speak on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U153	Good fellows! Good manager! Developments in legal policy are essential for legal policy-making and compliance with them must ensure the quality of legislation. The report by the Minister of Justice revealed that the Ministry of Justice has put great emphasis on assessing the necessity and drafting of the VTK before drafting a draft law. This is to determine whether a change of law is necessary in order to solve the problem or whether another instrument is suitable for solving the problem. This will help to avoid contentless regulation. Statistics show that the number of VTCs has increased from year to year. The report also pointed out that Estonian legislation must take one step in the development of legislation by the institutions of the European Union and the Member States. It is absolutely important that Estonia takes one step forward in the legislative development of the European Union and that the legislative process respects common requirements. At the same time, as you could hear from the report, several ministries have shown reluctance to prepare the VTK. It has been criticised that the coordination process is long and bureaucratic. There has also been a dispute as to the cases in which the prior drafting of various policy documents or the urgency of the matter could rule out the obligation to draw up the CPC. The Ministry of Justice has proposed that the implementation of the derogation should be agreed at the Government of the Republic each time. We believe that agreements at the level of the Government of the Republic may not always be sufficient and that this issue needs clearer regulation in legislation. At the same time, it can be argued that the objectives set as an instrument for better regulation may not always be achieved by the ITC. The form of the ITC that has been completed alone and its coordination do not mean that the subsequent legislation will be of more quality in substance. Nor can it be concluded from the failure merely to draw up the TTC that the draft has not been considered in sufficient detail. There is no point in drawing up the CPC in a situation where the need to amend the law and a specific way have been predetermined. It cannot be considered as a substantive debate to promote the TTC, which will be drawn up after the Government or experts of the Republic have approved a specific appropriate measure. It is clear that there is no added value in these cases when the ITC is being drafted. We believe that the policy-makers must retain the right to take responsibility for the need to amend the law even if the problem concerns few or it is not possible to prove the effectiveness of the measure in every way. The question arises as to whether it is necessary at all costs to draw up an ITC if the constitutional institutions have found that specific legislation is unconstitutional or is creating an illegal situation and it is therefore necessary to amend the law. We continue to expect a greater contribution to the ex-post evaluation of legislation in the future. I also brought it up in my speech last year. The aim must not be to quantify laws whose effects cannot be assessed ex post. An assessment of the functioning of existing law is at least as important as the creation of a new law. We therefore hope that the government will pay as much attention to the ex-post evaluation of legislation as to new initiatives. In his presentation, the Minister of Justice pointed out that we do not sufficiently deal with the ex-post evaluation of laws, but there are some good examples if the creation of a new right is also intended for ex-post evaluation. This has been done, for example, by the Ministry of Finance, whose various drafts include an ex-post evaluation obligation. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U154	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U155	For example, according to the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, after its adoption as a law, it is intended to analyse the purpose of the regulation of taxation as a special advantage for the promotion of employee's health. The tax credit for expenditure to promote the health of workers is therefore fixed for a period of five years. It can be accepted that there is a need to assess the real impact of the proposed changes, but this does not oblige the introduction of legal regulation for a limited period of time. As a general rule, the legislative act does not indicate the expiry of its period of validity, since it is possible for the legislator to assess on an ongoing basis the purpose and effectiveness of the legal regulation and the need to initiate the amendment or repeal of the law. We therefore believe that the Ministry of Justice should explain the actual content and purpose of the ex-post evaluation instrument. Ex-post evaluation should not mean that regulation will be introduced for a fixed period in the future. Can we imagine the regulation of parental benefit or the pension system being introduced as a fixed-term benefit? I will summarise my report with the thoughts of the Chancellor of Justice, which he expressed before the Riigikogu. on September 20, 2015/16. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the Reasonable legislation is precisely one that shows objectives, values and principles, but linking it to a particular person and to his or her situation requires human understanding and care. We must accept that, unfortunately, life is not foreseeable. From here on, the quote comes: 'If even one person in Estonia has been in trouble or damaged by an anti-constitutional standard, this standard must be improved. ' I would add that this rule must be improved without any excessive bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U156	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Rait Maruste Reform Party, I would like to ask for a speaking point.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The not very high number of guests reflects perhaps the work of the Minister and his achievements in this area, which is not very great. This issue had to be discussed yesterday by the Committee on Legal Affairs and we wanted to discuss it in the political group, but it was not possible, in essence, because the document that we should have discussed was intended for official use only until the presentation was made in the Riigikogu. So we had to guess what the Minister was saying and what was going on in justice policy. If the report is not even available before it is discussed, the minister's attitude towards the Riigikogu as a legislator and the Committee on Legal Affairs shows somewhat. Then I'll talk about the substance. This is an overview of the implementation of developments in legal policies. It would set out, as if, to address the important issues of justice policy that the country is facing. However, if you look at the document that finally became available today, we find that it is rather an internal document of the Ministry of Justice that deals with the organisation of work. Half of the material is devoted to the debate on the CPC, a little about the forthcoming legislative work on the European Union (in total half a page) and a little about the new legislative method called "pulling." If you understood what it meant, you got it, if you didn't, you didn't. Not a word can be found in this document about how we should reduce the overregulation that is taking place in Estonia today and every day. We have a large number of laws and regulations in which orientation is extremely difficult even for a specialist. We regulate individual issues in law-level legislation. This creates a situation where we have, over and over again, laws entitled '... the law amending the law'. We're not getting anywhere like this. Next, the language of the legislation and its content are complex and difficult to understand. This is understandable on the move, i.e. only for those who drafted this legislation. But to whom are we going to draw up these laws? Any average reasonable person should be able to understand for himself what the law says and how he should act. Every complex piece of legislation requires bureaucrats to implement it, and it also increases the authority of the official body to which this complex piece of legislation belongs. The government has put on the agenda, as a general rule, the aim of reducing bureaucracy and overregulation, but nothing like this can be found in this document. On the contrary, the VTKs are very long and voluminous, at times the explanatory notes to the drafts are overwhelming. For example, the bill may be three pages, but the explanatory memorandum is 30 pages long. Just a little more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U158	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U159	My argument is that if the draft, which consists of three pages, needs to be published on 30 pages, then it is very badly written in the draft. Unfortunately, this document does not pay any attention to such questions. There is also a very big problem with the legal language. Legal language has been allowed to become extremely complex and difficult to understand for ordinary people. How can we fight it, how can we correct it? Again, the review doesn't touch at all. It is therefore regrettable to note that this review did not meet the expectations that I had come to this remote control and that our group's expectations were not the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U160	Thank you. Raivo Time on behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U161	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, who have remained in this Chamber! In February 2011, the Riigikogu approved "The Developments of Legal Policy until 2018." In one of these cases, the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice were obliged to report on the results of this work to the Riigikogu every year and inform the Riigikogu. As a result, at least once a year, we will have a good opportunity to throw back at our own legislative work, its performance and its volume, and to briefly assess the quality of this work. As we can read from last year's report, the current 383 laws became adjusted throughout the year and added five new laws. From this we can see that the agreement in the coalition agreement still in force today, on the initiative of the IRL, that the volume of legislation must be reduced, has not achieved its objective and has not come to fruition. This raises the question of whether the principle of ultima ratio has always been followed in lawmaking. Has the amendment always been an inevitable, justified and exclusive solution? Years have been discussed on the subject of how comprehensible and easy-to-read laws must be in the opinion of ordinary people that they are able to orient themselves, without legal assistance, in the regulations that govern life, without being aware of them becoming lawbreakers. This is not only a matter of law, however, and the same multiplicity of interpretations, and the complexity of the text and thoughts, are often also found in sub-acts given under the law. In particular, the easy readability and comprehensibility of the legislation in cases where a failure to do so could result in a more severe type of sanction. The legislator must take into account that ordinary farmers, foresters or fishermen, for example, can also understand the norm so that they can simply avoid becoming involved in the role of offenders because of ignorance. Too often we face a situation where there are a number of shortcomings and omissions in real life when implementing legislation born in silence in the cabinet. The involvement of non-governmental cooperation partners in the drafting of legislation is already at an early stage of this work. By doing so, we will be able to ensure that only those who are the best experts in this area represent a sector or a group of societies. Apart from the legislative process of involvement of partners, comprehensive planning and analysis prior to the quality of a strong additional guarantee in each case will provide a strong additional guarantee. This specific measure is included as a direct requirement in the form of the "Good Regulation and Rules of Conduct' ("the Code of Conduct'). As can be read in the report, the situation is improving, but it is not yet satisfactory. It can be said that we have reached a level where the VTC is drawn up in one third of cases. A few years ago, this figure was halved. It is estimated that the failure to draw up the ITC is justified in about half of the cases, whether it is the transposition of European Union law or the external agreement. However, in one third of cases, the failure to do so has still been unjustified. Despite the frequent controversy over the necessity of the VTK, my group and I support the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice in consistent compliance with this principle. We wish them success, so that our legislation becomes more understandable, more traceable and easier to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U162	Thank you. Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U163	Mr President of the sitting! The Free Party Group has asked me to say a few thoughts on this issue, even for the verbatim report. I am certainly not the best speaker on this issue, because our group is part of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which is working on this subject, Külliki Hatter, but he is currently watching elections in America. So I'm trying to talk instead of him. Listening to the brief summary of the Minister of Justice and having read this text in advance, on which it was perhaps unreasonably stated that it was intended for official use, I had some thoughts similar to those of Rait Marustel, the representative of the people who analysed the subject. This text and the roster, what do we learn from it? We will find out from there what the Ministry of Justice and the legislative departments of other ministries are dealing with. As we understand, they have a lot of concern and effort and, moreover, an infinite workload with several parts, but it seems that the most labour-intensive part is called the drafting of the ITC. It could be like this, I don't want to argue with it. I raise this question, which is why we in the Riigikogu need to know anything about what is being dealt with in the Ministry of Justice or in the relevant department of another ministry. It sounds like such a weeping song that though we have a difficult life, we have a lot of work to do. The only thing that goes unsaid is that we should give in to the staff and raise the salary. Basically, as members of the Riigikogu, we should have absolutely no matter which phases pass through some sort of draft before reaching us, whether he has been walking in the meantime, walking backwards, somewhere in the direction, or walking on his head or circulating between some ministries. It's none of our business. It is up to us to get as good a result as possible, but how they get there in turn, that is not our business. I wasn't a member of the Riigikogu in 2011 and I don't know how the idea was born in this house, but maybe it wasn't born in this house, that there should be such a special format for the legal policy presentation, which is then reported once a year. Maybe one of the smartest people will ever explain it to me. My personal current working version is that 2011 was undoubtedly one of the rubber temples of the Riigikogu and the highlights of the period of work without any substantial work. Then they could certainly come up with some sort of pseudochance to make sure there was some kind of activity. For some reason, I think that the nipple we are currently discussing is not made up in this house, but probably either from the Ministry of Justice or from somewhere else, probably like another Member State of the European Union. So I think there is, in fact, only one subject worthy of the Riigikogu: would we not lose this responsibility to make such reports instead? I would very much like what was said here by the representative of the people Rait Maruste to happen so that we can talk about the really hot issues of legal policy, but not about the way in which the papers are going within the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U164	Thank you. There's no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also concluded the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U165	Let's keep going. The first reading of Bill 317 of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. I ask Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment of the Speaker's Office, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U166	Good afternoon. Since I am an old person, I have seen many things in my life, including political action on social welfare, being a minister in this field. So this is not a surprise issue. This is a right-wing draft, as it should be. This means that the people that society needs to help must stand up for. The strong can afford it. Bill 317 regulates a number of areas. Firstly, the draft amends the regulation on childcare. The child care service for a child with severe and deep disability is provided by the local government. From now on, it will be a social service organised by the local government, so far it was aid granted by the State. The funding will continue through the Municipal Support Fund, with an additional EUR 1 million to support children with deep disabilities. As of 1 December 2016, 7216 children with severe and deep disabilities lived in Estonia, while 12% of the target population used childcare in 2015. Most needed other social services, such as supporter, transport, etc., which could be financed from the surplus of child care funding. The funds for the care of children with severe and deep disabilities are currently allocated to local governments through the number of children with severe and deep disabilities. Formula-based grants to local authorities are part of the activities financed through the Fund, which is why the current funding is contrary to the State Budget Act. This is not about creating a new situation in substance, since the organisation and provision of childcare services is already the responsibility of the local government, due to the pre-school child care institution law. The description and minimum standard of services are regulated in the Social Welfare Act. The description of the services is provided by the Pre-school Children's Institution Act in such a way that they can be obtained by children aged 1.5 to 3 and children with disabilities up to 18 years of age. If children with disabilities were also granted prior to the grant, the reference to the pre-school institution law is new. Perhaps a small part of the Pre-school Childhood Act and a public service previously in the Social Welfare Act were brought together, the provision of which was by nature a prior responsibility of the local government. The role of the state has so far been to fund child care for children with severe disabilities with an estimated €402 per year per child. At the same time, the organisation and mediation of the service to the customer has been the role of the local government. It can therefore be said that the new regulation better reflects the reality of the situation and improves the situation of children with deep disabilities. In order to make the financing of child care for children with severe and deep disabilities more flexible and to bring it into line with the State Budget Act, the funds provided will be provided through the Support Fund to local authorities, with the obligation to ensure that child care and other social services are organised on the basis of the need for help for children with severe and profound disabilities, which will help to reduce the cost of caring for the family. In this case, the Ministry of Social Affairs has ruled out the possibility of paying benefits because it does not solve the social protection problems of carers, and previous analyses have shown that families of children with disabilities want to receive more and better quality services. The aim of the draft is also to regulate the organisation of the use of a million additional euros from the state budget to support the parents of children with deep disabilities. Support will be ensured by improving access to childcare and other social services that reduce the burden of care. Improving access to services gives parents more opportunities to participate actively in the labour market and supports their daily livelihood. In addition, it should be noted that local authorities have had different positions according to the Ministry of the Interior. Some feel that the service has been overfunded so far, and others that it has been underfunded, which has led to the situation that some local authorities do not spend the money allocated from the state budget, while others lack it. The reason why money is not being spent is the lack of service providers. With funding from the European Social Fund, the country will provide additional services to this target group for a total of EUR 36 million from autumn 2015. This provides an opportunity to provide additional services for each child for a maximum amount of EUR 5 000 per year, although not all children, of course, require such services. It has now enabled the provision of child care and support services to be launched in all areas of Estonia, and the services will be provided by 1600 children in the Circa. When previously complaining about the shortage of service providers, the situation is quite different: in some areas of Estonia there are not enough customers to use these services. The next regulation in this bill deals with the parent's agreement. The family parent replacement home service is provided in Estonia since 2007. When setting up the service, the family parent was expected to live with the children in the replacement home 24 hours a day and 42 days a year to use the help of a third party. According to current law and practice, the replacement home service based on the parental model only operates in a few replacement homes. At the end of 2015, there were 39 family parents in 11 replacement homes (there are 38 replacement homes in total). About half of them provided services with several family parents that are not regulated by law. A substitute home service with a family parent has the advantage of providing a child with a safe and lasting relationship with an adult, which allows for a relationship of affection and a family-like environment necessary for the child's development. In order to ensure better conditions for the creation of family-like living conditions in replacement homes and the wider distribution of family-parent services, the draft regulates the basis for the work of family parents providing replacement home services. The nature of the work of family parents is different, especially due to the unconventional length of working time. The draft establishes a family parent contract to regulate the terms of a contract with a family parent when up to three family parents in one replacement home provide replacement home services. For example, a family parent's contract must include a minimum and maximum period of service in one calendar month and entitles him to leave. The Family Parent Agreement applies to the leave provided for in Section 4 of Chapter 3 of the Employment Contracts Act. A parent's contract shall not be concluded if the area-related workers are employed in shifts and can be concluded with a normal contract of employment. A family parent's contract also applies to a replacement home with a family parent when the family parent provides services at home. Such replacement homes have emerged from the surface of previous care families, in which case there is no employment/subsidiarity ratio. Moreover, it is not possible to measure working and rest periods in this case, and therefore it is only a contract of command that will continue to be appropriate here. The next item is the educational preparation of the family parent. The proposal simplifies the requirements for the education of family parents. He will no longer have to undergo family care training, but will have to complete secondary education. So far, there was a requirement for higher education and further training had to be carried out, the content and purpose of which, however, do not meet the requirements of this activity. Training for the farm worker in a replacement home, consisting of two modules, is still required. The aim of the amendment is to facilitate the finding of family parents and to bring the requirements of the service into line with real needs. There is no need to set too high or expensive expectations, and not all parents with a master's degree are in the normal family. The draft plans to transfer the organisation of national adoptions from county governments to the Child Protection Unit of the Social Insurance Board, which has started work on the basis of the Child Protection Act, which entered into force in January 2016. The new application of STAR will also be implemented, which will include information about adopters, i.e. a database of social services or a data register, which will create transparency in the organisation of adoptions, also being the working environment of child protection workers. This creates the assumption that adoptions are carried out in a uniform manner in all Estonian regions. The adoption will be dealt with by five specialists prepared for this purpose, whose task is to serve families, if necessary, at the premises of the Social Insurance Board of the county centres and certainly at home with the families, in order to carry out the necessary measures for adoption, such as family studies and home visits. The number of national adoptions varies from country to country. If there have been 40% of adoptions in Harju County and 15% in Ida-Viru County, the rest will be distributed among other counties. There are a number of counties where adoptions may not exist for a whole year. This means that the competence of child protection workers in this area is very different and therefore adopters are treated differently. In addition, the queues for adoption have so far been county-based, leading to inequality. National, coordinated adoption arrangements for one agency will better ensure the interests of both the child and the adopter. There are about 100 national adoptions per year, half of which are adoptions to a new family. There are further changes to the draft concerning rehabilitation, aids and special care services. First of all, social rehabilitation. The regulation on compensation for travel and accommodation costs will be moved from law to regulation level in order to ensure greater flexibility in the future to make changes and to take account of people's needs. Second, the aids. The range of persons entitled to claim the obligation to pay is extended to ensure the rights of disabled persons of working age. This is a restoration of the circle of entitled persons, which was in force until this year. A family doctor, a specialist, moving a rehabilitation team from law level to regulation level is also one of the objectives here. The amendment is necessary in order to introduce more flexibility in the future in the need to identify competent persons. A few words about special care. The person receiving special care is obliged to pay his/her own contribution. If the person entitled to the service does not have the money to pay for the own contribution, the missing part of the state budget will be reimbursed. According to the current regulation, a person needs to submit income-related documents of his or her own, which impose unreasonable burdens on a person, as this data can be obtained directly from the State Registers by the Social Insurance Board. After the change, the monthly data will automatically be taken from the Tax and Customs Board register so that the person should not have to prove his or her income when he or she starts or receives the service. The application procedure will also be simplified and in future the customer will be able to submit a joint application both for special care and for the compensation of the missing part of the own contribution. In addition, a person's rental income and maintenance income will no longer be taken into account in determining the customer's own interest in the future. This will ease the customer's payment burden. Reserves will be secured on the basis of a court order for the immediate service of persons who are about to receive a service under a court order. These people are dangerous to themselves, their loved ones or both, and it is important that they be able to provide the service immediately. If there are no reservations, this may hinder the prompt receipt of the service as it is not possible for service providers to maintain their readiness to provide the service. The law is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2017. I hope that the Riigikogu will deal with this bill quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U167	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U168	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! A few hours ago in Question Time, the Minister of Education and Research and I exchanged views on how financing one or another service could take place from, for example, 2020 onwards. If I understood you correctly, at present, with the support of the European Social Fund, we have guaranteed funding for this matter only until 2019. It does not happen now that we are creating a legitimate expectation for the entire group of people who are very in need that they will receive this support, but it may happen that they will no longer receive it in 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U169	Thanks! Surely such services cannot be created in the sense of irresponsiblely, that today we have the European Union's resources for this, and if we no longer have them, then the service will be finished. Services of this kind are certainly needed in the country. Should there be such a situation that some funding opportunities are lost, any government must, by then (in fact, a little before that, it must be made clear in the planning of the national budget strategy) provide the answer to what kind of funds this money comes from. There's definitely no way back. The amount of funding depends on the number of such children.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U170	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The state provides funding to local authorities to provide services to children with severe and deep disabilities. How exactly is that money labeled? Can the municipality also use this money, which is actually intended to provide a particular service, for example to provide childcare services for HEV1 children?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U172	Thanks! I am not a person who comes into contact with this subject every day, but, as I understand it, as the draft says, it should be so that all children with severe and deep disabilities should be able to organise the services of the local government. For those who are excluded from this criterion too, the local authorities will certainly offer services. The question is what is the volume of services and what can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U173	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Mr Vilja Toomas, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Committee, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U174	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report on how this bill has been dealt with in the Social Committee. We have dealt with this draft on three occasions in the Committee on Social Affairs. The first time was on 24 October when we had to decide whether to put a draft on the agenda of the Social Affairs Committee this week, which the government had not even handed over to the Riigikogu at that point. Since there are people working with hearts in the Committee on Social Affairs, we have found that this is a draft that cannot be removed from the agenda for reasons of formality alone. That is also the way we decided, without seeing this bill, to put it on the agenda on Tuesday, 25 October. The next time, a short procedure took place on 25 October, when it was decided in consensus that the draft would be processed by Vilja Toomas and that the draft would be sent to the first reading of the large hall by today, 9 November. Unfortunately, this draft was closed at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on 25 October. We discussed in depth the substance of the draft at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on Monday, 7 November. In addition to the members and officials of the Commission, Margus Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection, Signe Riisalo, Head of Child Welfare Policy at the Department of Children and Families of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Raimo Saadi, Adviser to the Welfare Department. To begin with, Margus Tsahkna and Signe Riisalo briefly presented the draft. This introduction was essentially the same as that given to you today by Minister Pomerants, I will not stop at it. However, I will look at the questions put by the Members of the Commission and the answers received from the Minister and officials. The chairman of the committee, Aivar Kokk, asked how national adoption would take place if its organisation was given the competence of the Social Insurance Board. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that the Child Protection Unit of the Social Insurance Board has four regions, there will be one specialist in each region, but in Tallinn and Harjumaa, where there are most adoptions, there will be two people at work. Helmen Kütt generally supported the transfer of the service to local authorities and noted that the additional funds were intended for specific purposes. This is also an answer to the questions about the flag that this money has been transferred to the local government through the Support Fund. Helmen added that social workers have expressed concerns about internal adoption, which is likely to be less frequent, as going to four areas could be costly and time-consuming for some families. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that the method of work of the Social Insurance Board's child protection unit is mobile, they are also currently advising local governments and have been present in almost all municipalities. Just like that, they're reaching out to the circa 50 families who are now waiting to be adopted within the family. The representative of the Ministry added that family adoption can only be supported in very extreme cases. When a social worker comes into contact with a family with a desire to adopt within the family, he should make sure that this is the best way to protect the rights of the child. Aivar Kokk also asked if there would be no alternative to family parents. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that this alternative would remain, but a new option would emerge. There are totally replacement homes working with a family parent. The problem is that people cannot be reasonably hired or contracted there. Until now, they have been dealt with in law, but it does not really guarantee family parents reasonable social guarantees. To solve this problem and to improve the situation of family parents, which in turn would also provide the prerequisites for finding family parents more easily, a new form of contract has been introduced and regulated. Helmen Küttt also asked if it had been taken into account that there would be another information system where the data could be received if the SKAIS 2 was not completed. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that this was mainly the exchange of data with the Tax and Customs Board register and that the possibility of such exchange of information had been established in the existing SAIS. The existing exchange of information is now legalised in such a way that it can be used as a basis for calculating own shares. You do not need to prove your income separately when submitting your application, as the Social Insurance Board can automatically request information about your income from the Tax and Customs Board. My colleague, Mr Dimitriev, asked about the same question as my colleague, Mr Ammas, today. He wondered what would happen if ESF funding ended in 2020. An official of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that all services intended for disabled children, other than childcare services, would be organised by the local government anyway. Childcare funds are simply provided for free use, i.e. it is not required to provide childcare services, but may also provide other services to the same target group. Currently, the state does not provide money for the care of a disabled child; the provision of this service is the responsibility of the local government under the Pre-school Children's Institution Act. The state also does not provide money for the average disabled child, but the state has so far partially compensated for the care of children with severe and deep disabilities. Nothing will change here, except that next year there will simply be EUR 1 million, which is EUR 2.65 million for next year. The local government receives this money and greater decision-making powers. You can provide any kind of service to this target group for this money. According to the exit strategy, we have planned to ask the state budget for more money for the target group after the ESF funding period ends, i.e. after 2020. We are also critically reviewing all other national and local services and subsidies for the same target group. The aim is to optimise the system in such a way as to maximise the end-user's benefits. Dmitri Dmitriev was still curious about the number of children with severe and deep disabilities who are currently not receiving the service. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that the problem is that service providers are working very hard to find these children. For example, a replacement home provides care for children with severe and deep disabilities, but not all days of the week are customers. It is an activity in itself to bring back to the labour market and social life those parents who have actually been isolated because of their disabled child. The task of society is to give them the opportunity to convince, advise and consult them to enable their children to receive care and to return to the labour market on a part-time or full-time basis. These were, in short, all the questions that arose in the Commission during its first reading. The procedural decisions are as follows: to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 15.00 this week. This was again the place where we inhaled and swallowed once, because we are now putting the Riigikogu in a bit of a disadvantage when, instead of ten working days, which has usually been the time for tabling amendments, we give barely two and a half days. But this was the result of all the activities described. So why don't you tell me if there's a stagnation in the Ministry of Social Affairs or what it is? But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U175	Thank you, dear waitress. You have a question. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You gave an overview of the issues discussed in the Commission. Did you and how much talk in the Commission about this change that is now being made in relation to adoption?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U177	Thank you for your question. Indeed, that question arose. I, too, had the question of what procedures would be taken before adoption, so that this family would be ready for adoption, and that child would also be ready for adoption. The Social Ministry official explained that there are two laws. Firstly, under the Child Welfare Act, parents are deprived of the right to raise this child. There are procedures that are very long and thorough. Quite often this thing ends in court and so on. But the change that we are making with this bill concerns only those families who are waiting for adoption. The amendment means that there will be an all-Estonian order, if you could say so, of those parents who wish to adopt. Until now, families waiting for adoption were in a separate order from one country to another, and the country had no overview of it. In some counties, for example, over the years, there may not have been a single family that adopted a child. Since this is a very sensitive subject and deals with a wide range of sensitive personal data, those who deal with it must have a very large experience, they must have good specialists to make the right decisions. It was therefore decided to change it to the activities of the Social Insurance Board. As I said, there are four regions on Estonia, and there is one specialist in three regions, and two specialists in Harjumaa and Tallinn who, according to the regulations of the Ministry of Social Affairs, carry out operations, go to homes and carry out family studies in the family who wants to adopt the child. So this is a longer and more comprehensive issue. Since these people are specially trained for this, I think that in the future the whole adoption process will be much more professional and will be traumatized by both the child and the family who want to adopt.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U178	Thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 317 be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 317 amendments. a at 15.00 a.m. on 11 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U179	Let's keep going. The seventh item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Border Act 269, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U180	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 June 2016, the Constitutional Commission initiated a draft law amending the State Border Act. I'm going to stop a little bit at what the purpose of the bill is. The aim is to establish a border zone. The establishment of a border zone ensures the effectiveness of border guard activities and allows for a new level of border security. The border strip and the border zone will be the land border areas of the external borders, where smartly and reasonably imposed restrictions guarantee the surveillance and protection of the national borders and the border regime. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we discussed the draft on 25 October. Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Anneli Ott, Jaak Madison, Kalle Muuli, Meelis Mälberg, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Peeter Ernits took part in the debate. There was no Jüri Adams and Mart Nutt. Ms Annika Lauk, Head of the Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of Interior, and Ms Else Källo, Senior Border Management Officer of the Integrated Border Management Office of the Development Department of Janek Mägi and the PBGB, were also present. Mr Mägi explained the draft. The aim of the proposal is to establish a border zone and to clarify in which border areas the PBGB operates while guarding the border and in which area people have to take certain restrictions into account. While the current law uses a wide range of terms, such as 'border countries', 'roads leading to the border', 'area close to the border', etc., the draft states that the border zone is a five-km wide border strip from the border strip to the interior. From now on, all roads leading to this area will be marked with signs referring to the border zone. Therefore, people are aware that they are in the border zone and must observe signs that do not accidentally cross the border. Janek Mägi introduced us on a real map, which could result in the establishment of a border zone. I asked what restrictions and obligations are created by people in the border zone. Janek Mägi replied that, in terms of border surveillance, the most important thing is that if, until now, the PBGB officials had the right to move only on private roads leading to the border, when this change came into force, they would have the opportunity to move on all roads located in the border zone, irrespective of the ownership of the road. The same is true of movement on land. According to the current Government of the Republic regulation, the PBGB officials may only move to border countries, but this concept has remained unclear. Under the proposed amendment, the PPA officials will have the right to move within the border zone in order to carry out their task. Simply put, the current rules on the border zone impose these restrictions and the ppal control possibilities at the level of the Government of the Republic regulation, but the amendment provided for in the draft will lead to the level of this law. Mikhail Stalnukhin asked whether fishermen would have to coordinate with the PBA every time they went to the river, lake or reservoir in the border zone. At the moment, when events take place in Narva, they must be coordinated with the PBGB. What's the bill gonna change? Janek Mägi replied that we are talking about activities that could disrupt the border peace and are specifically linked to the activities of the PBGB. The draft does not concern the orders given by the city. For example, events on Narva Promenade must be coordinated with the city of Narva in particular. Janek Mägi stated that the State Border Act does not regulate the coordination of operations with local authorities, but only with the PBGB. Mikhail Stalnukhin's concern was whether he should always carry a document when he is in the border zone and if the whole city is in the border zone. Is there a requirement to carry a document? Janek Mägi replied that the obligation to carry a document was not derived from the law. Estonia is an e-state where it is possible to identify all citizens without a document if it is necessary. In general, there is no obligation to carry a document in Estonia and this obligation does not follow from this bill either. As regards the installation of technology in the State Border Act, § 7 of the present State Border Act regulates. We had a substantive discussion, Janek Mägi answered all the questions. What were the procedural decisions? It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 9 November (this was a consensual decision, by Kalle Laane, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Anneli Ott, Jaak Madison, Kalle Muuli, Meelis Mälberg and Mikhail Stalnukhin), that the first reading be closed (by 6, against 1 and impartially 1, by Kalle Laane, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Jaak Madison, Kalle Muuli and Meelis Mälberg, by Mikhail Stalnukhin and by Anneli Ott), that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. on 23 November at 17.15 (this was also a consensual decision), and that Mr Kalle Laanet (also a consensual decision) was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U181	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U182	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, This draft concerns only the land border. But how is this thing going to happen by the sea? Is there a zone?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U183	Thank you for your question. This concerns both land borders and land bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U184	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U185	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have two small remarks. Paragraph 61 'Border zone': 'The border zone is established at the land border of the external border for the purpose of guarding and protecting the national border and ensuring the border regime. ' What does that mean to protect? Secondly, point 3: 'The police have the right to install signs and symbols to mark the border zone. ' About the police border zone? Explain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U186	The word 'protection' means, above all, preventive actions, so that our borders are not violated and people who do not have the right to do so do not enter our Estonian country. The second question concerned why the police were making signs, as I understand it. We have the Police and Border Guard Board, and a common word or common denominator 'police officer' is used for employees.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U187	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You spoke very nicely about the signs that warn people that they have entered the border zone. Is it also important to coordinate the local government when installing these signs and warnings, or is this a purely competent decision of the PBGB?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U189	I consider it natural that this is done in cooperation with the local government. Above all, cooperation with local authorities is needed to ensure that local authorities know where some signs come from and for what purpose they will be installed. Cooperation in this key is extremely important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U190	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 269. I shall set the deadline for the submission of 269 amendments. November 23, 5.15 p.m. We are done dealing with the seventh item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U191	Let's keep going. The first reading of the bill to amend the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment of the Speaker's Office, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U192	Hello! Today makes you drink. [[Drinks water.]] Now the Water Act. It is a right-hand law, as you might think, to amend the Water Act. Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the Water Act prepared at the Ministry of the Environment. The reason for this draft is that the European Commission has not accepted the time limits for the application of fertilisers introduced by the amendments to the Water Act, which entered into force at the beginning of this year, as part of the infringement procedure initiated. According to the European Commission, not all of the amendments made met the conditions of the infringement procedure, i.e. the requirements set out in the Water Act as such, do not, in the Commission's view, ensure adequate water protection against pollution from agriculture. Therefore, on the basis of the Commission's comments, the Water Act will be amended once again. The Commission has also received a reply letter with Estonian views and proposals on the infringement procedure. Feedback and the Commission's opinion have not yet been received. The draft has been developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Affairs and farmers. The main changes to the agricultural provisions compared to the current law are as follows: The time limits for the application of mineral fertilisers and manure will start earlier in the autumn, the information to be included in the farm book will be specified and farmers will have to draw up a fertilisation plan. Thus, first, the amendments to the Water Act, which came into force at the beginning of this year, introduced a transitional restriction on the application of mineral nitrogen fertilisers and liquid manure from 2023. They shall not be spread from 1 November to 20 March. The restriction is currently in force from 1 December to 20 March. The Commission did not accept such a transitional period, finding in its reasoned opinion that Estonia did not have sufficient arguments to establish such a long transitional period. The draft provides for a gradual transitional period for the application of liquid manure in the autumn. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, a withdrawal period from 20 September to 20 March shall be introduced for the application of liquid manure. As a second amendment, producers will also be required to record the quantities of harvests harvested in the field book. They are also noted by farmers today, but this is not an obligation. As a third significant change, those using 100 hectares of arable land and using nitrogen-containing fertilisers must draw up a fertilisation plan. The obligation is linked to the principle of a balanced use of nitrogen fertilisers as set out in the Nitrates Directive, which aims to avoid excessive nitrogen fertiliser use and over-fertilisation. From 2019 this requirement will extend to producers using at least 50 hectares of arable land. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has submitted a small addition to the deadline for submitting an application for building permits for buildings not permanently connected to shore in public water bodies. The amendment provides additional time for persons who have a building that is not permanently connected to shore in a public water body, which has been built before 1 January 2010 or for which consent has been given before 1 July 2015 to burden it with a cable line, so that they can apply for an appropriate building permit for the building. The current deadline is the end of this year, the new deadline is 31 December 2019. If the building does not have a building permit, the building will become an essential part of the public water body and the ownership will be transferred to the State. In order to prevent the transfer of ownership of such buildings to the State, it is reasonable to grant an additional transitional period. The size of such objects in Estonia is 50. This refers to cables, beacons and sewerage and water pipes, which may also be at the disposal of a number of state-owned companies and which relate, for example, to the crossing of rivers and to the inter-island. Ultimately, the adoption of the draft act as a law should lead to a reduction in the quantity of nitrates from agriculture, which is particularly linked to the spreading of late autumn fertiliser, when plants that use this fertiliser no longer grow and absorb nutrients. On the other hand, high levels of autumn rainfall contribute to the leaching of nutrients, especially nitrogen compounds. In addition to the fact that environmental aspects have been taken into account more effectively, the changes proposed in the draft will allow a farmer to plan for a more sustainable and balanced use of fertilisers, which is also more economically advantageous to the producer himself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U193	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U194	The subject has also been dealt with very thoroughly today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U195	I guess so. Please report to Meelis Mälberg, Member of the Environment Committee of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U196	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Water Act 316 on 17 October 2016. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, and Hendrik Põldoja, Specialist in the Water Department were invited to the meeting of the Environment Committee on 24 October. The reasons why the draft was initiated, and the Minister now gave a very thorough overview of the content of the draft, which I will not rephrase. There was a brief debate in the Committee on the Environment and we learned that this issue has been negotiated with farmers. Although we are obviously adopting this law, this does not mean that the Commission can finally be satisfied with our amendments. In theory, there is also a possibility that we will have to discuss these matters again, but hopefully not. I will take this opportunity to say that, before the big summer vacation, we also discussed the Water Act in this Chamber and then the concerns of livestock farmers about composting free-range livestock manure remained. These questions have not been addressed in this draft, but the Ministry has developed amendments. In the Committee on the Environment, we intend to discuss these proposals with interested parties. Our plan is that the amendments will be drafted in the Committee on the Environment before the second reading. At its meeting on 24 October, the Committee on the Environment took the following decisions: appoint 316 members of the Committee on the Environment, Meelis Mälberg, to propose that 316 drafts be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 9 November 2016, to propose to close the first reading of the draft 316 and to propose that the deadline for submitting 316 amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 23 November 2016. All these decisions were taken by the Commission in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U197	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 316. I will set the deadline for the submission of 316 amendments, including 23 November at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U198	The next item is the first reading of Bill 264 of Amendment to the Law on district heating initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure of the Speaker's Board, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government has submitted to you a draft amendment to the Law on district heating, which has been developed in cooperation with the Competition Board and the Estonian Power Plants and District heating Association, which brings together Estonian district heating companies. The aim of the draft is to direct heat companies to use more stable, environmentally friendly and cheaper fuels. This will ensure a price that is as favourable and stable as possible to the consumer, together with an efficient heat supply. The changes have a significant impact on consumers, as the share of district heating in heat consumption in Estonia is the largest in the European Union, reaching 70%. The unstable price of fossil fuels continues to cause very high prices of district heating. However, reducing the price of district heating requires large-scale investments, for which the investor needs long-term and stable regulation. If an investor is able to guarantee a significantly more favourable price for district heating for the consumer, the legislative amendment will allow greater returns to be obtained from the investment. A new approach is the obligation to carry out a background check of a heat company operating in larger network areas. According to the draft, the buyer of a boiler house or heat pipeline located in an area with an annual sales volume of more than 50 gigawatt-hours must undergo ex ante verification by the Ministry of Interior from the point of view of the internal security of the State. The regions with annual sales volumes of over 50 gigawatts are the connected network area of Tallinn, Narva, Tartu, Ahtme-Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve and the network area of Sillamäe, Pärnu, Viljandi and Jamejala, Kuressaare, Võru, Haapsalu and Paide. The change contributes to increasing energy security. In addition, the law introduces more fundamental regulatory principles, which have so far been reflected in the methodology of the Competition Authority. This will ensure greater legal certainty for the consumer and the heat company. Such principles include, for example, the principles for forecasting sales volumes, a list of types of costs to be included in the marginal price and a harmonised basis for calculating the reasonable return. One change is the price of heat consisting of two components. The draft has been drawn up on the basis of Finnish practice, which enables the consumer to sell heat on the basis of a two-component price. The two-component price can solve the problem that housing associations in difficulty usually pay for the services they owe during the heating period in the summer out-of-heat period. The two-component price allows heating costs to be spread over the whole calendar year. In this case, the heat company shall allocate the fixed costs (investment costs, operating costs, etc.) for the production and distribution of heat and the variable costs (fuel and electricity costs) for the production and distribution of heat to a separate price. Thus, the consumer would pay a lower amount during the heating period and would cover the costs of using district heating systems during low energy consumption. By 31 December 2017 at the latest, the draft will oblige local authorities whose district heating area is operated by a heat undertaking with a production capacity of less than 50 gigawatts or which wish to establish or modify a district heating area to draw up a decision on the planning of the development of the thermal economy, which will provide for a district heating network area for a period of at least 10 years. The analysis on which the decision is based is supported by the State up to 90%. The support measure is coordinated by the Environmental Investment Centre. Please support the Commission's decision to close the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U200	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I would like a presentation by Jaanus Marrand, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Law on district heating 264 on Monday 17 October. a. Minister Kristen Michal has been invited to the meeting of the Commission, who has also just presented the content of the draft, Ando Leppiman, Deputy Secretary of State for Energy and Construction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Rein Vaks, expert at the Department of Energy. Ministerial Adviser Kätlin Atonen also participated. Mr Michal, Mr Leppiman and Mr Vaks presented the content of the draft and answered questions put by the members of the Commission. The Commission had also received opinions from a number of organisations. Be mentioned here by the Estonian Power Stations and District heating Association, Eesti Energia AS and the Estonian Turbali, who had proposed that the regulation of the reference price developed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications be included in the draft Act amending the Law on district heating, which was also one of the issues at the meeting of the Commission. In support of the regulation of the reference price, the Competition Authority had also sent a letter to the Commission. Minister Kristen Michal explained that the regulation of the reference price was not included in the government's draft, as the government held an opinion that regulation in this form should not be included in the draft. During the Commission's hearing, it became clear that there may be greater clarity in the current situation and it would be reasonable to bring back the regulation of the reference price in the future procedure of the draft. At the meeting of the Commission, it was decided (all decisions were taken by consensus) to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 9 November 2016, to propose that the first reading be closed and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 23 November at 17.00. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U202	Thank you, dear waitress. You don't have any questions. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 264. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 264 amendments, including on 23 November at 17:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U203	Today's 10th item is the first reading of the draft law amending traffic law, state fees and product conformity law 281 initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the Speaker's Board!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The government has submitted a bill to you to amend the Traffic Act, the State Tax Act and the Product Compliance Act. The changes are mainly due to changes in European Union law aimed at increasing road safety and legal clarity for road users. Estonian law implements those European Union regulations which relate in particular to the type-approval of category L mopeds, motorcycles and tractors and the recording equipment. The Road Administration shall be granted the rights and obligations of the market surveillance authority. At present, the Road Administration checks that the products relating to vehicles it has approved comply with the requirements. The amendments allow the Public Road Administration to verify that all products made available to the public comply with the requirements relating to vehicles. The restriction may be applied if the structural elements of the vehicle are defective, for example, the bolts used for fixing the wheels are of poor material and there is a risk of accident. The requirements for type-approval become simpler. Type-approval has been harmonised across Europe. The Road Administration has the right not to allow vehicles of a type approved but whose components may pose a risk to life, health or the environment. The arrangements for recording equipment in road transport will be changed. The new Traffic Act regulates more specifically the obligations of the driver of a vehicle with recording equipment to keep records of driving and rest periods and the requirements for applying for, issuing and withdrawing a tachograph card. The amendments will avoid conflicts of interest so that the driver or company who follows driving and rest periods cannot be itself the controller of the digital tachograph. A comparison can be made with a situation where the technical requirements checker can control his own car. Measures are also foreseen to reduce the misuse of the driver's driver's card. To this end, the driver will be refused a new driver card within one month if the previous driver card has been revoked because it was used by another person. The amendment considers users of motorized motion aids to be pedestrians, provided that their speed does not exceed 20 kilometres per hour. Thus, a new law on pedestrian traffic will apply to balance-mobile or other mobility aids. The current Traffic Act does not specify requirements for aids for the movement of balance or persons with reduced mobility. Since both are driven by an electric motor, they could have been considered a motor vehicle and were not allowed to drive on the sidewalks, for example. Rather, such vehicles are mobility aids than independent vehicles in the classic sense. Please support the changes made and the Commission's proposal to conclude the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U205	Thank you, Minister. You don't have any questions. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U206	Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The discussion of the draft law amending the Traffic Act, the State Fees Act and the Product Compliance Act 281 before being sent to the first reading was held on Monday 17 October in the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. Minister Kristen Michal and Head of Transport and Traffic Services of the Road and Rail Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Sander Salmu presented the content of the draft and answered the questions. The questions were about the regulation of aids for the movement of balance-mobility and persons with reduced mobility and the classification of motor water taxis providing services to tourists in the Old Town of Tallinn. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 9 November, to propose that the first reading be closed and to propose that ten working days be set by which amendments should be tabled. All these decisions were consensual. That's all there is to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U207	Thank you, dear waitress. You have a question. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U208	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Does the draft that we are dealing with now also have any bearing on the drafts on the collaborative economy that you have presented to us in the past? What about this draft relating to the collaborative economy
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U209	Thank you very much, Honourable Asker. This draft does not deal with this. But on Monday and Tuesday, perhaps yesterday and the day before yesterday, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft law amending the Public Transport Act, which first regulates the sharing economy in Estonia as such and introduces the term 'conform carriage'. We made it pretty far in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Let's just say that we'll probably be ready to come up with this bill for second reading in this hall in the coming weeks. I very much hope that this bill will be passed as a law this year to regulate the situation that already exists. There's no point in denying it. Similarly, there is no point in pushing the collaborative economy into such a framework that there are too many restrictions on entering it. So I hope that the Free Party, or at least you personally, at both second and third reading, will support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U210	Thank you. No further questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 281. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 281 amendments, including on 23 November at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U211	Let's go to the last item on the agenda today. The first reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure of the Speaker's Board, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U212	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a new regulation of the support scheme for electricity generation from renewable energy sources and in high-efficiency cogeneration, which is long wanted and awaited. Two of the most important changes in the draft are the possibility to start selling renewable energy statistics to other EU countries and the payment of support on a market-based basis in order to lessen the burden on consumers. The objective is to link the support measure to the national renewable energy and efficient cogeneration targets. If the production of existing producers is not sufficient to achieve the objective of renewable energy sources or electricity produced in an efficient cogeneration mode, the Government of the Republic shall organise a less bid for additional production capacity. This will ensure strong competition in the production of renewable electricity. By linking the payment of support from renewable energy sources to the objective of generating electricity, the support scheme will become less burdensome for the consumer. Estonia has a renewable electricity target for 2020. By then 17,6% of the electricity consumed will have to be produced from renewable energy sources. After 2020, the objectives of producing electricity from renewable energy sources and changes to the principles of achieving them will be confirmed by the Riigikogu by a decision by 31 December 2019 at the latest. The proposal brings the support measures into line with the State aid criteria established by the European Commission. Under the current system, the producer receives aid for electricity produced from a renewable source in addition to the market price of electricity of EUR 53,7 per megawatt-hour. The disadvantage of the current scheme is the independence from the market price and the fact that the scheme is not linked to the objective of the State renewable electricity. For example, support under the current support system is limited to wind-only electricity producers, aid is granted if the annual amount of electricity produced from wind is up to 600 gigawatt-hours. For other technologies, there is no limit to receiving support for water, biomass, sun. Where the production plant complies with the requirements, the manufacturer shall be entitled to appropriate support from the transmission system operator, even if the national target has long been met. In the light of the projects in progress, a transitional period until 2018 will be introduced for wind power producers and production equipment with a capacity of less than 15 kilovolts until 2020. A transitional period is necessary in order not to undermine the legitimate expectations of developers and investors who have already started to prepare for the construction of production equipment. In addition, the draft establishes cooperation mechanisms for the development of renewable energy production, i.e. the principles of statistical trade. Many Member States of the European Union are struggling to meet the renewable energy target. The amendment will allow Estonia's renewable energy potential to be harnessed to meet the renewable energy targets of other Member States. Electricity produced in the framework of statistics trade improves the security of electricity supply in Estonia, without burdening Estonian consumers. The necessary support for the production of renewable energy will be paid by the Member State wishing to buy renewable energy statistics from Estonia. Estonia's victory in participating in statistics trade is new jobs in the forestry sector and economic recovery. Up to 2,300 new jobs can be created if the trade in statistics is successfully launched. This means the added value of tens of millions of euros in the Estonian economy. The potential for statistical trade is 2.5-3 terawatt-hours. The producer involved in the statistical trade is revealed by a less bid, the results of which must be confirmed by the Government of the Republic in advance to assess the impact of the potential transaction on the Estonian forest and timber sectors. The draft has been drawn up in close cooperation with renewable energy producers. The principles set out in the draft call for changes to the existing aid scheme's State aid authorisation. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has prepared an application to amend the State aid decision and intends to send it to the European Commission as soon as possible. I ask for support for the Commission's decision and for the first reading to be completed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U213	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U214	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! The question has sounded in many forms in this Chamber before, but it is important to me. We have recently ratified the Paris climate agreement and so on. The ideological starting point for all of them is to leave this world to the next generations, at least as much as it is now. This means that all parties will do their best to make more efficient use of renewable energy, etc. Against this background, the old question of the ethical nature of statistics trade still arises. Would you like to comment on that? Are we not taking an ethically deplorable step in this selfish, attempt to strengthen the economy of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U215	Thank you. Absolutely not. Let's take a look at this Paris climate deal. The question, as you said, is about this before. Europe's current environmental standards and general directions have always been stricter than those achieved in Paris. Estonia has also followed them. In a situation where Estonia has gone further with its activities, I think, this trade in statistics is in no way problematic, as a mechanism will be created for this. I think rather, looking at the Estonian economy as a whole, that if we are able to use more biomass, there will not only be income from statistics trade, but there will also be income from forestry. Money remains in the Estonian forest sector, jobs are created in Estonia. I've mentioned the power we can sell at 2.5 or even three sharps-hours. Let's start with a sharp-hour, that's about a million cubic metres of wood. As the forestry development plan says, a million cubic metres of wood represents about 2,300 new jobs. If you look at the regions, you can see that it all starts in the Virumaa region, where there is a clear need for it. So I am saying that, if there is a mechanism in Europe, this mechanism will be created, this possibility between European countries will not be considered unethical. I think it would be very ridiculous if we missed the opportunity to help our economies and foresters and create jobs in forestry. After all, Estonia will win. I've been upset rather because we've had to spend three or four months in government on this bill because of some things I don't understand. But I'm not gonna complain about partners here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U216	Thank you, Minister. However, there are still questions. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U217	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I did not understand whether this 53th and decimal support would continue, as it has been before, or whether there would be some changes, especially when our renewable energy production targets have been met. Is it that specific, or is it getting smaller? This is quite a support and a burden on consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U218	I say at the outset, a little bit of simplification, that the new scheme will apply provided that we send the European Commission an overview of it and the European Commission agrees. This is designed to maintain a support rate of EUR 53,7 per megawatt-hour for existing production equipment until 2018, for equipment with a capacity of less than 15 kilovolts until 2020 and for wind power producers a transitional period until 2020. To put it quite simply: the amount of this aid will gradually decrease, given the investments made by existing producers and the principle of legal certainty. In the future, yes, you're right, this thing will go market-based. Let us say, in a very simple way, that the government is looking at what these objectives are, how these objectives are to be met and whether the existing ones are sufficient, and then it is organising a less bid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U219	Thank you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is, I hear, preparing a new renewable energy action plan. How far are you with this, and what stage is this job in anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U221	The development plan for the energy economy went to the government for discussion, which I think should be in Parliament. I do not know if this has already been discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Kalle Palling is in this room, he looks a little surprised, so he hasn't discussed it yet. Anyway, its drafts should already exist and this scheme has been discussed several times in the government. We have actually made it a priority to move forward as quickly as possible with the Electricity Market Act, although, let us say, both were working in parallel and taking account of each other. This work was relatively laborious. We have a lot of energy interests in the government. On the social side too, I can assure you, there is, for some reason, a very high energy interest and there is a very high interest on the justice side. It's probably just an exciting subject, you know, when you're a kid, you don't play with electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U222	Thank you, Minister. Your work is done today, no further questions. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U223	Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Electricity Market Act 290 was discussed by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 25 October. Minister Kristen Michal, Deputy Chancellor of Energy and Construction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Ando Leppiman, and Expert of the Department of Energy Rein Vaks gave an overview of the contents of the draft and answered questions. The Minister pointed out that the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act lays down market-based rules for the procurement of renewable energy and statistics trade. Statistics trade is expected to generate an estimated annual export income of tens of, but not hundreds of, millions of euros and some 2,300 new jobs in the forestry sector. A brief discussion was held, questions were asked and answered. The main questions were questions about the potential income from statistical trade. The people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications gave exhaustive answers and described the future of statistics trade as a repeat of Estonia's history of success in view of the sale of AAU units. At that time, energy interested parties asked how the trade in statistics could affect, for example, the business plans of pellet producers. Ando Leppiman replied that since pellet producers and statistics trade are carried out in different sectors, their plans should not be affected in any way. No tree has ever remained in the oven, both chips and pellets will burn up in the oven. So the product is ultimately energy, whether it comes from chips or pellets. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to propose that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 9 November, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 23 November. a. All decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-09_U224	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 290. I will set the deadline for the submission of 290 amendments. November 23, 2005 at 5 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is over and the session is closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.14 p.m.
