ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the second Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to report an inquiry to Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. It has been signed by a dozen members of the Central Party Group. In fact, the destruction of our rural territory continues, as you all know very well, without me referring to it. While we have so far talked about the mass closure of schools and the closure of post offices in order to privatise the Estonian Post, which is now sweetly renamed Omniva, now the sequel has come to the closure of medical posts in the country. Well, it's still going on. People cannot go to a doctor, they must go to Tartu or Tallinn. In particular, we are talking about two clinics in my constituency. One is Tsirgulina, which is in the municipality of Tõlliste in Valgamaa, and the other is a doctor's station in Varstu rural municipality in Võrumaa. They're both shut down. People are in distress, hundreds of signatures have been collected, but in Estonia, as we know, no decision-makers are affected. We thought we were still trying to wake up the minister a little bit. Perhaps he will tell us about the purpose of taking medical care away from people in Estonia, which should be free of charge and accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U3	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U4	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! I am pleased and honoured to present an inquiry on behalf of the seven members of the Free Party to the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. The inquiry concerns vocational training and focuses in particular on vocational and vocational training provided by our vocational training institutions. The question is very substantive. On the one hand, we have a lifelong learning strategy and it is very clear from the VET programme that adult learning must be organised in our VET institutions. However, the reality shows that the number of national training orders in VET institutions is decreasing. There are problems here, there are questions here. We have basically formalised all these questions into seven issues and we hope that, as a result of the questioning, we will all have a clearer picture of how the teaching of adults, including those with a lower level of education, is currently taking place in vocational training institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U5	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U6	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an unpleasant feeling that I'm going to have to pass on the question I have. This question is about Sony's headphones at 1RNC. It's 300 euros worth of headphones that keep the noise going. And the questioning also speaks of hiking boots that cost 190 euros or something. What's so weird about these things? It wouldn't be weird if they hadn't been bought with their professional credit card by the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, Elmar Vaher. We've been handed over statements of bills, we've also been handed over a statement of expenditure. The person who had to prove this cost statement has now been fired from the Police and Border Guard Board because he refused to throw it. And we have a lot of questions. Why does the head of the Police and Border Guard Board need headphones like this? Why does he need hiking boots when they're already in his gear? The inquiry is addressed to Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, under whom the PBA operates. We look forward to answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U7	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted three inquiries and the Bureau processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, please, the presence check! 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U8	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have three items on the agenda. The first is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act 121 initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Viktor Vassilyev, member of the Riigikogu, will be a rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, let us focus on the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U9	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft has been drawn up by the members of the Estonian Centre Party Group and its content is, in fact, well known and understandable to you. So I wouldn't be able to explain it for a long time, but this explanation is definitely needed by 360000 people who are receiving our pension and who are monitoring the procedure for this bill. They are very concerned about the problem being addressed, and they are certainly interested in a positive solution to it. In fact, there is a procedure in Estonia for the reimbursement of dental care for persons under 19 years of age. It's as if they're supposed to have good teeth when they walk into their own lives. Then a lot of empty land comes along, and pensioners are allowed to order prostheses in their mouths at the expense of the health insurance fund. According to the Act, the cost of protégés is reimbursed to insured persons over 63 years of age, old-age pensioners and beneficiaries of disability pensions for a period of three years of EUR 255.65. Unfortunately, life doesn't always go according to development plans, and for some reason people try to patch their teeth for their money, keep their teeth in order. At present, it is a strange situation that many people aged 63 years and over still have teeth in their mouths; they do not need dentures as much as repairing existing teeth. The fact is that when a young person sometimes needs a seal for his teeth, over 60 years of age often require a more expensive dental treatment with root filling, exchange of crowns, etc. It all costs not tens, but sometimes hundreds of euros. In order to allow older people and beneficiaries of disability pensions to have their teeth repaired and not to be forced to purchase cheap plastic prosthesis after excavation of roots, this draft has been drawn up. Its text is rather short. § 1 of the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act is called 'amendment of the Ravi Insurance Act'. This section states that the Health Insurance Act is amended as follows: § 63 (3) is amended and worded as follows: And now a rather short text follows: 'The Health Insurance Fund will compensate the person who has been granted a disability pension or old-age pension under the State Pension Insurance Act and the insured person aged over 63 once every three years for the amount paid for dental prostheses and dental care at the rate and in accordance with the rules laid down by the Minister responsible for the field. 'And § 2 of the Bill is 'Entry into force of the Law': 'This Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2017. ' So this means that some of the EUR 255,65 that has so far been allocated to the acquisition of prosthetics can be used in the future to repair existing teeth. It is absolutely understandable to all that a person's teeth depend not only on the extent of his brilliant smile but also on his health. In the animal kingdom, when the teeth disappear, the animal simply dies. In the old days, when the Gypsies sold the horse, the master always looked the horse in the mouth, and according to his teeth, he determined old age or youth. But man isn't an animal and he doesn't have to die if he can't pay for dental care. The state could take care of it, all the more so because there is money for teeth. It's just a question of how to share it and how to use it. There really is no particular mystery here, and no very big restructuring is needed. The draft has, of course, also been read by the employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs failed to coordinate the draft. He doesn't agree with the bill. There are no substantive objections. The only objection is that according to the programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2015 to 2019 it is foreseen that the Ministry of Social Affairs will submit a similar draft in April 2016. However, this requires the Health Insurance Fund to work through the issue and to draw up proposals on how the payment of this benefit can be resolved in a comprehensive manner. The Health Insurance Fund has had this assignment a long time ago. A number of calculations have been made over the year, but no further progress has been made, as the Health Insurance Fund currently has many other problems. The queues are increasing, there is no money available, the five-year financial forecast prepared by the Health Insurance Fund was negative. It was ordered to go zero, and it was a huge cost squeeze. In general, the Health Insurance Fund's priorities are to alleviate other problems. If we adopt this law with you, it will give a strong signal to the Health Insurance Fund that there is a law and now the calculations made must be formalised and a new procedure introduced. And then it's okay. Besides everything else, the Centre Party has made this bill very easy to eat and digest for the coalition because you have teeth for it. After all, the draft states that the compensation will take place at the rate, under the conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We adopt the framework law, we grant permission to use the money for prosthetic benefits to pay for dental care, but how much that money is paid and how, in order to decide on it, it is not necessary to convene the Riigikogu and discuss the matter in the large hall. It is imposed by the Minister, which means that if in some years something changes, I do not know whether the prices of dental care services or eventually the long-awaited economic growth will come and may increase these amounts, then these adjustments will simply be made by the Minister in his regulation. In my opinion, many Estonian laws could be just as simple as that, but they do not need to include exact figures and agreed amounts. It could be that there is a framework law and a minister as a responsible high-ranking official who has subordinates, who can compute and file papers, determines how things work and how much they cost. So 360000 people are waiting for what will be done by the Riigikogu to do something very simple, very understandable and to change the quality of life of very many people. I'm sure you know there's no more pain than toothache. Right now, there's a bill in front of us that relieves people of toothache. This draft could enter into force on 1 January 2017 and I would ask for its support. I believe that the Riigikogu will make this necessary decision for many Estonians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U10	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This is a commendable draft, in which the proposed amendment is also intended to be implemented by the coalition. But I want to draw attention once again to one thing that we have also talked about in the Commission. In fact, the draft law provides for support for pensioners in incapacity for work. But this year's work capacity reform will be launched, which will gradually make it possible for inability-to-work pensioners to become partially or partially disabled. In this regard, I have the question whether these people have not been taken into account in this draft law. How do you look at it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U12	Thank you! According to the draft, dental care for so-called prosthetic allowance will be received not only by beneficiaries of old-age pension and other insured persons over 63 years of age, but also by pensioners. We cannot now predict how much the number of all these people will increase or decrease once they change. However, in view of future developments, we have stated in the draft law that the rates, conditions and procedures of dental care benefit will be determined by a decree of the Minister responsible for the field. We don't know these numbers right now. But if there are numbers, I believe that the Minister has no problem in giving his officials the task of doing a few simple arithmetical adjustments, and that is the amount they need. So there's no big change. But then, of course, it is up to the Minister to make sure that all those who are entitled to such compensation under the new rules are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U13	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U14	Thank you! Dear waitress, My question is quite simple: why have you placed the bar so low? You are only talking about the elderly, you are talking about people entering the labour market, perhaps because of the reform of working capacity, but it is actually known that the government has a new dental reimbursement scheme in preparation, according to which all people, not just the elderly, would receive this benefit. Once again, why have you thought so small?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U15	Good questioner! We think big, but we have to start with small steps. If there is a long way to go, you must first take the first step. And the government has certainly thought that people have teeth, and probably also members of the government know how many of them have to have anatomically. Of course, in real life there are considerably fewer in humans than there are in the anatomy book. But we gotta get started somewhere. We have heard and talked here in the Riigikogu about the catastrophic state of the teeth of the Estonian population. Unfortunately, I have not seen any research comparing the average number of teeth of, for example, German, French and Estonian. But by looking around the street, Maxima shop and public transport, the people of Estonia do not have the courage to smile very much; there is nothing to be happy about. The condition of our teeth is very poor. But you gotta start somewhere. We are realists, and we understand very well that if we put it in writing right now, we will have to fix our teeth for the money of the Health Insurance Fund, i.e. at the expense of the taxpayer, not at the expense of the taxpayer. That is how we dealt with the most vulnerable population group. The people you're talking about, they're supposed to be working and making money. At the same time, it is known that the prices of dental care in Estonia are more or less the same as in other countries of the European Union, and given that the wage difference in Estonia and Germany, for example, is very large, it is clear that it is not easy for Estonians to fix their teeth. But the guys at work can do it somehow. As I noted at the beginning of my presentation, according to the concept, a young person aged 19 is expected to have good teeth, but by the age of 63 they are no longer available and the prostheses must be put in his mouth. However, able-to-work people have been able to invest so much in their teeth that when they retire, total prosthetics are usually not needed, but existing teeth still need to be repaired. So we start with the most vulnerable social group, just as it is appropriate for a country to protect the weakest link. It is Banal, of course, to repeat that the strength of the chain depends on the weakest link, and we have the weakest pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U16	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U17	Thank you, dear waitress. Your answer was very long and flowing, you sound like everything. But that does not change the fact that your draft is an extremely unpretentious step. I repeat once again that the Government Union is preparing a draft which states very clearly when the innovation will take place and how much dental benefit will be paid. So please respond briefly, but specifically, why still so unpretentiously. And aren't you really familiar with the plans of other drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U18	Good questioner! There are no such arrangements that would force the speaker to respond very briefly. And that's why I'm answering so that it's understandable not so much for you because you understand everything as for those people who watch the broadcast or read the verbatim. Like I said, a lot of people are interested this time. The government could have taken a decision many years ago to compensate young people and those who are able to work for dental care, but so far it has not done so. In this case, we're trying to do something. We made this bill, which forces both the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs a little bit. That's one. We're doing our part, doing what we can to push the coalition a little bit. And still in the right direction, right? You can't argue with that. In this case, the interests of the opposition and of the coalition are the same. We have 360,000 pensioners, many of whom would like to repair their teeth. Secondly, if we adopt this law now, will it prevent the Government of the Republic from developing complex dental procedures? No, I won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U19	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U20	Thank you. Good questioner! My question is based on the question of the previous questioner in the ranks of the Social Democrats. Surely our grip has not been tight. In addition to the draft we are discussing today, which aims to give older people the opportunity to also treat their teeth for prosthetic money, we have repeatedly had a bill in place for all people to receive dental benefits. But can you tell me why, in time, the dental benefit paid to everyone was lost? It was small, 300 kroons, but it was lost by a government of Social Democrats, Reform Party and IRL. They said they'd give it back, but so far it hasn't been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U21	Thank you, good questioner! Why the government decided to save on people's teeth, I can't figure it out. However, it may be expected that savings will be made where savings can be made. Apparently, senior public officials and members of the Riigikogu do not have problems with the maintenance of their teeth; income allows even 42 new teeth to be put in their mouths. And who cares about a stranger's toothache? That's what's saved up, which isn't pretty at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U22	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I now ask this question: do you have any adjustments to the fact that when the government decided in its own time to abolish dental care benefits, how much damage did this cause to the health of Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U24	I don't have any such shit. It is not possible to break down the damage caused by the lack of teeth. Indigestion causes digestive problems and many serious diseases associated with metabolism. Diseases such as gastritis, stomach ulcer, etc. occur. What it costs to heal these diseases is impossible to collapse. And if you add more lost working days, pay-out incapacity benefits, we can raise very large amounts of damage. And consideration should also be given to factors such as feelings of shame and inferiority caused by lack of teeth when a person cannot smile. And, of course, toothache. The pain is not measurable in money. Pharmacists claim that their best seller is the one most sold with painkillers and anti-inflammatory drugs, which are mostly ibuprofen-based. Many people who buy them suffer from toothache. When someone has a little interest in surfing the Internet, they see all sorts of strange suggestions given to each other by people who can't find the money to go to a dentist. There are disgusting movie clips about how teeth are pulled out with blacksmiths, the battery acid in the toothhole is dripped, and there are other strange things being done during World War II that people are forced to do for the simple reason that dental care is not compensated and there is no money left for it. But in fact, the cost of the bill before you today is not at all high. In 2014, the average amount of money paid for prosthetic benefits was EUR 184.25 per beneficiary. But it is set at EUR 255.65, so some have not been taken out. The sum of the outstanding amount, if directed to dental care for pensioners, would be just EUR 2.8 million. Just 2.8 million euros! When the ministry's employees got that amount mentioned, the main objection was that yes, allocate money to people, and that's why they're gonna fix their teeth. Well, I think that's completely anti-human logic! You might as well say you pay them more pensions, and they buy themselves warm winter boots, or pay people a higher salary, then maybe they'll start eating more. In 2014 they actually needed so much dental care that it would cost EUR 8.3 million or a little more. We did a third calculation, too. To sum up all the people affected by this bill, and if they all need dental care, whether they need dental care or not, would pay out dental care benefits, which would be a fantastic situation, it would cost EUR 11.1 million. If there are hundreds of millions of euros in the cashier's unallocated income and reserves, even this maximum of 11.1 million is a theoretical maximum. There would be no art in planning the 2017 budget, both in the health insurance budget and in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U25	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This bill really concerns a relatively large group, but it is still the top of the iceberg. In fact, this is only part of a major problem, as working age also faces similar difficulties in accessing dental care services. Did you consider the possibility of including the so-called adult, working-age people in the bill and, if you were considering it, how seriously? The other half of the question is this. You are also a member of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund, which means that it is very likely that the Council has discussed the possibility of compensating for part of the cost of dental care for working-age people in the future. Has there been any discussion about this and, if so, where have they come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U27	You know, to be honest, I would not have dared to come before you today with a bill stating that we are now going to repair the teeth of all Estonian residents at the expense of the Health Insurance Fund. You would have ruined me, because, unfortunately, the government coalition has some other priorities right now. Of course, we have discussed this, and one day we will certainly come up with a bill that proposes to treat all people's teeth to a certain extent at the expense of the Health Insurance Fund. But let's just start with what we've started with. We made it easier for you: make the little step that 360,000 people are waiting for right now. The other part of your question was whether the Health Insurance Fund had discussed the matter. Yeah, well, the Health Insurance Fund has a pretty awesome administrative capacity in the sense that they have competent financials, economics. They have made various calculations of the cost of dental care benefits for pensioners only or, in other cases, for people of working age. The basis for this is the various compensation rates. I don't have this data in front of me right now, but I think that I'm considering 20, 25 or 30 euros a year. This is the average cost of a single seal. Generally, of course, people over 45 need more than one seal and more expensive dental care per year. But yes, I dare not confirm anything more precisely, but these amounts were in the order of 30 or 35 million euros. You can check it out, it's not complicated at all. It's just I don't have a kilo of medical records on me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U28	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U29	This is, of course, very sad, but I ask you to support the bill, because it is really awaited by a great many people who would like you, honourable coalition ambassadors, and also by us opposition ambassadors, to smile radiantly on election day, demonstrating their natural teeth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U30	Thank you, dear waitress. You will be able to answer even if you are not asked a question. And now, as representative of the Social Affairs Committee, I would like to ask the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Aivar Koka.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U31	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft in two sessions. On 11 January, an introduction by the representative of the initiator was heard and on 12 January, the positions of the Government of the Republic were heard. Further questions were also asked. There was an interest in whether the draft would also include people with partial and lack of work capacity in the number of beneficiaries of this benefit. The reply explained that this has not been taken into account in the draft of the Estonian Centre Party Group, although this has been taken into account in the legislative amendments that will enter into force on 1 July, with the entry into force of all the sections of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act. There are also partial and missing persons among the recipients of dental and prosthetic benefits. At the same time, it should be stressed that the government's 2015/2019 Action Plan has addressed this issue more widely, in addition to prosthetic benefits, it also includes an adult dental improvement plan. The Ministry of Social Affairs will have to submit a draft in April 2016. In order to carry out this task, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund prepares proposals to the Ministry of Social Affairs for a comprehensive solution to the issue of the payment of dental care benefits for adults. An assessment of the impact of this on the health insurance budget will also be provided. There are some improvements that need to be made. According to Statistics Estonia, we have nearly 400,000 old-age and incapacity pensions, not 360000. At the end of 2014 there were 394372. If you multiply it times 255,65, you get 100 million. If it's divided into three years, it takes about 30 million a year. At present, the cost of prosthetic benefits is about 7.5 million. In view of the fact that many others certainly want dental benefits, the cost of the change to the budget may be around 14 million. The Commission also took decisions: to appoint Mr Aivar Kokk, President of the Commission, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 19 January, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, i.e. 2 February at 5.15 p.m. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U32	Thank you. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! When the dental care allowance was lost in its time, hundreds of thousands of Estonians suffered a health disadvantage. My question is this: can you answer how much money has been saved since then? That's the first question. Secondly, how much extra costs did it generate as large bills to improve health? Thirdly, is anyone responsible for this and, if so, who?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U34	Thank you, Peter, for the questions. You ask questions that have nothing to do with this bill. Today we are talking about the possible use of pensioner dental prosthetic benefits for dental care. The questions that have been put there are appropriate for some other draft or other subject. I cannot answer them, because these issues were not discussed in the Commission during the debate on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U35	Thank you. No further questions. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 121. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for the submission of 121 amendments, including 2 February at 5.15 p.m. I'm sorry, I'm so sorry! I'm opening negotiations. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is no secret that the health of adults leaves something to be desired. The importance of this issue has been discussed for a long time here today, so I will not dwell on it any longer. The rapporteur for the draft was very rhetorical and in many words. Indeed, there is no secret, nor is there any news that untreated teeth pose a risk to the whole health of a person. And as Viktor Vassilyev also pointed out, although he spoke for some reason about the teeth and gypsies of horses, untreated teeth also have a significant effect on the treatment of other diseases. In my opinion, no less important is the dignity of a person, which is greatly affected by the missing teeth. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Centre Party supports the idea agreed by the government last spring to allow pensioners in retirement and incapacity for work to use a prosthetic benefit of EUR 255.65 for dental care for a period of three years. However, in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, the point on this subject is more extensive. The aim is to deal with adults' dental treatments in a much wider way and to develop a dental improvement programme for adults between 2015 and 2019. The idea of making dental care more affordable for pensioners is good, but the current draft of the Centre Party is not perfect. The impact and implementation costs of the law must also be thoroughly analysed at ministerial level, and the costs must also be taken into account in the national budget strategy. As has already been said, the analysis and proposals of the Health Insurance Fund are expected by spring to the Ministry of Social Affairs, to what extent and to what extent the payment of dental care benefits to adults is possible and its impact on the budget of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund as a whole. Why is such an analysis important? First of all, the health insurance fund has data on the amount of prosthetic benefits paid in previous years, but there is no estimate of the extent to which those pensioners who so far have not needed or will not need prosthetics will be able to use dental treatment for dental reasons, but who would need money for dental care. The sums I have calculated are much higher than the waitress Viktor Vassilyev said. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee also noted that the costs were much higher. It is indeed a pleasure that the Centre Party has just begun to restructure the dental care of the most vulnerable population group, but that is not enough. We cannot say that younger adults, too, have no problem paying for dental care. A lot of people have low incomes. In my personal opinion, the organisation of dental care for children should also be reviewed, under what conditions and with whom the health insurance fund concludes health care contracts and whether they are sustainable. How can parents actually take advantage of the opportunities created by the state and take care of the dental care of their children, and if they do not take care of it, should there be sanctions? So I personally have a lot of additional questions about the whole dental arrangement. So we need to move on to the subject. We look forward to the revised draft of the Government of the Republic this spring so that it can also serve as a basis for developing the budgetary strategy for the country next year. As the Centre Party supports the programme of action of the Government Coalition, the Reform Party also supports the completion of the first reading of Bill 121. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U37	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U38	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Estonian Free Party Group supports the Centre Party initiative, but we want to draw attention to the fact already mentioned several times today. In particular, that the draft concerns only part of the iceberg target group, which needs better access to dental care, is much wider. We are concerned that there is a very high level of participation in dental prices. The report by the OECD in 2015 pointed out that the participation rate in Estonian health care is 25%, while in dental care it is essentially 100%. As we know, since 2003 when the Health Insurance Act was amended, compensation for the cost of dental care services for adults was abolished and replaced by a dental care allowance of EUR 19.18 per year. I'll give you half a seal for that. This has led to very few people using this benefit, as treatment is expensive and the level of compensation is low compared to it. There is also a clear awareness of the importance of healthy teeth for human health, which is relatively low. It was a little strange, of course, to hear that the analysis was being performed again. As far as I know, the Health Insurance Fund has repeatedly analysed the cost of dental care, as confirmed by Mr Vasilyev, Member of the Health Insurance Board. Why is it to be carried out again and come out with annual results this year in spring? But that's it. I just want to say that these analyses, how it could be compensated in the future, have already been carried out. We believe that dental benefits must be treated in a comprehensive manner in the interests of all the target groups. Compensation must be restored and increased and patients' own participation reduced. At present, households on low incomes are at many times at greater risk of losing their dental care services, simply not having the money to do so. Today, we support the proposal of the Centre Party and await the steps of the Health Insurance Fund and the Government of the Republic to ensure that dental care is also available to people on average and low wages and to those who do not have health insurance at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U39	Thank you. Please, Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U40	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, During the election campaign, during which many may have forgotten their promises by now, one very often raised issue, namely dental care. In rural areas in particular, people complained that they were unable to solve dental problems, and I am quite convinced that most of the people in this Chamber who were in contact with this issue during the campaign promised to deal with this problem and find solutions to it. Of course, the concern of dental care and dental prosthetics is not just about pensioners. As a father of six children, all children have had to visit a dentist. So, of course, this is a popular issue. But it is also clear that Mr Vasilyev hit the nail on the head when he said that if he came here now with a complex solution, this solution would probably not be supported in the hall. So it is probably wise to approach the matter by slices, cutting the sausage slice by slice. And one of the most likely groups to suffer is older people who find it difficult to relieve their dental problems. That is why our party agrees with the previous speakers: the procedure for this draft must be continued. We give it our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U41	Thank you. Helmen Küttt from the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, the great recognition of the Centre Party and Viktor Vassilyev, who performed very emotionally! There may be the impression that someone here is proposing to reject the draft at first reading. Oh, no, the Committee on Social Affairs was very unanimous in its support for the draft, and everyone believes that this is a necessary undertaking. I'm only marking for the sake of the verbatim report, which is what it is today. Maybe some people, given the small amount of money, don't even know what the chances of dental care are right now. Indeed, dental care under the age of 19 is free of charge at the health insurance fund's contractual partners. Adults are also entitled to inescapable help and they receive such dental care free of charge from the health insurance fund's contractual partners. Dental benefit, which has been discussed here today, is first prosthetic benefit. Older people than 63 years of age receive €225.65 in three years. Of course, people older than 63 years can receive annual dental benefits of €19.18, which is clearly a very small amount and indeed only allow for oral examination. Pregnant women, mothers with a child under one year of age and persons with increased dental needs receive €28.77 per year. The bill is very correct, it is the first step towards a larger plan. I agree with Mr Helme, who said that probably all the parties in this Chamber have allowed this during the election campaign. Here are the figures on how many people are affected by the draft submitted by the Centre Party. Viktor Vassilyev spoke of 360,000, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of 400000, but we have 970000 people with adult health insurance. The Government of the Republic is coming up with its draft in accordance with the plan set out in the Coalition Agreement. People must also have the opportunity to smile, even when they are 19 years old, even if there is no money or if there is no inevitable help, that the tooth must be pulled out, including a smile, especially at the moment when the job is being sought. For this reason, we consider it right and very important that people of working age also be able to receive dental care benefits. You have to think bigger and act bigger! The Social Democratic Party will undoubtedly support the draft tabled, we have already supported it in the Commission, but we are thinking more, we are doing more. As a result, we can only recommend that everyone wait and then support the draft that the Government of the Republic brings to this Chamber, where the Minister of Health and Labour will introduce it. Support all this bill, which provides for better opportunities for all Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U43	Thank you. Once again, I apologise to all those who wished to speak in the negotiations. There are no more requests for negotiation at the moment, so the negotiations are now really over. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 121. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 121 amendments, including 2 February at 5.15 p.m. The debate on the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U44	Let's keep going. The second item is the first reading of Bill 115 of Amendment to the Maintenance Assistance Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Please waitress Raivo Põldaru, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U45	President-in-Office of the Council. People's ambassadors! This planned amendment is, you could say, a beautiful fine-tuning of our future lives. We are trying to help children who grow up in the care of one parent and those whose parents have been abandoned and appointed guardians. The current law allows one parent to apply for child maintenance aid on the basis of a court order. Maintenance aid is usually prescribed by a court order from another parent who does not support the child's upbringing. However, if a grandparent is a guardian, he cannot ask for this support. I would like to remind you once again that this one-time maintenance aid is issued by a court order from a parent, and perhaps even for a grandparent, if his child does not support the growth of his child. So the court can assign maintenance aid to another parent, but not to a guardian. And a legislative amendment to that effect would make it possible to apply for one-off aid under a court order. I would like to stress once again that this is a one-off opportunity for a minor child to receive child support, which would amount to one third of child care allowance, which would buy a little over EUR 3 a day. In total, according to the law, it is possible to apply for it 90 days ago. So this amounts to EUR 287, which, however, helps to raise a child, even though it is a one-off aid for the entire duration of his or her life. Yes, indeed, for one child each month, the guardian receives EUR 290 from the State, but it only partially covers the child's maintenance costs. And now, once more is asked for in life, additional money is requested under a court order and the guardian receives the EUR 287, it should not be too much. And it would help. So we propose to amend Article 2 (4) of the Maintenance Aid Act, to which we would like to add only the phrase 'and to the guardian of the minor child', such a beautiful small fine-tuning. This would also allow guardians to ask for this help, which, in fact, if the public authorities work well, would not be borne by the state. It would initially be paid by the Social Insurance Institution, but it would be required from a parent who is not involved in raising a child. I think this change would be in the interests of our children. After all, there are real-life court orders in which the child's interests may have been placed above some legislative interests. In spring, when I asked the Minister of Justice about this in this very Chamber, he thought that indeed, the interests of the child must be put higher and that if there is a deficit in the law that needs liquidation, then let him know and he will make arrangements. But for now, I have some information that he's changed his mind a little bit. And he is justified by the fact that the EUR 290 per month granted to a child under guardianship should be sufficient and the EUR 287 paid once in a lifetime need no longer be added. However, I think that this change is necessary. Today, all political parties could support the growth of our children even when they are under guardianship. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U46	Thank you. You have questions too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Such a proposal is very beautiful and human, and I think we all support it in our souls. But I have a very specific question for you. When we read this proposal, we see that it says: "Life support is paid to the parent and guardian of the minor child... 'Shouldn't it be 'or' instead of 'and'? You can't pay a parent and at the same time a guardian of a minor child.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U48	I don't know how to understand this 'and'd' and 'or'd'... Maybe the word 'or' would be better. But the point is that this help is still available to the child's parent and now there is also a guardian.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U49	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U50	Thank you, good manager. A respectable waitress! That's a great idea, but now it needs to be fine-tuning. How many children could there be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U51	I don't know how big this number could be, but I think there are. The Chancellor of Justice says that if there is one case, something needs to be done. These children must not grow in unequal conditions compared to others. So I think this kind of help should be provided. And I repeat, this would not impose any additional burden on the state budget, because in general, this money would still be demanded from the parent who does not give money to raise his child.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U52	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U53	Thank you, dear waitress. Everything would be very nice, but I have a feeling you've confused some terms. My question is that please explain the difference between parental custody and custody. You've got a lot of confusion in terms here. Please explain what you mean by that!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U54	I am thinking of the fact that a court order makes the guardian aware of the possibility of receiving maintenance assistance. That is what the proposed legislative amendment is all about: the court order makes provision for maintenance aid. It is now also recognised by a court order when one parent asks for maintenance assistance from another parent. If the guardian had that right, the problem would have been solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U55	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U56	My question was a little bit about the other opera. Please explain the difference between parental custody and custody. Then you'll know what you really want.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U57	Thank you! I'm talking about maintenance and the possibility of a guardian asking for it. At the moment, the guardian does not have such an option. The amount currently paid by the state to the guardian for raising the child is 240 euros per month, but it does not have the possibility to apply for maintenance funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U58	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Kristjan Kõljala, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U59	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft law on 14 December and we were introduced by the representative of the EKRE. I will give you an overview of what the Government of the Republic thinks of the draft and what discussion we had in the Commission. As regards the position of the Government of the Republic, it must first be said that they do not support the draft. The reason is that, according to § 1 of the Maintenance Aid Act, the purpose of this Act is to lay down the conditions and procedures for receiving maintenance aid in the case of a child whose parent does not fulfil a maintenance obligation. The law governs the recovery of maintenance aid paid by the State from the parent liable for the maintenance of the child and the recovery of maintenance aid unduly paid. According to § 96 of the Family Act, maintenance is to be provided by adult ascending and descending relatives of the first and second degree. Unlike parents, the guardian does not have a maintenance obligation under guardianship, so it would not be appropriate to pay maintenance aid to the guardian. Instead, the State Family Benefits Act provides for a child allowance of 240 euros per month for guardianship, paid to a child who has not received parental care every month. This support will provide the child in custody with minimum maintenance for the period for which the guardian seeks child support from his or her biological parents. To be precise, the amount of maintenance aid is EUR 96 per month and is paid for three months. During the Commission's meeting, specific questions were raised and mainly concerned the amount of the guardianship allowance and the arrangements for its payment. At the committee meeting, the proposal to close the first reading of the draft was put to the vote. With the result of 4 members of the Commission in favour and 6 against, the proposal was not supported. The Committee on Legal Affairs therefore proposes that the Riigikogu plenary session reject the draft 115 at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U60	Thank you, dear waitress. Heljo Pikhof, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U61	I'm sorry, I can't ask anymore, but I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U62	You can do this outside the court. No further questions, honorable waitress. Do the groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading. Let us vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 32 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U63	We are going to the last item on the agenda today, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the party law initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The rapporteur is Peeter Ernits, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U64	Good President and colleagues who have not yet left the hall! The fact that Estonian society is ageing is clear to everyone. And it's also clear that in great trouble, the devil also eats flies. A first step was taken in Estonia to approach young people when the Constitution was amended for the second time during the previous term and the 16-year-olds were given the opportunity to participate in municipal and city council elections. This was done despite the fact that there was a great deal of opposition in the public domain.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U65	Excuse me, honorable waitress. Ladies and gentlemen, let's focus on the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U66	This was done despite the fact that both Postimees and Estonian Television Forum polls had 80 or 90% or even more against giving 16-year-olds the right to vote in municipal elections. But there was talk of 24,000 extra souls that could come to ballot boxes or computers, and that was enough reason to change the constitution. At the same time, the public's support for the direct election of the President has been very strong and there have been many more interested people, but this change has not been made to this day. The aim of the Centre Party is now to take a second and a third step after this first step. The second step was to propose that, if the 16-year-olds can vote in local elections, they should be given the opportunity to stand as candidates there. And, as you recall, quite recently this bill was sent to the trash bin in this hall. Today I am before you in step three, with bill 144. I understand this, too, is a suicide act, and the government has also condemned this bill to death. The Government discussed the case on 17 December 2015 and the Minister of Justice notes that pursuant to § 8 (2) of the General Part of the Civil Code Act, persons aged 18 years have full capacity, and persons under 18 years of age who are unable to understand their actions because of mental illness, insanity or other mental disorder. Thus, a person of 16 to 17 years of age has limited capacity, which is why such a situation cannot arise in order for a minor to be fully operational. And as you remember, § 10 of the Act states that a unilateral transaction made by a person with limited capacity without the prior consent of a legal representative is void. I do not know whether this means that if the 16-year-old to whom we have granted the right to elect a municipal council or a city council votes, his vote is not one vote, but 0.5 or 0.6 or 0.7 votes. It's not like we're talking about it. At the same time, this situation is somewhat incomprehensible. When discussing granting 16-year-olds the right to elect a municipality, a great deal was quoted by political scientist Anu Tootsi. He said that the 14-year-olds already understand society and that the 15-year-olds are much more mature than most adults, I stress that! Young people aged 18 to 24 are said to be mostly at an unstable stage of life; they have just become self-sufficient and are looking for an outlet for themselves. So other questions are important to them, and going to choose is a fourth-rate question. That is his view. At the same time, young people aged 16 to 17 are still in their parents' home, their lives are quite stable and they could choose peacefully. In Estonia, a 14-year-old can be held liable for a miscarriage or crime, 15-year-olds can marry with the consent of both parents, 16-year-olds can apply for a restricted licence, 14-year-olds can start sex and 16-year-olds already have the right to petition. Therefore, these are very contradictory positions. On the one hand, even younger people are more mature than those aged 18 to 24, on the other hand, the majority of the population thinks, on the contrary, that they are really manipulative and 16-year-olds should not be allowed to choose at all, do not run and then enter the party. When you saw the results of the fresh study of the Daily Paper, you know that the number of political party members is decreasing. We are offering a small opportunity to increase the number of members during difficult times. But, of course, you have the decision, we have it. In any case, the Centre Party has taken a third step from the package, the first step of which was to give the 16-year-olds the right to vote in local elections, the second step was also to give them the right to stand as candidates, and the third step is to give young people the opportunity to join the party and act actively there. In that case, I guess the suspicion that they're too manipulative to know what they're doing would go away. If a person is in a party, his interests are much clearer and he understands more clearly where he is, what he is doing and why he is doing. At the same time, the question of reduced capacity under the age of 18 remains in my mind. As the Minister of Justice said in his letter, some times we look at things the same way, and on other occasions we make the same argument to kill some drafts. That is also the case in this case. But thank you for your attention, and if there are any questions, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U67	Thank you. Indeed, there are questions. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good colleague Peter Ernits! I am very grateful to you for this review of how young our citizens can participate in society. I would add that, as of 2007, under the Act on the Small Islands with permanent residence, permanent residents of the island of at least 15 years of age may participate in the General Assembly of the smaller islands with voting rights. Do you know any cases where something would have gone wrong in island life because 15-year-olds attend and vote in the general assembly? Is there an island that's been on the rocks?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U69	You know the life of the small islands better. But people living on a small island are certainly much more mature than people living on a continent because the sea is harsh and the sea is round. I think that young people in the small islands, as many as there are, are much more mature than young people living between forests and bogs on a peaceful continent.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U70	Thank you. No further questions for you. Mart Nut, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 12 January, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the draft law with number 144 at its regular meeting. Stella Johanson, adviser to the private law department of the Ministry of Justice, was also invited. Mr Ernits, the representative of the initiators, gave an overview of the reasons for the draft proposal. I'm not gonna say that again. But now I am going to the Commission's debate. The Commission, as well as the draft explanatory memorandum, expressed the opinion that since people from the age of 16 will be able to vote in municipal elections, a proposal on their membership of a political party could also be discussed. When we look at the practice of different countries, we see that the age limit for membership of a party is different from one country to another. The 16-year limit really does exist in some individual countries, such as Austria, if I remember correctly. In many countries the limit is 18 years old and in some countries it is unregulated. At the same time, there are countries where it is said that a party may belong to a person entitled to vote. This is once again a regulation that varies from country to country, but the age limit is usually 18 years. With regard to the amendment of the Constitution, the Commission was pointed out that the Constitution was amended to give voting rights to the 16-year-olds at least, but not the right to vote. Such a difference in terminology, however, highlights the fact that voting rights mean active electoral rights, but not both active and passive electoral rights. If this issue were regulated differently in the Constitution, for example, instead of voting rights, we would be faced with a new situation. However, since this letter to the Constitution was not received, the Commission maintained that the Constitution did not allow the ordinary law, which we discussed some time ago, to extend this provision on voting rights to the right to vote. Therefore, I will not go into any more detail as to what possible questions this would entail. However, there was a question in the committee about what would happen if a young person at least 16 years of age could be a member of a party. If he has the right to vote when choosing a local government, then the question might logically be that if he can vote, why can't he be a party? The main objection, which was also raised by a representative of the Ministry of Justice, was that if a party may be a member of the party from the age of 16, then maybe automatically, as a result, there will be no problem, but the problem arises when such a young person is elected to the political party's board. And if such a distinction is made that he may belong to a political party but not to a board of directors, then again the question arises as to whether his rights are not restricted in this way. In the case of a person entitled to vote, there is no problem of economic responsibility, but, being a member of a political party's board, a person has an economic responsibility. Since a young person aged 16 to 18 does not have full access to it, he or she has limited capacity, i.e. he or she must be a guardian of the law, he or she cannot be a member of the management board or take decisions relating to a party's property liability or economic matters. I am not going to discuss this debate here any longer, but it focused primarily on the capacity of individuals. There's only one thing I'm stressing. A representative of the Ministry of Justice was also asked that if a person has been given the right to vote under the Constitution, it does not extend his or her capacity. We have received the answer that yes, yes, will be extended, but only specifically in one part: that it has the right to vote. However, this does not automatically lead to an extension of his capacity to the full. That was the arguments. I understand that the objections were not so much raised on the ground that a person at least 16 years of age could belong to a party or not. The point was that there would be problems with the question of the capacity of such a young person to act on the political party's boards or not. That is why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support the draft. Three decisions were taken. First, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 19 January 2016, which was a consensual decision. It was also proposed to reject the draft (by 5 Commission members, 3 against and no abstentions) and to appoint Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur (this decision was also consensual). The position of the Government of the Republic is, as the representative of the author of the draft has already said, and as it also appeared from the minutes of the Commission sitting, not to support the adoption of the draft for the reasons mentioned above. That's all I've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U72	Thank you. There are questions for you too. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U73	Thank you, manager. Good colleague Mart! You're trying to justify something that's very hard to justify. I'm sure you'll understand it's actually bullshit. Austria took the example of Estonia so that they could also vote at the age of 16 to 17. And in Austria, they may also belong to a party. In Estonia, however, there are now some arguments against it, for example, that this is an obstacle to the sudden election of such a young person to the board of directors. There is another way to eliminate this threat. But I'm asking, Mart, how do you imagine a 16-year-old is going to vote? After all, he should have developed some kind of worldview by which he chooses a good neighbor or neighbor. But it's political parties that represent world views. How do you take away his decision-making on the way halfway? That's not normal. Basically, you go to the young people's hands to get their voices or buy them, but you don't give them anything in return.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U74	Thank you, Tarmo! I will pass on the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and not present my views. That's one. Secondly, a person who goes to vote in municipal elections may not be a member of any political party. After all, most people who have the right to choose do not belong to any political party. Yes, people who apply, not always, but often belong to a party, which makes sense. And in local elections, they may also belong to the electoral alliances. This problem in the case of active voting is not, in itself, very serious if the person does not belong to a party but participates in elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U75	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U76	Good manager! Good colleague! I come back to the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Tell us, too, in this big hall, that a person with limited capacity should act as one with a guardian. So how can he choose someone into a municipal or city council without a guardian?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U77	Yeah, he can't be elected to a municipal or city council. He himself can vote for this specific extension of capacity on a specific issue, the Constitution has so made for young people. The Riigikogu decided to amend the Constitution in this way by a sufficient majority.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U78	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Suppose there is such a provision in the law that under 18-year-olds are prohibited from being a member of the board of a party. After that, would there be any formal reason why 16 to 17 couldn't be members of a party? Or, in other words, is there any argument on which the government coalition could take the view that we would also give the 16-year-olds the right to belong to a political party?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U80	I don't want to start speculating about what would happen if it was either way. That's the state of affairs right now. But I still dare to come up with my own vision and guess what problems might arise. One problem would be that we would have political party members in the so-called two different legal areas: those who have the right to stand on the board, and others who do not. Is that a problem or not? I do not know how to make a final assessment of this right now, but I think there is a reference to discrimination here. However, this issue was not discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The second question is that people under the age of 18 may belong to the youth organisations of the party, being young members. So in itself, they can be involved in the party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U81	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U82	Thank you. Good waitress! In fact, with your last sentence, you also came up with the answer to my question. We know that the Centre Party has a youth body and there are many active members, one of whom has become a member of the Riigikogu. Does the Fatherland and Res Publica Association also have a youth body?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U83	Thank you. Yes, there is a youth organisation. I think it's probably every party, maybe there's only a difference in legal form.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U84	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U85	Thank you. Good waitress! Youth councils were also on the agenda when the Constitution had to be amended. Then you didn't like the fact that it was through youth councils that young people can introduce their preferences and participate in politics. Then you absolutely didn't like the fact that there were youth councils out there, that it was necessary to lower the elections. But why are elections selective, so that a 16-year-old can vote, but at the same time he cannot run for office? He can't drive, he can't get married, he can't belong to a party. Why is that? How can a person's level be assessed so selectively? We give them the right we want to give, but we don't give us the right that's not good for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U86	Thank you, Tarmo! You're asking the wrong person. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now discussed the amendment of party law. If the Riigikogu was the first round of voting on the amendment of the Constitution, then I was not a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U87	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In answering my first question, you said that there would be two legal spaces: members of the same party have different rights and this might seem to be discrimination. I'd widen the subject. Should we also talk about discrimination because we have Estonian citizens and stateless persons who live in one room but have different rights? These are absolutely parallel things.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U89	Thank you. In my opinion, they are not parallel. Every person living permanently in Estonia has the opportunity to apply for Estonian citizenship and it is his or her free choice whether or not he or she applies for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U90	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, Estonian Conservative People's Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U91	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The position of the Conservative People's Party with regard to the amendment of the Constitution, the reduction of the electoral age and also the amendment of the electoral law I am thinking of reducing the election age of local elections was negative. In our opinion, politics at such a young age is not justified; people should mature. In the light of this logic and the same thinking, we do not support this draft. Let us draw attention to the same thing Mart Nutt has just pointed out: in our political party, too, you can become a member of the youth organisation by the age of 15 and this is the stage of growth and ripening, where you can start making a big policy. So we will not give our support to this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-19_U92	Thank you. There's no more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading. We are going to vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 144 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 23 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's trial is over. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 11.39 a.m.
