ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Let's do a presence check, please! 33 members of the Riigikogu participate in Question Time. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, who is in charge of the Prime Minister, Margus Tsahkna, Minister of Social Protection and Arto Aas, Minister of Public Administration, participate in Question Time. Since last day has expressed its wish to ask nine people, I will give the opportunity to present only one additional question on the subject during the debate on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U2	The first question is for Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, who is in charge of the Prime Minister today. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. In the role of the Prime Minister of Mr Ossinovski, Mr Jevgeni. On 22 January this year, the leaders of three opposition parties sent a letter to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas proposing to organise a public competition for the presence of an Estonian representative in the European Court of Auditors. The Prime Minister's answer was then that the problem had been solved and that it was not appropriate to organise a competition. In your opinion, if there had been a competition, would Estonia have found a better representative of the European Audit Office? In an interview with Postimees yesterday, Juhan Parts told him that he would have wanted a competition himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U4	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The Government of the Republic is governed by the law when making its decisions. As regards the candidate of a member of the European Court of Auditors, the Government of the Republic Act states that the candidate will be proposed by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, listening to the opinion of the Auditor General. On the basis of this opinion, the Government can decide on the candidate or candidates submitted to the Government by the Minister for Finance. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly declared his candidate publicly and has presented the same person to the government for decision, after consulting the National Audit Office, as required by the law. It is likely that the Minister of Finance could have formally announced a competition to fill this place and find a candidate, but apparently he did not consider it useful. Why, you can ask him that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U5	Tarmo Tamm, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U6	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The candidate proposed by the country must conduct a hearing in the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament; they shall assess the suitability of the candidate. If Juhan Parts does not get through the hearing and the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control does not consider him an appropriate candidate, will there be a public competition or what is the government's plan B to move forward on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U7	Thank you. Indeed, the decision to appoint a candidate proposed by the government of one or more Member States as a member of the European Court of Auditors shall be taken by the Council of the European Union, after consulting the European Parliament. Yes, since this decision is taken by the Council of the European Union in consultation with the European Parliament, it is also possible for these European institutions not to endorse a candidate proposed by a Member State by exercising their right under the legal order. In this case, the Government of the Republic is in a new situation where a new candidate has to be found under the law in force. If such a scenario were to materialise, we would certainly be discussing this situation in the Government of the Republic and we will also find a solution to the new situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U8	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U9	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Minister Ossinovski! Where did the social democrats come from, however, from a very sudden change of mind? We should have appointed a person for that post at least a year ago. In the corridors of Europe, it was felt and still felt embarrassed that Estonia had delayed this process. What is the reason for your change of heart? With the presidential elections, you were released from Kersti Kaljulaid's office and suddenly you received the Parts on the same morning that Kersti Kaljulaid took the oath of office as a candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U10	Indeed, the process of appointing a member of the European Court of Auditors clearly took Estonia or the Government of the Republic disproportionately long. Looking at the importance of this post, it has to be said that both the public and the political discussions on the implementation of this post have been in no way proportional. I think we could have named a Member of the European Court of Auditors much faster than we finally succeeded. I have previously told both the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister that if we had had had a new candidate at the time, almost a year ago now, this issue would certainly have been resolved more quickly. For various reasons, there were no alternative candidates for other parties in the Government of the Republic, in particular in the formalistic sense, no one else had been presented by the Minister of Finance, which is why this process was really delayed. I am pleased that this issue has finally been resolved and we can move on to other issues and issues, which are certainly much more important both in European policy and within the country. As I have said repeatedly in public, neither my opinion nor the opinion of the Social Democrats has changed with regard to a particular candidate, but the change in the situation has been objective and substantial. The former representative's resignation as President left this place empty. Estonia cannot leave international positions empty, so the decision had to be made quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U11	I will conclude on this issue. However, I think it is important to remind honourable members of the Riigikogu that this is a Question Time of the Government of the Republic, not a press conference of political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U12	The next question is for the Minister of State Administration, Arto Asa. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! The State Support Services Centre has worked for several years. It is clear that, in a sense, it is a very necessary institution, because a number of public authorities, as well as the bodies they manage, could find support there and they hope to find it there. At the same time, customer satisfaction studies conducted by the State Support Services Centre for at least three years have shown that IT management systems are still not working properly, the use of databases is quite difficult, etc. At the same time, the agencies have continued to employ accountants and staff managers. Do you consider such a situation to be natural?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U14	Good questioner! In general, however, the developments of the State Support Services Centre can be very satisfied. There has been little talk about this institution, more information is available about other institutions in the administration of the Ministry of Finance, such as the Tax and Customs Board or Statistics. But for some years now, the State Support Services Centre has shown very good results. This body brings together financial, personnel and wage accounting services from public authorities. Public authorities can focus on their core activities and support services are provided in a single competence centre. I don't know where your information comes from, that there are some serious problems. I would like to read more about it from the source. All I can say is that in the last three years, customers have been satisfied with the services of the State Support Services Centre and their satisfaction has increased, currently accounting for 8.3 out of 10. This is a very good result, given that the movement of people from ministries to support services is difficult. Change is always linked to emotions and fears. It may be difficult to get used to this new service, too, but despite these transition difficulties, customer satisfaction is very high. So the overall assessment is positive. The fact that the overall assessment is positive also proves that new institutions are joining the Support Centre every quarter. Ministries will soon be all its customers, but cultural institutions will already join it, and functions will be added to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U15	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U16	Thank you, Mr President. I want to talk about cultural institutions. In particular, in order to understand reporting at all and to understand how much money they have, a number of cultural institutions are forced to keep paying accountants and personnel accounting. My second question concerns the inclusion of the services of the Centre for Public Procurement in the tasks of the Centre for Support Services. What does that mean? Does the law require a public authority to draw up a public procurement plan and make public procurement procedures? At the same time, the central organisation of public procurement, like the National Support Services Centre, would be transferred to whom it would be paid for. Isn't there a situation where one thing is done twice again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U17	Thank you. Double and twice as sure you don't want to do anything. On the contrary, adding tasks to the Support Centre has helped to reduce staff by a third over these years. That's a very large number. Otherwise, if we cut by a percentage or two, the transfer of these functions to the central competence centre has resulted in a third of savings. A simple example: we have small institutions with financialists, accountants, but a total of maybe 30 employees, but one person at the Support Centre can serve 1000 employees. There is a very large difference between quality and efficiency. Perhaps the first weeks and months of a transitional period for some institutions are difficult because of the need to get used to new roles, but duplication should certainly be avoided. If there are such examples, I would be happy to listen more closely to them. As far as public procurement is concerned, it is planned to give the Centre more tasks and a greater role in the organisation of procurement. This, again, is because if you do these things together, together, there is more competence, and it is certainly cheaper for public authorities to get things together, whether they are paper or pens, than by doing it one by one. The first institutions are in the process of organising procurements through the RTK, and I mention in particular the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice in their administration. If this model works and the customer satisfaction is as high as for other services, it should be expanded. It is currently voluntary, it is not mandatory to tender through the Support Services Centre, but if we see that it is successful, effective and satisfied, then more and more functions in this area could be given to one competence centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U18	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U19	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! As far as I know, the Offices of the State Support Services Centre are currently located in Tallinn, Tartu and Viljandi. I have heard that it is fashionable in the government to discuss the removal of state institutions from Tallinn and a more even distribution across Estonia. Could this also concern the State Support Services Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U20	In this area too, the Centre for Support is a good example. Not all its employees are in Tallinn, it is true that the units are in Tartu and Viljandi. There is also an agreement that at least half of the jobs created at the State Support Services Centre are outside Tallinn. I think that's a pretty good proportion. This is exactly the kind of work that does not depend on the location, it is done primarily on the computer and there is no difference whether the workspace and computer are located in Tartu, Viljandi or Endla street. This is the direction we are holding and, if possible, even improving this proportion if there is a skilled workforce in other regions. We have given this positive example of RTK to other administrative areas to show that jobs can be taken out of Tallinn if the result of the work is independent of location. Let us see how we can proceed with this in our administration in the coming years. The rule of thumb is that when a ministry transfers its accounting services to the State Support Services Centre, it is also possible for people to move along. Not everyone wants it, but some people do. Is everyone ready to move from Tallinn to Viljandi or Tartu? Probably not. In this case people will be replaced and new people will be recruited outside Tallinn. But it's a good example that it can. If there is a will and a long-term strategy, if it is not done in a campaign in a week's time, about replacing good people and taking other people in a campaign, but there is a long-term plan, then this model will work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U22	The next question is to the Minister for Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U23	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, However, I hope that the members of the Riigikogu may parliamentaryly ask the ministers questions in this Chamber; they do not have to do so at a government press conference. Minister, you have said that your mind has not changed in opposition to Juhan Parts, but circumstances have changed. About a year ago, when this issue came up, the ministers of the Social Democratic Party blocked the nomination of the Parts. We do not need to be convinced that there are principles to be found in the social world. We all know it was a tactical move to gain a trading space for government associates to give in on some other matter. We all know that it is a public secret that the counterproduct that was asked for or wanted was that the IRL would stop blocking the implementation of the Cohabitation Act. Does the fact that you have now abandoned the blockade of the Parts mean that we will soon be able to see the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act before Parliament and, as miraculously, will the ministers and members of the IRL stop blocking their adoption?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U24	Thank you for this interesting question, Mr Helme. As far as I know, implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act are in Riigikogu proceedings. If memory doesn't fool me, they'll have passed the first reading. I believe that the Riigikogu is doing a good job in order to complete the procedure for this bill. As a member of the Government of the Republic, I certainly cannot comment on how members of the Riigikogu should vote on the adoption of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U25	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U26	Thank you very much. But then I ask completely frankly: did the Soccer just suddenly become kind, or what was the reason for this kindness?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U27	I think the Social Democrats are generally a kind political family. We have a lot of good and good-hearted people here with your colleagues, talking about the emotional structure of this team. I've never identified the opposite. But to answer what, I suppose, was the substance of the question whether, in the context of the appointment of a member of the Court of Auditors, there had been any broader agreements that could materialise in some form of draft law or in another context, I would say no, it has not been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U28	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U29	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The rumors have come to our ears that this was not so purely happening. Is it true that they took the place of head of the European Commission's representation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U30	Thank you. Various rumors have come to the ears of Members. However, as far as the European Commission's representation in Estonia is concerned, as you are well aware, it is about the workers of the European Commission, who are not appointed by the Member State. The Member States are absolutely not participating in this procedure in any way. This means that the Government of the Republic or the Republic of Estonia, in general, has no decision-making role in the way in which this selection procedure is carried out and who is called to this place. So questions about how this procedure is going must be addressed to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U32	Minister of State Administration Arto Aas answers Kersti Sarapuu's question. Please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! When you processed the draft law on administrative reform in the spring, you promised that the so-called content drafts concerning the law would arrive here in the second quarter. In an interview with Prime Minister Vikerraadio last Thursday, Prime Minister said that the law on administrative reform passed in the Riigikogu is the law on content. Do you not think that it is very difficult for local governments to make a decision in favour of or against accession on the basis of the little information that the administrative reform law that has entered into force gives us? It's not clear what accession brings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U34	Thank you. I believe that, in fact, it is clear to the local government leaders what accession will bring, and these positive effects can be assessed. It is true that administrative reform and the merger of municipalities are a very substantive change. This has not been achieved in 25 years. In comparison, the law on the organisation of local government has been amended 75 times in a few decades. This proves that the tasks, role, financing and relations of local government with the country are constantly changing, as is life around us. Every year, something changes in the budget, we negotiate funding with the municipalities every year, we conclude a joint protocol during the budgetary procedure. It's an endless process. This law, which has already been amended 75 times, will certainly be amended 75 more times in the next 50 years. Does the administrative reform depend on future drafts? No, analyses and proposals on administrative reform and accession have been made on the basis of current tasks and situation. This clarity is very clear, and the Administrative Reform Act contains all the implementing provisions, nothing will depend on the future. At the same time, we have, yes, at the political level and in the government, we have also done so in the second quarter, which functions and tasks local authorities could still perform in the future, based on this ideology, so that the role of local governments should increase. We have entered into certain political agreements, these drafts are being prepared. We are not in a hurry, we want to do this thoroughly and calmly. We will reach Parliament with them soon as well, but they certainly do not have such a major and revolutionary effect as the merger of local governments, which has now started to rumble.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U35	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U36	You have said that the reform is on the right track and that the Estonian people are in favour of changes to the administrative reform when you comment on the results of a survey of Turku-Studies AS previously commissioned by the Ministry of Finance. In your opinion, does the social acceptance of the reform manifest itself in the fact that 26 local government councils have approached the Supreme Court with the aim of declaring the law to be contrary to the Constitution, and a large part of 213 local governments are in a position to be expected before the Supreme Court's decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U37	Thank you. Firstly, I would like to say that the majority of municipalities are currently negotiating. Only a few or three municipalities do not negotiate at all, although they do not comply with the legal criteria and could therefore negotiate them. But the majority of the 20 local governments that applied to the Supreme Court actually negotiate. For example, one of the first to take his appeal to court was Kõpu Municipality. Its representative told me in Tartu that, despite this dispute and the decision of the court, they will of course unite, because it makes sense and makes sense, they have successfully negotiated and they have come very far. In a democratic rule of law, it makes sense to go to court. I'm sure every member of the Central Party will know that they're going to court from time to time. The Supreme Court doesn't convict anyone. The Supreme Court will consider whether the constitutional barrage is too intense or not. It is obvious that such a large and wide-ranging reform affects certain fundamental rights of municipalities. This is what we ourselves have written as law writers in black and white in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. However, the violation of the Constitution is justified if there are clear reasons, if there is a strong public interest, if there is an argument and if we defend people's fundamental rights. So the Supreme Court, where we held a public hearing last Tuesday, considers the pros and cons. As the initiators of our draft, we are still convinced that everything is constitutional. However, as the Chancellor of Justice said, if the reform has such a large and important effect, it is actually inevitable or even good if this dispute is assessed by the Supreme Court. Among other things, the opponents themselves have not questioned the need for reform, but only the individual paragraphs of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U38	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U39	Good manager! Good waitress! However, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I recall that these implementing acts, or this so-called periphery formula, have long been waiting. The second quarter is a long way off, now it's the fourth quarter. When will this so-called periphery formula and all the other so-called substantive things that, in my opinion, give real meaning to this failed administrative territorial reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U40	Municipalities still have a financing model, so there is plenty and more. But we will certainly discuss the future scenarios of the municipal financing model in the government within the next month. However, I would like to emphasise once again that everything that concerns the future models of funding or tasks, and which is also linked to, for example, the reform of rural governments, in which we hand over the functions of rural governments, together with the resources, to the municipalities as far as possible, will apply and will enter into force after the merger of the municipalities, at the same time, there are no two things being done at the same time. Next year, the merger of municipalities will be completed and all new models, tasks and functions will enter into force, if approved by Parliament at all, at the earliest in 2018 or 2019. So you shouldn't put these things together. Future financing models, if a new concept arises, a new agreement is concluded and Parliament's approval is obtained, will enter into force from 2018 or later, after a strong foundation has emerged, i.e. strong, capable local authorities on which a new system can be built. So first the mergers and then the rest of the stuff. On top of today's system, it is not possible to build anything serious on the current 213 very different capabilities and different sizes of government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U42	Next, the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, will answer as Prime Minister, asks Monika Haukanõm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There are 2258 convicted prisoners in Estonian prisons. This is considerably more than the average in Europe, for which we are not very proud. The monthly maintenance costs of one prisoner are around EUR 1400. If a small calculation is made, this will amount to EUR 3.3 million per month. The incarceration law says that all convicts under the age of 64 are obliged to work. The goal is for them to acquire work habits and not to immediately commit new crimes when they are released, but to eliminate these criminal habits. How many prisoners are employed in prisons and what they do, are they involved in production or domestic work, or how many of them earn back maintenance costs for the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U44	Thank you very much. First of all, I have to admit that the Minister of Justice is certainly more competent in matters relating to the employment of prisoners than the Minister of Labour, but I still have some fragments to answer your question. Indeed, one of the wider conceptual concerns, which naturally also concerns the costs of the state, is too many prisoners. In recent years, efforts have been made to reduce the number of prisoners in Estonia. This is certainly a way of saving costs on the one hand, but of course it is not the main objective. We have seen that, except in those cases where the purpose of imprisonment is to isolate a person from society, there is no imprisonment when we talk about imprisonment as a punishment, generally not to improve the person's character and behaviour, but rather to amplify criminal reversibility. But that's a wider question. In particular, it is precisely in the context that the transfer of prisoners, their employment, their educational opportunities, other rehabilitation, would be aimed at ensuring that people can go straight after being released from prison. In answer to a specific question, I say that at least with a partial load, 633 prisoners, or almost a third, have been implemented in Estonian prisons, most of which have been applied to domestic or auxiliary work and...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U45	Thank you. Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to give you a chance to finish your thought and bring out these figures. The reason why we had this question is because we have an operational capacity reform. We say that people who are able to work should do so. We are saying that older people should also work harder. The same should apply to convicts. All the more so as the country still has opportunities to direct these people to work. According to the website, the Estonian Prison Industry has employed 130 people, which is not a very large number. That's where my question comes from. Does the Government of the Republic, you and the Minister of Justice have a clear plan to promote the employment of convicted people in the future? 130 is a very small number.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U47	Thank you very much. I'll finish my thought then. In total, at least a third of the prisoners, i.e. 633, have been employed with at least a partial load of prison assistance. Indeed, the Estonian Prison Industry, which manufactures metal, wood and fabric products, is occupied by 130 prisoners, established in 2001. Of course, this number can be increased. The question is whether it is actually more profitable for society. Overall, although the prison industry has not received direct subsidies from the State in recent years, the state has supported the prison industry through the rental price of industrial buildings. The rental allowance is approximately EUR 800000 per year. My point is that the employment of prisoners will never become a revenue project. In comparison, in Finland, where the total number of prisoners is about the same size as in Estonia, the cost of the prison industry exceeds the annual income by 8 to 10 million euros. Thus, in the so-called market economy system, the employment of prisoners certainly does not have a measurable positive effect in money, because it needs to be contributed significantly more than it can be recovered as a 'production'. There are several reasons for this. First of all, the inmates working and training. They have a duty to work and can be directed to work, but the productivity they work with is not very high. Certainly not all prisoners can be sent to work because there are security risks for some, some suffer from cartel punishment and there are other such reasons. The prison industry is also demanding quite a lot of expenditure because the prisoners need supervisory authorities to guard the production buildings so that illegal goods are not brought into the prison. This, of course, increases costs. Therefore, the question is not how to earn this money back, but, above all, what is being done is to'rehabilitate the labour market'.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U48	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U49	Good manager! Good minister! You said the prisoners didn't want to work, or they didn't do it with much enthusiasm. But is there even unemployment among the prisoners? Can we talk about it? How big is it? Is it that they want to do some work, but they can't because they don't have the means to do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U50	The Ministry of Social Affairs does not directly measure the percentage of inmates' unemployment. But more seriously, I say that it is certainly more appropriate for the Minister of Justice to answer this question in which prison than there are opportunities to work freely. As has been said, a third of the prisoners are in employment during imprisonment, but it is not possible, as I have already said, for various reasons, despite the fact that there is a duty in itself. The Ministry of Social Affairs manages this part of the problem of the employment of persons released from prison. The Labour Market Services and Benefits Act also mentions the release of prisoners as a separate risk group for unemployment and provides them with additional services. Generally speaking, the employment situation of ex-cons is rather sad and poor, and employers do not want to employ them very much. Quite a large number of persons released from prison are relapsed, which means that their desire to rehabilitate to legal social life is, unfortunately, quite small. Consequently, my first reference was also to the fact that I believe that the number of prisoners in Estonia should be reduced, as there are generally no positive re-educational results in prison, which maybe a few centuries ago was believed to have been the penalty measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U52	A question for the Minister of State Administration, Arto Aasa. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The number of vehicles managed by the state has decreased over the years, but the intensity of using the remaining cars has not increased, which shows that there are still too many cars. This is what the National Audit Office says in its audit. The National Audit Office audited whether spending public money on vehicles is sustainable, transparent and verifiable and made a number of proposals. So far, the Government has sometimes taken the proposals of the National Audit Office into account, sometimes not. What about these proposals made by the National Audit Office, how and whether they are taken into account or what has been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U54	Thank you for that question. It can be said that in the Ministry of Finance, the National Audit Office and I have been well in the same direction on this issue. The Ministry of Finance has also studied the state's car park in more detail this year and our conclusions are quite similar to those of the National Audit Office. The overall picture is not at all bad: there are not too many misses, there are not very high costs. However, the management costs of public authorities are also limited and have been further reduced in recent years. It has put some natural pressure on it to manage sensibly. As far as the proposals of the Treasury Department are concerned, we are giving them a final touch right now. It is likely that, at the end of October or early November, we will go to the government office with a plan of efficiency, with a number of proposals on what could be done better. For example, the central acquisition of cars, better supervision, automatic driving diaries, joint insurance, up to the point that in certain cases it is not necessary to use operating leases, but to use financial leases. Some cars are wiser, for example, to buy out, not to lease them. In some places, you could give up your car, use a taxi service, or compensate for some personal car trips. With such a package of proposals and an improvement plan, we intend to go to government within the next month. We have done this work in cooperation with several areas, so I do not believe that there will be a very big political debate here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U55	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. At present, the law has established car price classes for civil servants. Ministers have it somewhere under 30,000, Chancellors and country elders have nearly 18,000. However, in fact, the prices of Chancellors cars are between EUR 19000 and over EUR 50000, plus VAT, and ministerial cars are less than EUR 30000 and up to EUR 62500. Why such prices and these particular differences? After all, the tasks performed by vehicles are relatively similar.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U57	Thank you. Yes, this practice is quite different. In future, we want to harmonise at what levels which vehicles should and could be used. Among other things, we want to increase central procurement. In the first half of this day there was talk about the State Support Services Centre, which would be able to acquire cars together in the future. It has to be said, however, that if the state holds 4500 vehicles in the order of magnitude, ministerial officials and ministers will have a negligible share of them. Most of the vehicles are in the Road Administration, the Rescue Department and the police. There are hundreds and thousands of vehicles. Also, in terms of economy and efficiency, these are probably the most appropriate places to start. However, our analysis of passenger cars also showed that there is a need to update certain legislation that has fallen behind in time and which no longer coincides with reality. For 20 years, some legislation has been unchanged and this work has to be done. Vehicles always generate a lot of emotions, but in fact, the cost of vehicles is not high and misuse is not much to do. So the suggestions are, as I said, on the government table within a month. It is likely that some drafts will also have to come before Parliament, then probably in the first half of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U58	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said that you intend to switch from operating lease to financial leasing for some cars. It's very positive. However, the audit of the National Audit Office states that if it were to be transferred in full, it would result in a total savings of 40%. Why do you intend to go only partially?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U60	Thank you. We need to look very closely at the use and intensity of cars in order to understand what makes it reasonable to rent a car for five years and in which case it makes sense to buy it out. That's where the difference comes in. There's no point in hitting everyone with one tree. Those cars that are used less, but what is needed, it makes sense to buy out. Those cars with life expectancy may be over in five years, but the mileage of which is great can be cheaper to rent. So it depends on the use being made. Different models are possible; at some point, the government should simply agree as a whole which model we use. I guess this is where the budget side comes in. There are some rules on operating leases, which have been able to be covered within the annual management costs. Buying out cars is a one-off cost, but at the time of the changeover, the cost to the State is quite high when the leasing payment is waived and the purchase is started. This requires a long-term plan and agreement in the country's budget strategy. This strategy will be implemented in spring for four years. Our plan is now that we go to the government with these proposals in the autumn and conclude substantive agreements, and if we have a clear plan, we will be able to start planning finance in the country's budget strategy next year. But I agree with your assessment. Such an assessment has been made by the Ministry of Finance, one has also been made if I am not mistaken, one of the master's thesis on this subject by the police, and the National Audit Office has dealt with it in the same way. Indeed, there are cases where it is more reasonable to buy out a car. Similarly, you might think about buying or giving up insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U62	The Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, will answer in the capacity of Prime Minister, asks Marika Tuus-Laul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U63	Thank you. Mr. Minister! After a year of fundamental opposition to sending Juhan Parts to the inspection room, you agreed to this overnight. We pretty much know the real reasons why this change of heart occurred. But you yourself have indicated that you are now hoping better to push through certain principles and drafts in order to get better funding for health care and alcohol projects, etc. Do you have certain agreements that you will be helped and you will receive better funding for health care, or will you just assume that you just went through with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U64	Thank you. I didn't really hear the end of the question or the line. But perhaps you were not in the Chamber when I answered another question, namely the question of Martin Helme. I said then that, in the context of any draft, it would certainly not be necessary to seek agreements of any kind. You know what you meant by saying that you know what's behind one government decision or another. But now, to come to the question, I say that, on the issue of long-term financing of health care, the members of the government and the political parties in the government agree. There can't be a very different mind. We have an ageing society and our solidarity insurance is 100% based on labour tax. Such a financing system is unsustainable in the long term and needs to be changed. This means that health care needs additional resources. Analysis and suggestions have been submitted to the Government of the Republic, I have repeatedly spoken about this in this Chamber and also in answering your questions, I am not going to repeat everything. The understanding that there is a long-term solution to this issue exists in the government. I'm sure we'll be able to make decisions in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U65	Marika Tuus-Song, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U66	Thank you. Thank you. You yourself have alluded to the link with better funding for health care; the papers contain your words in quotes. If we look at the health situation, we do not see any improvement here, but we can even see that the country's four-year budget strategy is not better, and we fear that the queues will be even longer. The medics have brought out that fear. But what do you think if the government didn't have so much skewing and throwing money into the winds of the winds of the world?Estonian Airi 79 million, the ferry procurement of the Port of Tallinn, Eesti Energia, the new government building, would it be better to have a health care situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U67	Thank you. If we look at how much the Estonian state invests in health care, we all see that we have had a very effective health care system. This means that we have put quite a few public resources in there, but we have received quite a good service in return. In view of the demographic situation, it is necessary to bring additional money into it in order to ensure health care at the current level in the future. Of course, state property must be managed prudently in all areas and areas of administration. But let's think about what the financial share of health care is. The annual budget of the Health Insurance Fund is over EUR 1 billion, and in the coming years, the current funding system will also bring significant money to health care, especially because wages in Estonia have increased faster than expected. So the assertions that the situation is getting worse and the queues are increasing are certainly not true. There is no factual confirmation of this. I think that if you want to discuss the substance of this matter, we could do it again in the Committee on Social Affairs, where we have already discussed it several times. Don't scare people by the fact that things are getting worse all the time, and eventually people startle them. But, of course, the situation is not perfect, the queues are too long and this issue needs to be resolved. As has been said, it also requires additional resources. We hope that, in cooperation with the government and the Riigikogu, we will get so far that these long-term decisions will be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U68	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U69	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! There is an acceptable indicator of how the state contributes to health care worldwide. This is the percentage of GDP that goes to healthcare. In Estonia, it has approached 6% in recent years. By comparison: in the final years of the Soviet Union, it was 4.8%, but in the so-called old European Union countries, from which we should follow suit, it is close to 10%. About a year ago, this percentage was promised to be 6.1 by 2016 but when the state budget was presented, it turned out to be 5.2. It's a tough one. It's 1% 200 million. It is now said that this is about GDP growth and keeping the percentage the same. However, where was the 200 million then, why was it not aimed at health care?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U70	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu Viktor Vassilyev, member of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu and also member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund! You know the answer to this question very well, even if it is because I have repeatedly referred to it from this very speaker. This 1% hasn't gone anywhere. There are just two components in this methodology. One is the total cost of society in monetary equivalent as compared to GDP and the other is the total public expenditure as compared to GDP. This difference between 4.8% and 6% or 5.1% and 6.3% is the own contribution of patients. This is the amount that the Estonian people themselves contribute to health care. So public money for health care has certainly not decreased. However, it is clear that it has not increased to the extent necessary to cover all necessary healthcare. As regards health care in Estonia, it can certainly be said that this model has been very well managed. The fact that there is funding for a health insurance fund based on a specific tax base in Estonia has been the strongest guarantor of the stability of this system. This has meant that, together with the improvement in the economic situation, tax money has come up. It has provided an opportunity to collect the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund, which will be made in good years in order to use them in more difficult years. So there has been no reduction in public funding, nor will it happen next year when the social tax is reduced by 0.5%, because it will also be compensated by law according to a specific model. But in the final view, these percentages are of course true, and more money is needed in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U72	Four minutes to the end of Question Time. We hope that Külliki Kübarsepp will be able to ask and the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, will be responsible for the Prime Minister's duties. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U73	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Since the presidential election, people from the IRL have received surprisingly many places. As experienced politicians in the coalition with the IRL and Reform Party, didn't you agree to sign up to the coalition treaty to politicise non-political places? If the motion of censure goes through, would you put that provision in the coalition agreement if you were in the new coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U74	I didn't quite understand the substance of the question. After all, people from different political backgrounds are still moving forward in life, some are leaving politics, some of the people in the front lines, such as politicians from IRL background, have established a new political party and received it in the ranks of the Riigikogu. I think there's nothing wrong with this political background and history. Well, life goes on and people find a new place to live. Based on that, I don't think we should make decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U75	Well, Hatter, this is the Question Time of the Republic Government. Please, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U76	Thank you. But the government is still made up of representatives of political parties. I'm asking you as a person in the office of Prime Minister. Strategic question: why did you still take this urgent government meeting on Monday morning, when the new president took an oath at lunch on the same day? It completely suffocated this whole process and left a pretty bad taste for the new president to take office. As the representative of your government, you had said very clearly for a very long time that the Parts were not a suitable person in your opinion. Why did the government take this responsibility strategically, making this urgent decision on Monday morning, instead of leaving a mental break just in time for the new president to take office?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U77	Your assessment that somehow the new Estonian Head of State has been squirted, I do not share. I have not, frankly, noticed anyone sharing this assessment outside the Free Party, but of course you are still right about this assessment. As far as timing is concerned, I say otherwise. The reason why the government had to make this decision quickly was precisely because the representative of Estonia in the European Court of Auditors took up a new post, which left this place empty. The international credibility of the Estonian state was also questioned. The high international positions in which we are represented should certainly not be left empty. I think it is very reasonable that the government also signalled to international partners that we have a candidate who can quickly proceed with official procedures and fill this place.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U78	Thank you, Külliki Hatter, the second question was exactly what the government was doing! I will conclude on this issue. Thank you, ministers. Thank you, Riigikogu! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U79	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the Wednesday session of the 4th working week. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U80	Honorable manager! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The President of the Republic, Kersti Kaljulaid, who has recently taken office, has stressed on several occasions that it is crucial for the Estonian economy to break out of the trap of the "average income." One way to do this is to encourage the creation of high-paid jobs. On Monday, I was able to introduce you to the report prepared in this Chamber by the Ministry of Justice, where a number of business organisations, but, I would point out, also the representatives of the ministries, say that one great opportunity to create high-paid jobs and to bring innovation to the economy through well-motivated and high-paid people is still the same social tax ceiling that has been said for a long time. Yes, the Free Party remembers that we have discussed this issue once both in the Commission and in this Chamber. In the meantime, however, we have all become aware of new economic forecasts, which are not very positive. The government has said that the biggest target for next year's budget and, in general, for helping the economy to develop more quickly. That is why we offer the possibility of reopening the debate on the introduction of a social tax ceiling. I am handing over the draft Act supplementing the Social Tax Act on behalf of the Free Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U81	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U82	Honourable Chairman! Colleagues! I have an inquiry for Maris Lauri from the Ministry of Education, or the Minister of Education. Inquiry is based on teachers' salary and working hours. Now that everyone is getting their paychecks up again, this is a topical issue. First of all, I will give away the definition of how the Ministry of Education defines a teacher's job. The teacher has a full - time job, has a reduced working day, seven hours a day, or 35 astronomical hours a week. That's all. Now I'm gonna mark two more things. There was a big talk here about teachers working under-time at 0.82 posts. That's the way it is, but according to the job being done, the teacher's load is over 1.0. This 0.82 is due to the lack of funding. I illustrate that statement. The teacher's minimum wage guaranteed by the State is EUR 958. Let's multiply it by 0.82 and we get 785 euros. So the state guarantees the teacher EUR 785 per month. But now the state takes the right to say that the teacher's average salary is 1149 euros. Here's the contradiction: 35 hours a week, the state pays EUR 785 and what's more than that, it gets the teacher's extra job done, but the state takes the right to say 'average salary' to show off. This is the kind of question I ask the Minister of Education to answer in order to clarify the world. 3% of 700 euros is how much? Twenty-one euros. So, teachers, welcome, your salary will be 21 euros. Hooray! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U83	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U84	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I have the honour of handing over the draft law amending the Law Enforcement Act. This is the draft we have been waiting for since the beginning of last year, when the Minister of Justice promised to come up with the draft banning the wearing of burka and nikabi. Unfortunately, to this day, this bill has not come from the government, so we took the matter into our own hands. Foreign perceptions, foreign traditions, different attitudes towards people, especially women, are coming to Europe in connection with the current immigration crisis. An absolutely direct example of their persecution and harassment is precisely the wearing of burka and nikabi. The Koran of Islam does not regulate the wearing of burka or nikab; its prohibition cannot be regarded as a violation of religious freedom, constitutional rights or human rights. This was also stated by the European Court of Human Rights in 2014, when the ban on burka in France was considered. This is also very important from a security point of view. In very many countries, the wearing of burka is already prohibited because it is not possible to identify the person wearing burka, especially in the case of video monitoring. In some countries this ban has been done, in some countries it is currently being done. We will therefore hand over the draft banning the wearing of burka and nikaab in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U85	If the two drafts transferred and one inquiry comply with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, then we will deal with them. Let's do a presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U86	The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft eID and trust services Act 237 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. No requests, let's go to the final vote. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Dear Riigikogu, let us talk to each other in such a way as not to disturb our colleagues! Thank you. Since the adoption of Bill 237 as a law requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we are conducting a verification of the presence. There are 86 members of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law 237 on e-ID and trust services for e-transactions initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft act, no one opposed, with one abstention. The eIdentification and Trust Services Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U87	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the acquisition, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs initiated by the Government of the Republic and the State Fees Act 278. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, initiating waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U88	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the number 278 of the bill initiated by the Government of the Republic, i.e. the draft law amending the law on the acquisition, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs and state fees. The bill transposes two European Commission directives into Estonian law. The aim is to ensure that cells and tissues imported from countries outside the European Union and the European Economic Area, so-called third countries, comply with the safety and quality standards established in the European Union. The deadline for transposition is 29 October. The transfer of biological material of human origin to cells, tissues, and organs is the only way to save life in the treatment of certain diseases. However, the clinical use of cells, tissues and organs is very medically complicated and associated with serious risks. Cell, tissue and organ deficits are a global problem in both clinical activity and research. Unfortunately, the shortage of cells, tissues and organs suitable for transplantation also contributes to unethical and illegal activities in this area, which in turn leads to the issue of the quality and safety of cells and tissues suitable for transplantation. The draft will help to ensure the safety and quality of biological material of human origin and transparency of handling. For information, nine companies are currently involved in the processing of cells and tissues in Estonia, two of whom are involved in importing cells and tissues from third countries. I am talking about the most important changes that will be made under European directives in our national law. Firstly, the requirements relating to the traceability of cells and tissues are clarified. One of the most important things here is that the coding of cells and tissues provides for the application of a common European code. In addition, rules for the import of cells and tissues from third countries will be established and the Agency will be obliged to register the suppliers and operators of cells and tissues authorised in the European Union tissue establishment register established by the European Commission. To some extent international organ exchange requirements will be relaxed and a state fee will be imposed for the examination of an application for an import certificate for cells and tissues. Now I am going to talk a little bit more about some of the most important changes. According to the draft, the Agency shall register in the European Union tissue establishment register all licences issued in Estonia for the procurement and handling of cells and tissues, and the European Union tissue establishment register shall establish a unique identification number for the contracting authority or operator when registering the authorisation for the procurement or treatment of cells or tissues. It aims to ensure better traceability, quality and safety of cells and tissues procured and handled within the European Union. The draft also provides that a supplier or operator of cells or tissues may only import from third countries on the basis of an import certificate issued by the Agency. It lays down rules for the issue and withdrawal of an import certificate and provides for a national fee for examining an application for an import certificate of EUR 340. The import certificate is normally valid with the authorisation issued to the contracting authority or operator and is a multiple authorisation for the importation of cells and tissues into the European Union and into the European Economic Area. In addition, the Agency may carry out further inspections of the operator of cells or tissues located outside the European Union and the European Economic Area in relation to the import activities of the Estonian cell or tissue supplier or operator, as well as in case of doubt that the safety and quality standards established in the European Union are not met. To this end, the contracting authority or operator of the Estonian cells or tissues shall enter into a written agreement with the contracting authority or operator of the third country to ensure that the Agency has the right to inspect the activities and premises of the third country supplier, including during the period of validity of the written agreement on the spot and within two years after its expiry. According to the draft, the maximum amount of penalty for non-compliance with an injunction under national supervision will be increased from EUR 1800 to EUR 9600 and the financial penalty for non-compliance with the requirements for the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs will also be increased tenfold to EUR 3200 to EUR 32000 for the legal person. The relaxation of international organ exchange requirements can also be highlighted, which enables the development of pair transplantation capabilities in Estonia. Just so you know, there were 52 people in Estonia waiting for kidney transplantation as of June 1 of this year. Of these, 11 were highly sensitized according to the Scandiatransplant criteria of the Nordic organ exchange organisation; for the second time 24 persons were expected to have a new kidney, and four were expected to have a third time. The 11 persons registered on the waiting list for kidney transplantation are, in fact, the only way to get a suitable donor based on the international exchange of organs. It can be said that the draft will certainly contribute to increasing the safety of biological material of human origin and will contribute to improving its quality and transparency of handling. It is therefore a good bill. I ask the Riigikogu to support this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U89	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I got my ear. I tore my ears as I kept hearing the word 'behaviour'. In Estonian, handling means the same as processing. Wouldn't it be better to use the word 'use' here? Has consultation been asked about the use of this term or its word from the Institute of the Estonian Language?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U91	Thank you. I can't tell if it's been asked or not. But I have to say that the word 'treatment' in the sense that it is meant to carry out any transport of an object and to carry out several procedures with it, is used in our bureaucratic language, and it is also expected that the same word has been used in the translations of European materials. I believe that the members of the Riigikogu will be able to hold a discussion between the two readings of the draft on this subject. But, as has been said, this is a rather widespread concept both in the Estonian legal order and in the European bureaucratic jargon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U92	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U93	Good manager! Good minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the rules on international organ exchange are relaxing. Talk a little about how they relax and ease and what is the current state of tissue storage in Estonia, both for the European Union and for other countries. There's a regulation already in force here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U94	Thank you. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you the state of the storeroom, I can tell you that cells and tissues, but especially organs are generally not stored for very long periods. They are obtained for the purpose of being used for the benefit of specific patients, unless they are used for research which is another purpose of importing, exporting or handling them. Both globally and in Estonia, we can certainly talk about organ deficiency. People wait a very long time in line to get new organs. In answer to the first part of the question, relaxing the requirements for international organ exchange means that, if, at present, only organs from dead donors can be used for international organ exchange, then, once the law enters into force, there will be an opportunity to exchange organs from living donors internationally. This is particularly the case with kidney mediation and transplantation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U95	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. An example of kidney donation helped to clarify the meaning of the draft. But in the purely self-esteem sense, I wonder if you can also name other health problems that this law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs contributes to solving.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U97	Thank you. Unfortunately, I don't know how to educate you because I'm not a doctor from education either, which is why I don't know how to bring out all the medical references to you. As far as I know, and according to my really limited medical knowledge, there are many uses, because apart from organs, we are indeed talking about cells and tissues. There has also been quite a major scientific innovation in this area recently. But yes, I owe you the answer right now, or I will not improvise the Riigikogu's speech chair on the basis of my superficial medical knowledge. I'm sure I'm ready to clarify that if I want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U98	Thank you, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski! The Commission's rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U99	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this topic at its meeting on 26 September. Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs Jaanus Põldmaa and Specialist of the Medicines Agency Siim Suutre were invited. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs presented to the Commission the draft law amending the Law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs and the State Fees Act 278. The draft will transpose into Estonian law two European Commission directives to ensure that cells and tissues imported from third countries comply with the European Union's safety and quality standards. A presentation by a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was heard, and the members of the committee also asked a number of questions. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 12 October 2016, to propose the completion of the first reading, to propose a deadline of 10 working days for the submission of amendments and to appoint Aivar Kokk as rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U100	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U101	Good manager! Good waitress! I ask, in the interests of self-education, what about the state fees for the tissues and organs you discussed there. I remember the last time we wanted to meet a million state fees here, there was a 'behind' reunion to get it together and divide it between 'all'. How does the increase in state fees apply to these bodies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U102	Thank you for your question. I must admit, sadly, that there was no talk of state fees in the Commission and that no increase in state fees would result in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U103	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The first reading of Bill 278 has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 26 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U104	The first reading of the draft Act amending the 2016 State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The initiating waitress is Secretary of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll give you an overview of the bill bearing number 296. This is a draft law amending the 2016 State Budget Act. Following a responsible fiscal policy, the Estonian Government refrains from making positive additional budgets. With the amendments before you, the total amount of expenditure and revenue of the state budget will not change, but will specify the expenditure of ministries and other bodies for the current year. In the same way, the state budget for the current year will be amended every autumn. In making these changes, we have been guided by the principle that public money must be used sensibly and purposefully. As this year's state budget has been drawn up last autumn and some funding needs have changed, it is appropriate to change the state budget in order to better meet the objectives of the ministries. The changes before you are intended to use the resources released during the year due to changes in expenditure forecasts to address the country's pressing problems. The state as a whole is not going to increase, but we can also make other costs with the means of releasing them. The money is mainly released from the following places. In the area of the Ministry of the Interior, about 16 million euros will be released due to the specification of the construction costs of the eastern border, because the purchase of land from the owners and consequently other activities have been delayed. In the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs, 430000 euros more than the actual cost of child care services for children with severe and profound disabilities is planned. In the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, EUR 7.5 million was released for road maintenance costs. If we ask where the government wants the money to go, then our proposals are as follows. I'll bring out the basics. Firstly, we propose to allocate EUR 3 million to alleviate the difficult economic situation of milk and pigmeat producers. This aid to milk and pigmeat producers is part of a larger package, which is also planned for 4.6 million in 2017 with the state budget. This will be accompanied by exceptional assistance from the European Union, amounting to EUR 8 million. We therefore want to grant farmers over EUR 15 million in emergency aid in the coming years. In the area of government of the Ministry of Culture, we propose to increase subsidies of 4 million euros for Estonian National Broadcasting, as the construction of the National Broadcasting Newshouse can be completed this year. In addition, we propose that an additional EUR 700000 be allocated to national broadcasting so that it can obtain the new mobile transmission station, i.e. telebus technical equipment, as the old transmission station has been depreciated. In the area of administration of the Ministry of Education and Research, we propose that EUR 3.2 million be allocated in order to enable scientific libraries to have access to scientific databases in 2017 by paying royalties this year. In the area of government of the Ministry of Justice, we propose to allocate EUR 300000 for the purchase of medicines to detainees. In the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, we propose to allocate 2 million Narva Hospital and Põlva Hospitals to better link them to the national hospital network. In the area of the Ministry of Defence, we propose that the budget be specified so that, according to the approved procurement plan, EUR 9.8 million of management costs would go to the acquisition of special equipment for defence purposes. We propose that 7.5 million euros from the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should initially be allocated to Estonian Railways in order to ensure the sustainability of railway infrastructure. We also propose to channel EUR 250000 from the Ministry of the Interior's budget to obtain protective clothing for rescuers. Honourable Riigikogu! I promised by handing over the 2016 budget that the government would act in a budget-making and fiscally responsible manner. I promised that the state budget would be in structural surplus in 2016 and that public finances would be in good order at the end of 2016. I said that conservative fiscal policy is Estonia's strength, not its weakness. The revenue planned for this year's state budget will be in the expected amount. Revenues have been received in eight months at 5.72 billion euros, or 64.8% of what was planned for the year. Expenditure has been made in the same period of EUR 5.6 billion, which is 62% of the year planned. The Ministry of Finance forecasts that this year's general government budget will remain nominally surplus with 0.4% of Estonia's forecast GDP and that the structural position of the government sector will remain surplus at the forecast level of 1.2% of Estonia's forecast GDP. The government's policy is that we don't make extra budgets. We will not make an extra budget this year either. As a result of the bill before you, I repeat, the cost of the state will not increase. The Estonian budget and monetary policy continue to be conservative and we are going to the 2017 procedure with public finances. Finally, in addition to the changes proposed by you, the 2016 budget supports the growth of the Estonian economy and prosperity, as planned by the government in doing this budget. This budget increases the economic security of families with children, pensioners and people receiving lower wages and increases Estonia's defence capacity. Dear Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to support the draft submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U106	Questions for the originator's waitress. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U107	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! My question relates precisely to what you have just mentioned by directing money from road storage to rail. I'm gonna take a little tour of the past. At the beginning of the century, the three-way alliance decided to privatise the Estonian Railway. Soon one of the most liberal coalitions of all time, consisting of the Reform Party and the Central Party, came to power and wisely decided to buy back the railroad, because why would the money from the railway go to some disgusting capital if it could go to the state? We already paid for last year's budget, right, on the railroad. We are now putting 7.5 million in there, and if I remember correctly, there will be at least 4 million in the budget for next year. What is the perspective here for the coming years, let's say, in terms of a country's budgetary strategy? How much money can we be required to maintain the railway?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U108	Thank you. The approach to your question is a little wider than the changes to this year's budget, you want to approach what the perspective of Estonian Railways might be more philosophically. It would certainly be easier for me to say that let us address this issue in a separate question. But since you've opened up this subject knowing me, I'm still trying to share my thoughts with you here in a few words. True, the situation with the railroad is that the state has never sold it and then bought it back. Now the situation is that the state has separated the "infra" and the "cargo," let's say so. Today, these are two different companies. Of course, we can discuss whether this buy-back was meaningful, especially in a situation where turnover and freight transport have clearly decreased. The current management is working towards this, and I have also understood from the Minister for Economic Affairs that it is being worked out to really increase them. The volume of freight transport has fallen well below the daily income level, i.e. every month, and each quarter actually produces minus for the company. Management is working to get out of this situation, i.e. to increase trade flows. It is true that, if, in some earlier period, rail was an additional source of revenue for the State because of dividends, today, as you yourself stated in your question, the state will have to pay off to make the rail work. That's the situation. It is certainly the duty of the State to ensure that the infrastructure is able to function and that the few trade flows that are currently there are still moving. This means that, given the current trade flows, the country will be forced to pay up, as you rightly mentioned, both this year and next year. According to my information, indeed, the Minister of Economic Affairs is working with the Estonian Railway Management to increase trade flows. What are these specific activities, which can be asked in the form of an inquiry if necessary. But I note that over time, the company has become a more money-seeker than a dividend payer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U109	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U110	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You said it was a responsible fiscal policy. How responsible is it to re-distribute money when we know that national reserves are gradually decreasing? Would it not be wise to place this money in reserve instead? Then we could talk about responsible monetary policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U111	Thank you. You should take a position on which side you are trying to represent. Your views have been very eclectic over time. Sometimes you say in your questions that the state should channel more money into the economy and ask why we hold such a position that we do not put more money in it. Next thing you know, you're gonna say, oh-oh-oh, we should pick up the money from the market and increase the reserves. You should agree with yourself which position you really want to defend, and then you could be in that position to the end. Otherwise, it's very difficult to talk to you when you say the same thing at first, but then you change your position. However, I will also try to answer the question. First, over the years, the Estonian state has maintained this position that there should be a structural balance or surplus. Also this year, as I said in 2016, you will see a structural surplus, but also a nominal surplus. I would remind you that in the last six years, the state budget has been planned with a negative nominal position and in four out of six years it has actually left a surplus. Please note that if there have been surpluses, even in the case of this year's example, there will be no additional budget. No, I didn't. I just stressed that. We will not make an additional budget, although this option would actually be. This clearly shows that this is responsible budgetary planning.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U112	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The bill allocates EUR 1430000 to the State Chancellery, due to the earlier shift of the Presidency. How much of this 1.4 million will actually be spent this year? There's only two months left, November and December. Officials can be hired quickly and paid two months' wages or receive any training. What part of this amount is still the cost for 2016 and what part is the cost for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U114	Thank you. It would certainly be best to ask the administration of the State Chancellery. We are based on the fact that these costs are currently being spent. Next year we will also have accrual-based accounting. We still follow this logic so that, in the context of these changes, whoever receives this money will be able to make these costs in a given financial year. I have no idea that they want to see it in any other way. My answer to you is that, in the light of current information, the State Chancellery should make all these expenses this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U115	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U116	Thank you. Mr Secretary of Finance. In your report, I didn't hear a word about the State Department. I went through the explanatory statement. It's about almost every ministry except the State Department. Perhaps you can comment on how the use of money in this ministry has gone in nine months?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U117	Thank you. I will take this issue even more broadly. When we look at the palette and the number of amendments, we see that this is 83 amendments. No changes have been made to the budget of the three institutions: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of the Environment and Office of the President of the Republic. No changes are foreseen in their budgets. Consequently, they have been planning their expenditure on the basis of the fact that the expenditure foreseen will also be spent in the designated place, there is nothing left over, and there has been no need for "transferable" amounts in the context of different areas of government. So the three institutions have not brought any changes to the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U118	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U119	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you for your proverbs. I guess they're good for life. But I'll just get you a few numbers. In 2014, the reserves of the Estonian central government were 1.2 billion, but by the end of next year we will have 535 million reserves. Can this be considered responsible for dealing with the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U120	Thank you. Look, you have to look at two things at once. You have to look at the reserves, and you have to look at the loan relationship. In itself, it is possible to increase reserves very quickly and very easily by taking additional loans and transferring them to reserves. You must follow two proportions at the same time: what is the ratio of loans to GDP and what is the level of reserves compared to GDP. These are two combinations that go hand in hand. Make sure you look at the other side.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U121	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. For several years, the government's priority has been to network hospitals. This principle can be supported. To my great surprise, however, I found in the bill that for both Narva Hospital and Põlva Hospital, an amount of EUR 1 million has been found for both. Narva Hospital found this money on the line of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but I was concerned that the budget for vaccines is the source of cover when Põlva Hospital was seduced by the University of Tartu Hospital. We have heard the concerns of the Minister for Health and Labour that we do not have enough resources to include, for example, cervical cancer vaccines on the national vaccination list. Now we are giving this EUR 1 million in favour of networking. Do you think that's reasonable? Perhaps, though, it would make sense to leave the vaccine budget still for vaccines?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U123	Thank you. We are still talking in the context of a specific budget, the 2016 budget. We will look at the estimated costs that have been expected and at the level of the cost base that will occur by the end of the year. Changing positions within the budget does not mean that money is taken away from someone in such a way that nothing is done. Rather, ministers have clearly seen what the real cost of one or the other position will be by the end of the year. It is not about someone getting less money because of this, but rather about the estimated cost by the end of the year, how much was actually spent on one position or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U124	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The budget for next year is planned for growth at 2.5%. You came up with a similar prediction a year ago, but the reality showed that it was clearly too optimistic. The actual increase will be 1%. Why the optimism that next year growth will be 2.5%? Does it have any real reasons, or has it been found by an architectural method, or has it been viewed in the ceiling and said that it is a beautiful number?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U126	Thank you, good questioner! You know, we could talk about all kinds of things on our own today. I will try to answer this question immediately, but I call on you to remain within the limits of the changes to the 2016 budget. When we start talking about the 2017 budget, we will come to this issue. On 26 October, it will be possible to hold a proper debate on what changes we want to make next year, why we want to do them and what expectations we will therefore have. So we're going to have a proper debate round. I hope we're having a discussion between us for hours and hours. I will then try to talk you all down and convince you that next year's budget is good and should be supported. But it's all coming on October 26th, as I understand it. But I'm still trying to answer you to some extent. I would never question the original data of the forecasters, and I would advise you not to. I've said half the jokes that I'm not going to go into that forecaster's room, literally, so that there's no situation where the minister is going to influence the lights of one or another forecaster. We should certainly monitor the outcome of the analysts, or forecasters, of the Ministry of Finance compared to that of other analysts and forecasters. This should be the identity we're supposed to be watching here. Then we should think about whether this is an optimistic or conservative forecast. I can assure you that there are also the facts on paper that, compared to the estimates of other forecasters, the European Commission, the OECD, commercial banks, the Ministry of Finance's forecast, which is based on the state budget, is not optimistic. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U127	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U128	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will clarify my question on this so-called 'networking'. The networking of hospitals was actually decided at least a year or two ago, which means that it is also known which hospitals are expected to seduce. Do I understand correctly or correctly that the government nevertheless hoped that there would be money left over, and then it would be possible to cover the costs of networking Narva Hospital and Põlva Hospital? Obviously, by making the 2016 state budget, these hospitals were already known to be networked with North-Estonian Regional Hospital or the University of Tartu Hospital. Was it a surprise to you that you need to find a million for both of us now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U129	Thank you. No, it wasn't a surprise. Rather, this is about transferring the additional needs of 2017 to 2016, otherwise we would have provided for this by 2017, but now we have seen that we can bring them to 2016. So it's always been on the government agenda. Rather, it could be said that there is a coverage of these costs from the potential revenue bases of 2016, which have also been counted, and we will be able to make these expenses this year. This is no surprise, otherwise these amounts would have been in the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U130	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! There are interesting moments. Two councillors of the Supreme Court are assigned to the district court and each has to be paid 660 euros per month. But you want to give detention facilities and the Ministry of Justice an additional EUR 5 000 each for the staff commitment study. In prisons, the study of commitment costs nearly EUR 40,000 and the Ministry of Justice costs EUR 7,000, plus now EUR 5,000. What is this commitment study in prisons and the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U132	Thank you. The Minister has clearly pointed out as one of the priorities that money should be channelled there. Naturally, to go deeper and to specify what possible metrics might be and what this particular commitment is, will certainly be a minister in a specific area. But this has been his priority, which is now also seen in the changes to the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U133	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U134	Good minister! I was excited by the exciting discussion we just heard here. There were a number of interesting moments, but I was especially forced to join the debate in your answer to the first question of Tarmo Tamme. You were surprised that a person did not ask the same question as if it had been predestined, but could ask questions on the one hand and on the other. Do you agree that in a parliamentary state, a Member may ask questions to a member of the government which it did not anticipate, but which he must answer correctly? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U135	Thank you. It turns me on to turn you on. I think we take the excitement down and talk constructively with questions and answers. I have always tried to answer all the questions, including those that do not concern the specific draft. However, it is often the case that the introduction to the question causes contradiction, and then I try to draw attention to it. It's easier to answer if there's no contradiction. But, of course, it is possible for Members to change their positions every hour; it is not forbidden to anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U136	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U137	Good manager! Good minister! I am still thrilled by this commitment study among the prison guards and the officials of the Ministry of Justice, which excites the Minister of Justice. What is this dedication study about? Is it worth doing the job for the warden or the Justice Department official?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U138	Thank you. The Ministry of Finance is currently not specifically involved in the deeper content of one or the other financial move. Here is the question of whether this is a priority for one ministry or another and whether there is money for it. If there are budgetary resources and if this is clearly identified as a priority for the Minister for Industry, then no one has a question and this money can be allocated to it. If it wasn't a priority or if it wasn't a financial capacity, then it would be quite another matter. So if you are more deeply interested in what commitment or devotion has been in one issue or another, make sure you make a direct request to the Minister in this area. I think he'll be happy to answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U139	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Looking at this bill, I noticed that the right number of ministries are asking for their expenses to be raised to the Riigi Kinnisvara AS line. There are probably different reasons. In this light, how do you, to whom Riigi Kinnisvara AS is subject, evaluate the entire financial activities of Riigi Kinnisvara AS if the funds are now added to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U141	Thank you, good Krista! This is once again a subject that could be discussed further and that could be the subject of a great deal of further questions, but I will try to open it up in a few words. The Ministry of Finance itself holds the responsibility of Riigi Kinnisvara AS and, more specifically, it is subordinate to the Minister of Public Administration. The Minister of State Administration is the general meeting of the RKAS, which also takes certain decisions. Let's look at the concept of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, why it was created. It did not, to some extent, aim to concentrate state assets, mainly real estate, in a single set, just as the state currently does with accounting services, for example, which it concentrates in a single set in the context of state support services. The aim has been to gather competence in one place. This leads to a better price for procurement because of the volume effect and the higher level of competence. Not every ministry needs to keep its real estate specialist, to say the word, on the payroll. I might be wrong, I'm guessing right now, but I think maybe two thirds of the country's real estate is now under the RKAS, but you could specify that. Riigi Kinnisvara AS is designed to bring competence to one place together. Then the state will have a better overview of what real estate it needs, and it will make it possible to decide whether it is right to renovate or realise existing real estate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U142	Thank you, Minister of Finance Sven Sester! The Commission's rapporteur is Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U143	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, A similar substantive, bright and exciting dialogue on this year's budget changes took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 27 September. As here today, there were questions to be answered by Minister of Finance Sven Sester. The detailed content of the draft was already described by the minister to you. All these changes will amount to EUR 20 million, but in quantitative terms 98 so-called redeployments will be made in the budget. It is a common practice to adjust the current budget at the end of the year. This 20 million is good in the sense that annual budget planning in ministries has become much more precise. The Committee on Monetary Affairs is also pleased about this. The questions we discussed in the Commission were not exactly one hundred percent of what was discussed in this Chamber today. There was a question about the transfer of sums from the Road Administration to the Estonian Railways, which the Minister has already explained here. We also talked about planning grants for the Ministry of Social Affairs. I just said that it has become much more accurate to plan the subsidies that the Ministry of Social Affairs is paying out. The Commission was consensual and acted in the utmost harmony. We had a proposal to put the draft on the agenda today; this proposal was adopted by consensus. Similarly, the decision to propose the termination of the first reading was taken in a consensual manner. The Committee on Monetary Affairs proposes that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 19 October. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U144	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. They do not exist at first reading. Thank you, Remo Holsmer! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 296. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 19 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U145	The first reading of the Bill 260 of Amendment of § 100 of the Gambling Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Initiator waitress, finance minister Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll give you an overview of the bill bearing 260. This is a draft amendment to § 100 of the Gambling Act. The proposed amendment to the bill will allow criminal sanctions to be reintroduced against the perpetrators of betting. By betting, we understand a situation where individuals who can influence the course of the sports competition, such as athletes, judges or coaches, contribute to the outcome of the competition with betting operators and then try to achieve the desired result by unfair means. So there will be a "stolen" meeting, which will result in both honest wagers and betting operators suffering, while trust in sport and an audience interested in fair play will suffer first and foremost. The Ministry of Finance and the Public Prosecutor's Office have so far acted in the knowledge that it is possible to punish persons for betting on the basis of the composition of the Penal Code, which provides for a financial penalty or a maximum term of imprisonment of three years. Last year, however, the judge found that this was not possible because of the so-called'speciality principle'. In fact, the Gambling Act provides for a criminal penalty of up to 20 fine units to be imposed on a person who participates in a bet and who is affected or has the possibility to influence the occurrence of the predicted event, and, since the composition is more accurate than that of the Penal Code, the Court considers that it must be implemented. Given that wager fraud is considered to be the greatest threat to sport today, this class is not a sufficient punishment and does not have the necessary preventive effect. Against this background, the Gambling Act will be clarified, expressly stating that this misdemeanour will only apply if the composition of the scam mentioned in the Penal Code has not been complied with at the same time. In 2014, the Council of Europe opened the Convention on Combating the Manipulation of Sport Results, which was signed by Estonia on 19 September 2016 and which also requires the parties to be punished in criminal proceedings. By adopting the bill as a law, we can take the first step towards ratifying the Convention, which will allow possible agreements to be brought to the attention of the law enforcement authorities. The law enters into force in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U147	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U148	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I take this extremely pleasant opportunity to discuss football with the Minister. In my opinion, the explanatory memorandum does not reveal exactly how widely we now have wager fraud in Estonia and whether this unpleasant trend is growing. Of course, some have been read through the media, but do you know more about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U149	Thank you. I still don't have any more information than I've had from the media. It's always a question of what to compare with. Compared to the fact that at some point these frauds were not, or at least they were not, registered or disclosed, such things were not known, you could say that there are now a number of cases that have found real proof. This shows that the subject on the table today is topical. All the more so, the judge has also pointed out that it is not a crime but a misdemeanor. That's why we're here today. We are looking at trends in the world, because Estonia is part of both Europe and the world. Unfortunately, we have to admit that there have been and will certainly be agreements in different types of sport. I think that all organisations must work together to discover such agreements as early as possible. If I am not mistaken, there have also been occasions in Estonia when the game has been canceled because it has been seen that unnatural bets have been made just before the game started. I understand that all parties are interested in discovering such a thing, except those who commit these frauds. Everyone else is interested in this, including the betting environments where these bets are made. This is certainly a common concern of all parties. The same is true of paying taxes. The interest of all operators is that the tax environment is as fair as possible and that no one would gain a competitive advantage by not paying taxes. It's an analogous situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U150	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I read the explanatory memorandum to the bill. Almost immediately at the beginning of this, it is said that the draft has not drawn up a plan for development. This has not been done because the draft does not bring about a significant change in the situation. However, it can be said that the situation is still changing, because instead of misdemeanour, we are starting to talk about a different type of offence, a crime. There is also one court settlement that has led us to make this change. This is a bit strange, because the Minister of Justice has said that he will not coordinate any draft legislation if the intention to develop has not been made. Perhaps you can explain a little or explain why it has not been done? Is this an urgent matter or simply a desire to make it easier to adopt the following drafts as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U152	Thank you. On the one hand, this is an urgent draft because I think it is in all our interests to fix the new situation. On the other hand, it is a renewal of old knowledge. After all, it was still lived knowing that if you commit wager fraud, it will result in a maximum sentence of up to three years in prison. What, though, has been revealed? In practice, the law does not allow it to be implemented. We are now recreating the knowledge we had before. As a result, the Minister of Justice has agreed that the draft does not need a separate development plan and does not need to go through the whole process. After all, we are recreating a situation that we have actually assumed that it has been there all along.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U153	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U154	Mr. President! Dear Minister, This draft is case-by-case. It is known that betting is often international. They're dealt with by hidden organizations, who also have black money in their hands. What is Estonia going to do, given the events currently taking place in international football, which are linked to the mismovement of money, so that such cases, should they occur to us, can be dealt with in criminal terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U155	Thank you. That's a good question. The answer is the same bill you have on your desk. This is a clear measure to ensure that such possible future actions are punishable by criminal penalties.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U156	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U157	Good manager! Good minister! I don't do gambling. I know Toto is a rock band in the U.S. that performed in the city hall in 1999. Explain to me what this toto-playing is and who these players are, stupid or.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U158	This has nothing to do with a rock band, and the book Totu Bullet has nothing to do with it. Toto's the essence of a bet deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U159	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U160	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, both in this Chamber and in the workshops! Dear Minister, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs at its meeting on 26 September 2016. In addition to the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Minister of Finance Sven Sester and the lawyer of the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy of the Ministry of Finance Taivo Põrk took part in the meeting of the Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Minister also gave an overview of the draft and why it was needed. Indeed, the reason is one particular court settlement. This gives an indication of the extent of this phenomenon, as no criminal offence has been sought in such cases in the past. So the same one and only case is what caused this bill. Indeed, this principle, which the Minister mentioned, applies in law. The Court also acknowledged that there were, in fact, signs of an offence corresponding to the composition of the fraud, but this "speciality principle" requires that, if there is a rule of wrongdoing, this specific rule of misconduct be applied. In both case law and legal literature, there is a view that the composition of a misdemeanour may be excluded from the composition of a criminal offence, provided that these rules are specific and that the composition of a misdemeanour is a special rule. The Tallinn Circuit Court found that despite the existence of the signs of the offence corresponding to the composition of the fraud, a misdemeanour has to be applied. The interpretation of the law should certainly not be limited to a decision of the district court, but the prosecutor's office submitted a cassation after the acquittal judgment of the district court which the Supreme Court did not take into consideration. Thus, the Supreme Court has also assessed this matter. Why is this bill urgent? Indeed, it can be said that the penalty for betting is ridiculous. According to the current Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, a maximum of 20 fine units is possible. One fine unit is EUR 4, so the maximum penalty for betting is EUR 80. This is a laughing point and, in that sense, a change is necessary here. But there is certainly no reason to blame the legislator, because until that decision of the district court, we lived in the knowledge that this scam was applicable, but this judgment has shown that this is not the case. I consider it necessary to inform the members of the Riigikogu that, in addition to this amendment, two other amendments to the Gambling Act have been received. However, since they did not come from the government, we naturally did not consider it right or possible to send this draft government to the Chamber in a modified form, but the Commission discussed these two amendments. We have not made a final decision, but if we find a consensus, we intend to table them in the Chamber as amendments to the Committee on Economic Affairs at first reading. However, I will present to you the two amendments that were discussed at the committee meeting so that you could start thinking about them earlier. The first amendment, apart from the one made by the Government of the Republic, has been made by Eesti Loto. Its wording is as follows, that may not be arranged totot, the result of which depends on the lottery results. Toto, indeed, as the Minister said, is a bet. But to make it even easier to understand, let's say that the sports prophecy is the most classic toto. One of the biggest toto organizers is Triobet and OlyBet, for example. But surprise-surprisingly, on this list there was also a prophecy about who would become President of the Republic. This, too, actually qualifies as a total, and that's what was on that list at one point. But it's basically a sports prophecy. What is the issue and the content of this amendment? In the Republic of Estonia, lotteries, à la Keno Lotto or Viking Lotto can only be organised by a company belonging to the Estonian State, whose shares are 100% of those of the Estonian State. In Estonia, the right to organize lotteries is currently limited to Estonian Loto, with the exception of lotteries with a winning fund of less than 1000 euros. These lotteries are not regulated by the Gambling Act at all. What has been done? Fortunately, it is not yet rooted in Estonia, but, for example, in Germany and France, the same companies that organise totos offer the opportunity to predict lottery numbers that win at one or the other draw. Obviously, it seems that what is there, but there is a very important difference between taxation and taxation. If the lottery operator has to pay taxes on 18% of the revenue from the lottery tickets sold, those who organise totos, à la Triobet or OlyBet will pay 5%, but according to the formula that the amount of winnings paid out is deducted, i.e. in English, gross gambling revenue, and will be paid 5%. This is an extremely large tax gap. Here there is a significant loss of the state's tax revenues, in the sense that there is a large difference between the tax revenue and 18% of the price of the lottery tickets sold or the wagering of the winnings paid off and the taking of 5% of it. In addition to those who offer these lottery results under the toto tag and allow people to predict, there are no costs: they do not have to set up costs and they do not have to issue lottery tickets. This creates unfair competition. It is not yet a problem in Estonia, but, as I suggested earlier, there have been such cases in Germany, France and Sweden, for example. I don't know if there are any differences in taxation. If they're not that big, then maybe that's why it's not that big of a problem. But in any case, there is a very large difference in taxation in Estonia, so it would be reasonable and appropriate to make this change now. So we discussed this at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Minister of Finance could not present the official position of the Ministry of Finance, but the Minister personally felt that this was a completely meaningful proposal and could also be found with the support of the Ministry. The second amendment concerns one particular company, AS Tallink Grupp. In fact, as I pointed out earlier, the Gambling Act was at first and is still within the provision that lotteries with a winning fund of less than EUR 1000 are not subject to the requirements of the Gambling Act. These are, figuratively speaking, fair lotteries, or lotteries, held on board ships and so on. However, it was taken advantage of by a number of gambling operators who organized these lotteries with a winning fund of up to EUR 1000 several times a day. Consequently, the previous Parliament amended the Gambling Act that the requirements of the Gambling Act do not only apply to lotteries with a winning fund of less than EUR 1000 and which are not organised more frequently than once in a week. This is a valid version of the Act which entered into force on 1 January 2016. It solved this problem on earth, but apparently the legislator forgot that Tallink's ships are flying every day and even one day several times. This amendment was put under attack, I would call it that, on these ships, the raffles that, I believe, most people have noticed. That doesn't mean they should have been involved, but they've been spotted. I'd say it's more of an entertaining pastime that's gonna get rid of the ride a little bit faster. However, according to the legislative amendment that applied from 1 January 2016, Tallink will not be able to organise these lots. Consequently, their proposal is just to read out what their wording is to allow lotteries with a winning fund of up to EUR 1000 to be carried out on ships operating international passenger transport flying the flag of Estonia. It is also very important that Tallink ships are currently banned, but it is not prohibited, for example, on Viking Line ships, even though these companies are essentially active on the same market. So that was the second amendment that we discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. This amendment was very thoroughly discussed by Taivo Põrk of the Ministry of Finance, who fully supported it, while the Minister asked for more time to think about it. Of course, when we come to this amendment, we will certainly ask for the position of the Government of the Republic as well. The Commission took the following decisions: firstly, to send the draft to the plenary agenda by 12 October, i.e. today (the decision was consensual), secondly, to propose the completion of the first reading (consensual decision), thirdly, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 5 p.m. on 26 October 2016 (the decision was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U161	Thank you. You have questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Although the presentation was thorough and there is a lot of information in the explanatory memorandum, I will still take the opportunity to ask. Manipulation of sports competitions is one of the greatest threats to sport and this bill must reduce these risks in the Estonian sports world. There is also a case here. If, for example, this is a serious problem in Estonia, can it be described in any way? Secondly, who's gonna do the monitoring that these cases are gonna come out anyway? Is it only those who have lost money, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U163	Thank you. I've even used the formula that wager fraud is the death of sport. Then there's no interest in watching sports competitions if there's any doubt that there's probably something agreed on. I think that sports competitions will then lose their charm, which is why it is really extremely important to combat these frauds. This bill, as the Minister said, is a preventive step. If the maximum penalty is currently EUR 80 and that is all, this amendment states that if betting qualifies as a scam, the lowest penalty is a fine or up to three years' imprisonment, but the penalty is even more severe in the case of more serious crimes. I think it has a very important preventive effect. How massive is this phenomenon? I have made this example of the fact that, as far as I am aware, conviction under the scam has been requested only once. It can therefore be assumed that we have not had any such wager fraud on a massive scale, since only one case has been brought to court and the court has also given a ruling. But that certainly doesn't mean that there have been so few of these cases, it's more like it's been misdemeanour. Who's in charge of surveillance? I think that this should be the area of interest most. If we are watching football, it is obvious that the Estonian Football Association is most interested in preventing such things from happening. Football really is an attractive area, and it also seems to be an exciting area for bookmakers. But by looking at the behaviour of Aivar Pohlak and the entire football union, we can see that they have been very resolute in such cases. They are willing to make decisions that are unpopular among outsiders, but they do so to prevent wager fraud from becoming a mass. I don't think Estonia's sport has much money in this game today, but in the Western world, the money will certainly move much more. Here too, the small size of our market is the basis for our success. Obviously, it is not possible to make such bets on some Estonian basketball league game that it would be attractive to a criminal group. Luckily, it's a bigger problem in the world, but don't we have little crooks? In order not to have them, sport is fair and we all have an exciting track record of sports competitions, the legislator also needs to adjust the laws that we are doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U164	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U165	Honorable manager! Respectable waitress! I am very pleased that you have already addressed this issue more broadly in the context of these next amendments. Excuse me for going a little further from here, maybe out of the bounds of a specific bill! Has the Committee on Economic Affairs also considered in its work programme that perhaps the Gambling Act should be further revised and revised? Many things in life have changed since the adoption of the original version of this law. You have a good will to eliminate the injustice between Estonian lottery and toto organizers, but perhaps it would also be worth critically reviewing the distribution of income and reviewing all this law further? In the Gambling Tax Council, where I belong, these thoughts have moved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U166	Thank you. I think you and your colleagues in the Council have more ideas today that should change this law. One of the places to think is, in my opinion, the same taxation that, in the case of lotteries, as I said, is a completely considerable issue. 18% is still a fully respected tax rate. But let's look at the sneakers. I hope I'm not mistaken, but I got a figure somewhere that's got a total return on gambling tops of EUR 5.6 million. I think it's more small than a lot of money. The subject of taxation is certainly a forum for discussion. Taxation may actually be an opportunity to restrict gambling a little, if the revenues that can be paid are lower and the taxes that have to be paid are higher again. In other words, it is important that there is more revenue in the state budget. I think it's a discussion place. But, of course, this is more of a matter for the Ministry of Finance, but we can provide input if we have wishes and ideas. I think that, in the case of a larger revision of this law, the leader is the Ministry of Finance, at least it should be. In any case, I am ready to make proposals. We must, of course, respond directly to the changes in the market situation that are taking place in this area. There are always pros and cons here. On the one hand, gambling certainly has its own negative accent; on the other hand, it brings considerable revenue to the state budget. After all, you can't forbid the fun of someone who has money over and who wants to put that money into gambling. If the country gets a dignified share of it, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U167	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U168	Good manager! Good waitress! The Minister of Justice has always said that a desk factory should, like, slow down, that there is no endless need for legislative corrections. Did you discuss that with this story? First of all, there is no intention to develop. Secondly, it is the result of a judgment. Thirdly, Estonia intends to ratify the Convention against the manipulation of sporting competitions, a convention of the Council of Europe. Fourthly, there are many judgments. Does everything have to change the law now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U169	Thank you. As I was referring to, I think that this decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court alone would not have been enough to come up with a legislative amendment. But in my opinion, the important sign was that the prosecutor's office, knowingly, wanted to challenge the decision of the district court and turned to the Supreme Court, but the Supreme Court did not accept this application. This tells us much more than just this decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court. In essence, it assesses that the Supreme Court also shares this view. We do not have a third institution to turn to. If there is a precedent, the likelihood that another court, administrative court or district court will decide otherwise is very low. One thing the judges are following is case law. Today, as a case law, this particular case is on the table, where the Tallinn Circuit Court has said that, despite the fact that the signs of a fraud exist, this composition cannot be applied because of this very speciality principle. I think it's based on that. The second thing is that I am also referring here to the question of Andres Ammas and to why I considered it important to inform you about these amendments, which concern this famous CC or the development plan. Indeed, this draft proposed by the government did not have it, and this is probably not the case for these two amendments, if they are approved by the Committee on Economic Affairs. I'm very pragmatic. I do not want to say that these changes are of little importance, but I think that we should use the resource of drawing up an intention to develop a much larger, much more complex and more important law, we should focus on them. Indeed, the bill comes as the Vändra sawboards. Perhaps there is no point in wasting this resource on individual changes. Of course, it is possible to do all this, but by this we will have less time for some of the other drafts that are more important, more extensive and which affect us more. Therefore, yes, I apologise for not having this development plan, but it is in the end also for the Riigikogu to assess whether it considers it justified to approve the draft without the intention of drafting it. If you find that these reasons are not sufficient, then of course a member of the Riigikogu has the right not to support this draft. But I do not think that both this draft initiated by the Government of the Republic and the two possible amendments that the Economic Commission is considering at its meeting are likely to be of such a scale that they would require a plan of development. Ideally, it could be there, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U170	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U171	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! The amendments which have been incorporated are fully relevant. But internationalism, which has become quite common in such betting, has very bad consequences. It is known, for example, that in the fourth German league, where student teams are playing, there was international interference in the course of the games. The amounts received were marginal, but at the same time this intervention was extensive and still profitable. So that's the perspective. Did the Commission also mention possible scenarios for the future that need to be addressed further, or are we expecting new precedents?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U172	Thank you. The Commission focused on the amendment tabled by the Government of the Republic. But once again, the first thing, which is certainly very important, is the same prevention. If today you wave the slogan that punishment is awfully harsh, you have to pay 80 euros, then this is a laughing stock. I think there is now a very clear message here that it is still criminally punishable under the scam. The preventive effect is when the law is tougher, obviously there, and today, by approving this amendment, we are creating it. So this message is crucial. Secondly, as I suggested, it is of the utmost importance that it is in the interests of the subgroups themselves. If, however, it is known that there are massive wager frauds in one sport or another, it is clear from the day that the audience will disappear and the sponsors will disappear because they are not interested in supporting an area where betting is involved. The main interest in this should still be the underground movement and, of course, the Estonian Olympic Committee. It's actually their bread. If there's gonna be wager fraud, figuratively speaking, the bread will be taken away from them. Of course, emotion and interest and the need to follow this competition are also taken from the audience. So I repeat, I believe wager fraud is the death of sport. We all need to act against them together, and today the Riigikogu can contribute by tightening up the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U173	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U174	Thank you. Good colleague! I'll take your last sentence. Do you really think that if we accept this amendment, these sports scams or other betting will disappear in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U175	Thank you. No, I certainly do not think that they will disappear, but I believe that the tightening of this law will reduce the number of people who are tempted to commit wager fraud. It has a preventive purpose. Certainly, wager fraud never really disappears, but in one way or another, there is still something left, but, of course, the question is limited. I dare say that this number has not crossed the critical line in Estonia. I can't rely on specific facts. But I will say once again that in the case of the EUR 80 penalty, everyone is willing to take the risk, it is not money for which to give up the risk. It's nothing but the money that this punishment provides for. But if the possible punishment is still three years of imprisonment, I think half the cons are gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U176	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 260. I will set the deadline for the submission of 260 amendments, including 26 October at 5 p.m. We are done dealing with the fourth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U177	Today's last, fifth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm asking for a presentation from the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll give you an overview of the bill bearing number 259. This is a draft law amending the Accounting Act. This draft reduces the requirements for original documents and encourages sustainable paperless accounting for time and work. First, a few words from the originals. Currently, the original documents must contain eight mandatory elements. The amendment reduces the number of mandatory elements to 3 times, a description of the economic content and the figures, and establishes a general requirement that the content of the original document must be sufficient to assess whether the economic transaction is genuine and true. The original accounting documents are also generally machine-working according to the draft. This means that accounting software must be able to understand and use them without human intervention. Directive 2014/55 on e-invoicing in public procurement requires Member States to ensure that contracting authorities are able to accept machine-operated invoices, i.e. e-invoices. With the draft, Estonia will take a step further and impose an obligation to use e-invoices in the settlement of the entire public sector. A waiver of PDF and paper invoices will lead to cost savings of EUR 2.5 million per year for the State. Until the publication of the European standard, expected in 2017, e-invoicing will be based on a local standard developed by stakeholders - banking associations, operators and others - good practice, but once the draft law enters into force, it will be introduced by the Finance Minister's Regulation. Although the draft does not impose an obligation to use e-invoices in business-to-business settlements, we believe that the approval of the state example and the e-invoice standard will also give the private sector a boost here, and the use of e-invoices will be boosted. Larger companies are still not familiar with the use of e-invoices; companies with more than 100 employees send nearly a third of all invoices as e-invoices. In order to facilitate the involvement of smaller companies with the change, the state has created a so-called e-invoice provider, i.e. online accounting software, the first year of use of which is free of charge and which will allow free e-invoicing to be sent to the public sector until the end of 2018. Later use, after 2018, depends on the number of entries in the accounts, ranging from EUR 9 per month to possibly EUR 5 per year. Through the e-invoice provider, free e-invoices can also be sent to the public sector until the end of 2018 by companies wishing to remain with current accounting software. About 2 million invoices are submitted to the public sector annually, with 40% of performers doing so only once and 80% to 10 times a year. The cost of drawing up and sending a single invoice to an undertaking is EUR 0,25 to 0,55, depending on whether and which economic software and operator the operator is using. Due to the competition of operators (Estonian Post, Telema, Fitek) and the increase in the volume of services, further reductions in the price of the service are also foreseen. When submitting the draft, the government planned two separate deadlines for entry into force. The e-invoices were to be accepted by the entire public sector by 1 November 2016 and the obligation to submit only e-invoices to the public sector was to enter into force on 1 January 2017. As the draft came to first reading only today, these deadlines will probably have to be extended by a month to two months during subsequent readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U179	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. Urve Palo, member of the Economic Commission, should now act as co-rapporteur. I don't see Urve Palo in the hall. The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U180	We can continue. I ask Urve Palo, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U181	Good afternoon. Dear President, thank you for your hospitality. Ladies and gentlemen, For six years, I've been working here in the Riigikogu. For once, it is still the first time that colleagues have to wait for me. I'm sorry about that! I was so obsessed with my work in my office that I didn't notice the time. Now, I'm talking about the draft law amending the Accounting Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 259. A debate was held at the Commission on 11 October before the first reading. We had been invited to the debate by Minister Sven Sester, the head of the project to merge the support services of the Ministry of Finance, Marge Lepp, and the lawyer of the Enterprise and Accounting Policy Department, Taivo Põrk. Both the Minister of Finance and other guests gave an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and answered the questions. The Minister explained that as a technical change, the draft specifies the requirements for completing the document with a view to making it easier for economic operators. In my opinion, there is quite a lot of positive for our entrepreneurs, but also for other people who have to pay their bills, because there are no longer so many claims for invoices. A more substantive and substantial change is related to machine reading. The draft provides for the obligation to issue electronic invoices when settling with the public sector. Thus, it is no longer a PDF file sent by e-mail, but a machine-manufactured e-invoice. The amendment will give the country significant savings of €2.5 million (of course an estimated amount), reduce the workload of accountants, speed up billing, pay them, etc. Modern software is able to generate the document that the other party needs and send it through the operator to the organisation representing the country, while the recipient's computer is able to read it and adopt it in its accounting software. It is also good that the state offers those who do not have the necessary software for communicating with the state the opportunity to create this machine-processing document themselves in a certain environment. We had a small debate in the Commission and the questions were answered. We made a consensual decision to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 12 October, and we proposed that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 26 October (this decision was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U182	Thank you. You have a question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U183	Good manager! Good waitress! That's the kind of thing I'm asking. There is an idea that the outgoing president and his office are highly innovative, but I find here his suggestion that innovation and entrepreneurship should not really be opposed. The Registry does not consider it right that a public authority is forced to choose as partners only those companies that are prepared to submit e-invoicing. I do not know whether the Ärma farm and the Kadriorg administration meant carrots, milk and gifts made by small businesses. This proposal has not been taken into account. Did you discuss why the President's office, an innovative institution, as I imagine, came up with such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U184	We did not discuss why the President's office put forward its proposal in this wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-12_U185	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 259. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 259 amendments, including 26 October at 17:00. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is over and today's session is over. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 15.46 p.m.
