ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 2nd working week on Thursday. I would like to ask those of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries! Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U2	Honourable President! Honourable ambassadors! Yesterday, we discussed fines and fine policies in this Chamber. On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to pass on a draft law supplementing the state budget law to continue this debate. The point of this is, in short, to devote all the money from fines to the stabilisation reserve. The philosophy of the draft is that penal policy is one thing and fiscal policy another. Unfortunately, they have been linked in Estonia. In a particularly cynical and visible way, this connection came to light this spring, when the current government coalition did not hide that it sees more money coming from fines as one possible source of cover for the budget deficit. It shouldn't be like that. No one in Estonia wants us to be in a situation where the police are under pressure to collect a sum of both or so large by means of fines. That is what this bill is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U3	Please to the Riigikogu speech chair in Uno Kaskpeiti!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U4	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the EKRE Group, I have an inquiry to address to the Minister for the Interior. This concerns the educational requirements of a police officer and a senior officer of the Police and Border Guard Board. There's something surprising. On 14 December 2009, a decree of the Minister of the Interior was issued on the professional suitability requirements of the Police Officer and the Senior Officer of the Police and Border Guard Board, including the educational requirements and the conditions and procedures for their verification, in which § 3 (2) said: 'The Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, Director General of the Defence Police Department, Deputy Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police Department must hold a master's degree or equivalent qualification. ' Paragraph 8 (2) of the Regulation provides that Paragraph 3 (2) of the Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 2014. Here began an interesting systematic list of ministerial regulations. In 2013, a new Regulation was introduced to extend the compliance period again. The most amazing is that s. a From 1 January there is another regulation, the fourth one, which extended that period again. That is why we have some questions for the Minister. How is it possible for the Minister of the Interior to change the conditions of employment in the Police and Border Guard Board based on individuals? It's amazing. Here are a few more questions to which we are waiting for answers. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U5	Good fellows! There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Please, let's do the presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and no 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U6	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Product Compliance Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Good fellows! Let me say that before we go to the processing of this point, I will briefly introduce the procedure, which naturally results from the §es 149.152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, which is well known to all of us. First of all, Chancellor of Justice is the presentation by Ülle Madise, which lasts up to 20 minutes, after which there will be a presentation by Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which will also last up to 20 minutes, and then by Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which will also last up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. All members of the Riigikogu may take the floor during the negotiations. After the negotiations have been concluded, the President shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. Ülle Madise, Chancellor of Justice of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representative of the people! This time I am standing before you with a request to bring the Product Compliance Act, Chapter 4, which regulates the accreditation of economic operators, into line with the Constitution. In particular, I consider that this is contrary to § 113 of the Constitution, which states that all public charges must be imposed by law, which implies that the law should determine the criteria on the basis of which it is possible to conclude that those charges are fair and can be imposed on a person. I will talk more about the proposal and, as always, I would rather be brief. I'd love to answer questions later. If someone wishes to introduce an electrical installation, heating system, elevator or other more sophisticated equipment, it is legally required to have its technical condition checked before the appliance is put into service and quite reasonably required. Such checks can only be carried out by an economic operator whose competence has in turn been established, i.e. who has been accredited. The accreditation shall be subject to a fee. Here's the catch. This fee shall be established by the Estonian Accreditation Centre of the Foundation without any power of attorney arising from the Act of the Supervisory Board. Unfortunately, a different understanding of this issue cannot be very well, as the practice of the Supreme Court is uniform in the interpretation of § 113 of the Constitution. In this way, I would ask the Riigikogu to consider the possibility of giving such a power of attorney in the Product Compliance Act. In some countries, this mandate has been given to a minister or government. In principle, it is probably possible to give such a mandate to the same council of the Estonian Accreditation Centre. In the practice of the Estonian Supreme Court, such an opportunity is not thoroughly analysed, but it is certainly a viable option for the Riigikogu. I thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs for a thorough debate. That concludes my introductory speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm taking a one-minute break from the manager.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise to you and my fellow officers. Let's move on to the questions. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U10	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Has this problem arisen in connection with any particular case in the Estonian judicial system? Has anyone's rights been violated or has it simply been brought to your attention during routine work that it is necessary to bring this law into line with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U11	Yeah, it's a specific case. The Chancellor of Justice was approached by a small entrepreneur who considers accreditation fees to be too high. Whether these fees are high, appropriate or low cannot and cannot be assessed by the Chancellor of Justice. However, when this statement was resolved, it became clear that there really was no legal basis for imposing these charges. So the entrepreneur had to answer that I would come to the Riigikogu with this proposal. The undertakings to which it may be affected shall be 50 to 100.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U12	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. There are no more questions. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honorable Chancellor of Justice! The Constitutional Commission discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice on Monday 11 January 2016. Then the Chancellor of Justice gave the same introduction as he did to us in this great hall. He explained what this proposal was about. The most important question is that it has been argued that there is a private relationship, but the Chancellor of Justice considers that this is not the case if the accreditation centre determines these fees. It is clear from the European Union's regulation that this is a matter of public authority. Pursuant to § 113 of the Estonian Constitution, the fees charged in the exercise of public authority are established in the Act. This means that the law should provide that the accreditation centre has the right to impose these charges. They must be established on the basis, for example, of a cost-orientation or other principle which the Riigikogu may consider appropriate. The Chancellor of Justice added that although the accreditation centre has been consistently profitable, there is no reason to claim that it has abused the right to levy charges. At the same time, on the basis of the theory of administrative law and the Constitution, those undertakings who have turned to the Chancellor of Justice are entitled to receive public service remuneration without a legal basis. As a result, the Chancellor of Justice asks the Riigikogu to consider laying down a mandate rule for establishing fees in the Product Compliance Act. To this end, it is possible to authorise the appropriate minister or to grant a certain limit to the accreditation centre. The Members of the Commission heard the Chancellor of Justice's explanations and asked him questions. It was asked, inter alia, whether the problem had not actually arisen from the fact that, in the opinion of economic operators, fees were too high or that the requirement for accreditation of certain products was considered unjustified. The Chancellor of Justice's advisor replied that the procedure started when the Chancellor of Justice was approached by a small accreditation company that seemed to be overly high and opaque. The price list of the Estonian Accreditation Centre is inconclusive and it is very difficult to understand which category the person belongs to and why the fee is taken from him. The Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice sees a particular problem in the fact that fees are not transparent. The question was raised: if the Riigikogu supports the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, whether people who find themselves paying an excessive fee will have the opportunity to recover a certain amount of the fees paid. The Chancellor of Justice replied that there would be no such right and explained that if persons had gone to court for fees and initiated constitutional review, these individual persons could have acquired that right. However, if Parliament decides to create a power rule in the law for the introduction of fees and to set criteria that make charging more transparent, this will in future solve the problem of all companies involved in accreditation in a uniform manner. That is the difference between the approach of the Chancellor of Justice and that of the Court. There is a need to amend the law to solve the problem. The committee asked whether the decision of the Riigikogu to amend the Product Compliance Act would continue to apply to other similar laws, and if it were known that there would be such a problem in other laws. The Chancellor of Justice replied that if he were aware of such problems, he would have added them to this proposal. If the Riigikogu supports the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice and this causes the law to be amended, it will not automatically lead to the amendment of other laws. One Member of the Commission noted that the debate had given the impression that a legislative amendment would guarantee a reduction in the applicant's fees and asked whether this was certain. The Chancellor of Justice replied that this might not be the case. He agreed that, in terms of constitution and administrative law, it was a public financial obligation which was collected by a private person without a mandate from the legislator and considered that this should not be the case in the light of the Constitution. It is possible that the fees are fair and justified, but they cannot be compared with anything at the moment. The Commission raised the question of why an accreditation task had been entrusted to a private body, although it could be carried out by a public authority. The Chancellor of Justice replied that this was envisaged in the wave of foundation creation. Formally, the number of public authorities and public officials should therefore decrease, but this is not the case in substance, as this activity is transferred to the foundation and the foundation's affairs are decided by the board, where the state also has a representation. Advisor to the Chancellor of Justice added that the Estonian Accreditation Centre has established the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, so the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications has transferred this task to the foundation he established. The requirement for accreditation to be carried out by only one body stems from Regulation No 765/2008 of the European Union, which aims to harmonise accreditation in the European Union. The regulation does not prescribe whether it must be a public authority or a private body, it is a choice of State. In addition, it was asked whether the costs of accreditation were so high that the State could not be accredited with its own money. The Chancellor of Justice's advisor replied that the European Union Regulation requires the Foundation to work on the principle of self-refundability. This means that accreditation activities must be paid by the firms to be accredited. While the Regulation provides that the State must finance the performance of other tasks of a competent accreditation centre, such as the participation of an accreditation body in pan-European cooperation and investment, accreditation activities must be self-effective and non-profit-making. This means that the fee can be charged exactly as much as it actually takes for accreditation. It was also asked whether an administrative contract had been concluded between the Foundation and the Ministry. The Chancellor of Justice's advisor said no. He added that until 2010 accreditation was carried out on the basis of an administrative contract, but then the procedure was changed and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications transferred the accreditation task to SA Eesti Akrediteerimiskeskus. It asked what Parliament's right to impose rates formally on a private person. The Chancellor of Justice's advisor replied that this was a public task and that the foundation was an extension of the state's arm. His legal form doesn't matter. Before I go to the decisions, I say that the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu was also consulted. The content of the opinion was, in principle, in line with the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu finds in the same way that the Chancellor of Justice's proposal needs to be supported. What was decided? In consensus, it was decided to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Mr Kalle Laane, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur, which was also a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U14	Good waitress, thank you. You have at least one question. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did the Committee on Economic Affairs discuss whether this operation could lead to state fees being regulated? It is a public act, and in such cases, an appropriate instrument exists, and it is a state fee. Did the Economic Commission not discuss the option of introducing this regulation into the state tax law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U16	Honourable Aivar! I'm still chairing the Committee on Constitutional Affairs today, but I don't know, maybe I'll be in the Committee on Economic Affairs someday. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U17	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U18	Mr President, thank you very much. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice at its meeting on 11 January 2016. In addition to the members of the committee, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, Chancellor of Justice Olga Lavrova, Head of Communication of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice Janek Luts and Adviser Ago Pelisar to the Quality Infrastructure Department of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications took part in the sitting. The Chancellor of Justice also gave a very thorough explanation at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. There was no very long debate, as the arguments were well founded. I want to emphasise two or three more things so that there is no misconception. The charge for accreditation is in itself well-founded and permissible. This is because the European Union directive, which lays down the accreditation procedure, states that the accreditation centre must act in a non-profit-making way, but on the principle of self-effectiveness. So in any case, it is permissible to charge, if not to say, that it is meant to be. Secondly, I consider it important to note that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, by letter dated 25 June, took the view to the Chancellor of Justice that the Ministry did not consider it necessary to impose fees in law. This is because the EU regulation provides for the principle of self-effectiveness. They took the view that EU regulations were directly applicable. However, I have just mentioned that a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also attended the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. By 11 January, the Ministry had withdrawn and, in fact, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal was accepted. What happens next? The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is preparing a draft law amending the Product Compliance Act. They have already started preparing to address this problem. Indeed, the options are different. One possibility is that these fees are even introduced in a law that obviously cannot be regarded as viable, as the cost base often changes and the legislator too often needs to change the law. The second option is that these fees will be set on the basis of a mandate rule which the legislator will assign to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, together with the task of determining the principles for setting the fee. Thirdly, in order not to cause unnecessary resentment, I consider it important to note what the Chancellor of Justice has just referred to: it is possible that the Riigikogu will give this power of attorney to the same council of the Estonian Accreditation Centre of the Foundation. This is, of course, provided that it is not just a formal mandate rule, but that it is also necessary to define the principles and essential elements of charging, so that all of this is transparent. Finally, the principle of self-effectiveness is one of the important criteria for setting these rates. I dare say that the Estonian Accreditation Centre has not been significantly enriched. Indeed, they have had certain accumulated profits over the years, but it is not, in my opinion, so high that it would give rise to a claim that the charges charged would have been unduly high. It must be acknowledged, however, that the legislator has not provided a formal basis for asking them. The Committee on Economic Affairs took the following decisions: to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal (the decision was consensual) and to appoint Toomas Kivimägi (the decision was also consensual) as its rapporteur at the hearing of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U19	Good waitress, one question for you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I ask the same question as I asked the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is a public-law operation and in such cases the appropriate instrument for charging is available: a state fee. Why should charging for an accreditation procedure not lead to state fees being regulated in the State Tax Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U21	Thank you! I recognise that such a proposal was not made at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, so there was no debate about it. But I think your comment is appropriate in that sense that it is one of the possible subjects of discussion for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. We'll have to look at the analogy here. Not all such charges are likely to take the form of state fees. How practical would it be to do so now? I think it's more of a matter of rationality. Whether this fee is imposed by the state fee, whether it is done by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or even by the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Accreditation Centre, on the basis of the mandate rule, is probably not significantly dependent on the amount of the fee. But this is definitely one way. I believe that the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will certainly be monitoring this Riigikogu session and that this possibility can be considered as one option.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U22	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Dear colleagues, I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed and 1 abstention. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, pursuant to § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I hereby instruct the Economic Commission to initiate a draft to bring the Product Compliance Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U23	Let's move on to the second item. This is the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to bring Article 17 (4) of the Water Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Allow me to brief you on the procedure before you go to the procedure. First, there is the report by the Chancellor of Justice, which lasts up to 20 minutes, and then there is the presentation by Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which also lasts up to 20 minutes, and then by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, which also lasts up to 20 minutes. After that, a member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. A round of negotiations follows, where all members of the Riigikogu can speak. Following the end of the debate, the President shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. I ask for a presentation by Chancellor of Justice of the Riigikogu Chair Ülle Madise!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The problem with the Water Act is that there are a lot of opposing interests here. This is also what the debate in the Committee on the Environment referred to by the presence of representatives of many interest groups. The point is, in short, that Article 17 (4) of the Water Act leaves the Environmental Board with no discretion. If the river, which is included in the list of salmon, trout and accustomed habitats, is swollen, then access to fish, regardless of what it brings to its atmosphere, must be built from this barrier, both upstream and downstream, and regardless of the fact that the water mill operating on the river may have a very significant cultural value, but its use would make it impossible to establish fish passes. Fish passes must be built even though there were fish in the river before the barrier was established, whether they would use them in the first place and what the cost of building and maintaining them would be. In short, the problem is that this section does not allow the Environmental Board to consider whether or not to require the construction of fish access. This disproportionately limits the rights of the holders of the barrier. The procedure started with the address of the owner of the Hellenurme water mill. Anyone who hasn't been to that mill, I suggest they go away. Indeed, this is a unique historical mill, where flour is now ground in a traditional way. The National Heritage Board is of the opinion that the construction of fish passes is ruining this mill. In addition, the owner is in a situation where he is not able to act objectively in a lawful manner because, in fulfilling the requirements of the National Heritage Board, he is in breach of the Environmental Board's requirements, but in compliance with the Environmental Board's requirements, he is in breach of the requirements of the National Heritage Board. With this stress, the owner of this mill has lived for a long time. If you look at the practice of the Supreme Court and the principles of the rule of law, there is a sensible and possible solution, which is also provided by European Union law. This is because, in general, when fish passes have to be built in such cases so that fish can move, the law can and may provide for an exception. If there are overriding other interests, these are heritage protection interests, very high costs or issues relating to the social and economic interests of the region, then it would be possible, by way of exception, to allow this passage not to be established. I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on the Environment for discussing this issue in depth. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U25	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. There are questions for you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! This is an extremely interesting case and there is also a clear contradiction. Thank you for bringing this to us! But the barrage of ownership in relation to nature conservation restrictions is probably an even wider issue. A few days ago, in the form of an inquiry by the Minister of the Environment, we discussed the issue of the fact that we have a large number of natural resources in private ownership, but the state's ability to compensate for these lands for its owners is very limited. Have such questions reached the Chancellor of Justice's desk?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U27	Thank you for this question. Yes, these appeals are very numerous, because indeed, many areas have been protected and there has been an extremely strict protection regime, which basically makes it impossible to use these forests and lands, as well as to use them in a sensible and environmentally sound way. The possibility provided by law to obtain compensation from the State for the purchase of another plot of land where there are no restrictions is not put into practice due to a lack of money. When a state takes some areas into protection, it is very often not, in essence, necessary to consider that it involves a real budgetary burden. Indeed, in many cases, however, a reasonable balance can be found between nature conservation interests and the interests of landowners. Perhaps this will cause certain problems for officials, perhaps more control, more thought, maybe risk some parties going to court, but it is possible that a reasonable balance can be found here from the point of view of Estonia's development. So the answer to Andres Herkel's question is that yes, we have a number of appeals currently pending and one major proposal to the Riigikogu is being prepared. I believe it will come before you in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U28	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U29	Thank you. My question, too, has been borne out in the same way. We give discretion, but if the environmentalists stick to their opinions and the heritageists stick to their opinions, then in the end, a prudent decision does not give the end result. The same conflicts arise because of national defence interests, environmental interests and other interests. So who's going to trial, the same unfortunate owner who's not really guilty of anything? Would it not be possible to come up with some kind of scheme for the two conflicting guardians of state interests to find a solution? Maybe a third party could come up there. Otherwise, we'll be dealing with dead ends like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U30	Thank you. It is currently the case that, in 2008, when this Water Law rule was processed, it was possible to include in the law at second reading without any impact analysis a rule that does not allow any consideration, no exception, so that it is absolutely no matter what it brings to the surrounding environment or to the owner of the barrier. The change came clearly at the initiative of the defenders of rivers and fish. Neither the explanatory memorandum nor any other document has any explanation as to why this happened. The result now is that no matter what the arguments or considerations are, the conservation interest in fish wins in any case. There is therefore nothing to go to court, because the court must apply the same law in our opinion, which is disproportionate and therefore an illegal law, or not implement it and refer it to the Supreme Court. As Mr Laane has explained very nicely, the consequences for the mill owner may be positive, but for others who have fulfilled these obligations, they may not be positive at all. If the discretion is granted, the owner of the mill must indeed go to court. But if there is a place of consideration, then the court will be able to decide how to proceed. In particular, in the case of the Hellenurme water mill, which is a mill over a hundred years old, I believe that the representative of the Committee on the Environment also says here that, in order not to have this proportionality standard, it is still ready to come to that mill, for example, so that the river is removed from the list of salmon rivers. I noted that if there are still salmon in the river, it is a river of salmon, if they are not there, then it is not a river of salmon. It is not possible to solve this problem by using such sideways. However, it is a national law that interests can be considered. European Union law also allows this. Finally, the decision must be clear, fair and enforceable. If the Riigikogu decides to add this rule to it, I very much hope that it will do so, then the court will have the right to make this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U31	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U32	Thank you. I, too, will continue with the issue raised by the previous questioners. This case of the Hellenurme mill has been quite publicised in the press, and it has indeed raised the orbit of this issue. I think that there are many more cases of this kind and they are not only expressed as a contradiction between the Nature Conservation Act and the Heritage Protection Act in particular, but also as a contradiction between other laws when it comes to the question of which law takes precedence if, when comparing them, it turns out that both require different things. In the previous and previous composition, the Riigikogu Association of Heritage Protection also encountered these problems. But shouldn't there be some more general rule of discretion within these laws, so that the court is not overburdened and your desk is not overburdened with these conversions? If both laws require different things, who will ultimately decide which of them prevails?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U33	Such decisions are in the hands of the Riigikogu. However, based on the provision and thought of the Constitution of Estonia, and in the light of the previous practice of the Supreme Court, it is generally advisable to foresee in all laws the possibility of considering, because there are different things in life. I will explain with the example discussed. Yes, in 99.9% of the cases, fish passes are justified. But just because the law gives you a chance to weigh doesn't mean that there should be the opposite now and in 99% of cases this passage will not be built. No, let these 1% or 0.1% cases get a fair solution. Such is the point of the Supreme Court's practice and constitution, that whenever very exceptional circumstances arise, exceptions to the general rule can also be made. So, yes, it would be highly recommended legislative practice, but how exactly to implement it and on which issues, it is clearly up to the Riigikogu to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U34	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U35	Good manager and Chancellor of Justice! This is Hellenurme's bill, as I understand it, because there are only 16. This Article 17 (4) of the Water Act is one of the tens of thousands of law-makers. Have you analyzed how many paragraphs contain these discretionary rules at all? These contradictions are not only between heritage conservation and nature conservation, but also between national defence and whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U36	We are still looking at the laws, as well as the draft laws, if that is possible in time, with the view that there will not be a rule without the possibility of an exception and therefore capable of causing an unconstitutional situation. As soon as we find one of these, we'll bring it to you. Fortunately, the situation is no longer as tragic as it was perhaps 15 years ago or even earlier, when there were more of these undisputed norms and many of them were also declared invalid in the Supreme Court. I think that the situation will improve and if the honourable Riigikogu always pays attention to these issues in the future, it is likely that this situation will be resolved once and for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U37	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, to the Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Chancellor of Justice! The Constitutional Commission discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice on 11 January 2016. I must say in advance that the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was peaceful, without any special emotions, and we considered all the arguments. The Chancellor of Justice introduced the problem that arose, which is that § 17 (4) of the Water Act leaves the Environmental Board no room for consideration. Therefore, in addition to the protection of fish, the standard leaves no room for consideration of other compelling interests which could justify granting an exemption to the mill, so that access to that barrier should not be established. According to the Chancellor of Justice, a sensible and constitutional solution would exist if the Environmental Board were granted a right of consideration. Environmentalists have argued that if the Environmental Board has a right of consideration, the result is that the owners of all the swells will be able to escape environmental protection requirements. The Chancellor of Justice considers that this is not the case. The practice of the Supreme Court also confirms that fair and reasonable solutions require discretion and making a few exceptions does not mean that this right applies to everyone. The European Union's Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EC also allows discretion to be given and allows, inter alia, arguments for the protection of cultural goods to be taken into account. The members of the Commission heard the Chancellor of Justice's explanations and asked him for further questions. Among other things, it was requested to know how many specific thresholds this problem exists. The representative of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice replied that according to the National Heritage Board's assessment, there are 16 barriers in Estonia, which are protected by heritage, and in which case the question could arise, but the Chancellor of Justice has not analysed the possibility of establishing access to fish for them. It was asked whether there should be some margin of discretion for all laws. The Chancellor of Justice's advisor explained that the case concerned only water law and the law on heritage conservation. If according to the Heritage Protection Act, the Heritage Protection Board has been given some discretion, then the Water Act does not give it to the Environmental Board. The Chancellor of Justice stated that this is a wider problem and perhaps, in certain cases, a rigid, non-exceptional rule is justified, but these drivers are probably few. The Supreme Court has declared dozens of such regulations unconstitutional. The Chancellor of Justice added that they had a broader approach to environmental issues. One Member of the Commission pointed out that he supported the amendment of such laws, but that he did not see a contradiction with the Constitution in this case. So what did the Commission decide? The Commission decided to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal (consensually) and to appoint Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U39	President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, thank you. There are no questions. I ask for a presentation by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U40	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Chancellor! The Committee on the Environment, like the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Water Act into line with the Constitution. This was done by the Committee on the Environment at its meeting on 11 and 18 January. The first discussion was attended by the Chancellor of Justice, his advisor, the Minister of the Environment and representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Heritage, Hellenurme Veski OÜ, the Estonian Veskivaramu and Restu water mill. The second discussion was attended by the Deputy Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice, the Minister of the Environment and other representatives of the Ministry of the Environment. As the Chancellor of Justice has already presented his proposal, I will immediately go to what was discussed in the Commission and what was the position of the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister for the Environment. The Minister for the Environment, Marko Pomerants, explained in the Commission that although it may seem at first glance that the law needs to be amended, there is, in fact, no need for it. The Minister noted that 86 fish passes were established in Estonia, 72 of them on salmon rivers and 13 on the barrier under heritage protection. Only four are left where the interests of heritage conservation and nature conservation have gone into conflict. For these four dams, the access of fish is unsolved, but there are technical possibilities for doing so. He felt that the conflict could be resolved without changing the law, but it would require the will of all parties. If that is not the will, the amendment of the law will not help. In addition, the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment explained at the meeting that the National Heritage Board is willing to consider a pass-by solution, but a preliminary project or a feasibility study must be prepared in advance. It is possible to ask KIK for 100% funding, i.e. state funding, to carry out both the project and the survey and to ensure the passage of later fish. The representatives of Hellenurme Veski OÜ, Restu vesiveski and NGO Eesti Veskivaramu, who attended the meeting on 11 January, found that the amendment of the Water Act was necessary to ensure the preservation of cultural value. The members of the Commission also had a number of questions and thematic orientations. I will briefly mention some of the most important things. For example, the members of the Commission wondered whether this was a case-by-case case or whether the problem was wider. They wanted to know how many ups were in dispute. The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment explained that heritage protection versus nature conservation conflict has four boils and five thresholds are those that are not protected by heritage. It was noted that a compromise could be found on these thresholds without amending the law. The law should be amended in the most recent order. The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment also put it to our heart that we cannot forget the Natura objectives that must also be met in Estonia. The Chancellor of Justice explained that his view of the Constitution is that, if a norm causes unfair and unconstitutional suffering, even one person and it is not possible to protect the rights of that person without changing the norm, that norm must be changed. In addition, the members of the Commission wondered whether European Union law precluded discretion in the case of salmon rivers and whether EU directives would not be violated. The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment replied that they would not be violated, but, in their opinion, they considered that the problems in the current situation could also be solved by the law in force. The Commission raised the question of whether the granting of discretion would change anything if both agencies were to cooperate well against the perspectives in their field. The Chancellor of Justice's representative explained that, unfortunately, even in difficult situations, a choice must be made and there are always nuances that ultimately tilt the scales to one side or the other. Today we say that, in any case, the priority is to protect the environment. At its meeting on 18 January 2016, the debate continued and the Commission voted on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. There were 6 members of the Committee on the Environment in favour of the proposal, no one opposed and two abstentions. In addition, the Commission made a consensual proposal to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U41	Thank you. There's a question for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The Chancellor of Justice noted that, at the second reading of the Water Act, rigidity appeared in it. Did the Commission discuss how it appeared and on whose initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U43	Thank you. This was not discussed separately in the Commission. But when we look at these two meetings of the Commission, 11 and 18 January, it is clear that the Ministry of the Environment still considers the current Water Act to be reasonable. That's why I believe the idea came from their house.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U44	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair, Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U45	Mr President! Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Honourable Riigikogu! The lakes on our rivers, along with the buildings that belong to them, are of very diverse values: water itself is an inexhaustible natural resource, water life, including fish, the diverse ecological, recreative and heritage conservation values of the landscape, and much more. If there is a significant change in this community, the proposed approach needs to be thoroughly assessed and possible solutions considered. One example of this model is Linnamäe püükjärv with its hydroelectric power plant. The hydroelectric power plant of Linnamäe was completed in 1924 and was declared the most beautiful industrial building in Estonia as soon as it was completed. In 1941, the hydropower plant was detonated, but the swelling was preserved. In 2002, Eesti Energia restored the hydroelectric power plant. It cost only 2.2 million euros. A beautiful pendant bridge was built above the dam across the river with display platforms. Today, Linnamäe's hydropower plant is the largest in Estonia, with up to 7000 megawatt-hours of electricity per year, enough for 3000 families. Restored hydroelectric power plant, pükjärv and Jägala Jõesuu city hill are popular tourist attractions. In 2004, the Jägala sub-run was included in the Natura 2000 network and the next year, in 2005, the Jägala river storage area was established. It is noteworthy that both regulations of the Government of the Republic on the settlement of the Jägala natural area and the Jägala river storage area were issued when the Linnamäe power plant had been restored and there was also a lake. Thus, Lake Linnamäe is an original part of the landscape of the natural area as well as the conservation area. The NGO Eesti Loodushoolduskeskus started to plan the liquidation of Linnamäe väljajärv in 2013. The proposed solution was also clearly and unambiguously supported by the Ministry of the Environment. It is interesting to note that Eesti Energia ordered a barrier to the fish access project already in the process of restoring the plant and the Environmental Investment Centre made this financing decision. After this decision, three months later, the Environmental Board refused to coordinate the proposed project. Only one solution has to be eliminated. Mr President, more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U46	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U47	The Estonian Heritage Board has consistently stressed the need to maintain the barrier of Linnamäe and the lake as a whole. The hydroelectric power plant of the city hill is registered, by the way, as an object of heritage culture and is located in the heritage reserve of Rebala. This is Estonia's only heritage reserve, which also deals with landscape conservation. The eastern edge of the Paisu rural unit is located on the archaeological monument, centred on Jägala city hill. Based on the uniform functioning of heritage and landscape conservation, the heritage conservation experts have considered it necessary to maintain the Linnamäe kiwijärv. It has to be held. The bulwark lake of Linnamäe has acquired a significant social renomee in the poor lakes of Northern Estonia. Researcher Üllas Ehrlich of Tallinn University of Technology carried out a research study to determine the financial equivalent of the social value of Linnamäe Püükjärv. According to the author, Lake Linnamäe is an important social value and its financial equivalent as environmental goods is up to EUR 3.3 million per year. In order to solve the water-economic, biologic and social problems created by both the Linnamäe lake and similar objects, the Chancellor of Justice's position in the Water Act is very important. Finally, environmental protection and heritage protection must be united in Estonia, as was the case in 1993. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U48	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U49	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you again, Chancellor of Justice, for bringing this problem before us. Unlike the previous speaker, I do not want to talk about an individual case, even though speaking about the Hellenurme mill made me, as probably many of us, want to go there. In my opinion, this whole problem is about one of the much bigger problems that we should, frankly, notice every step of the way in this Chamber. This is because one hand in Estonia does not know what the other hand does. Unfortunately, all the rumors are true that our public authorities are like separate silo towers or (another term used) principality states. In the normal functioning of the country, we should not have such problems that the requirements of heritage protection and environmental protection go against them in such a way. This issue must certainly be resolved, and we will no doubt support it. There is another problem, however, that came out of how this rule had come into the law. This is because it is spoken of as a very positive and fully constructive approach, but obviously we have now seen an example of how one-sided and unconsidered inclusion can lead to harm instead of profit. We need to pay more attention to legislation so that this does not happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U50	Thank you. There's no more calls. I shall close the negotiations and begin the preparation of the vote. Dear colleagues, I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. There are 76 members of the Riigikogu, no one against and 6 abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, pursuant to § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I hereby instruct the Committee on the Environment to initiate a draft to bring Article 17 (4) of the Water Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U51	Let's move on to the third item. The first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party begins. I ask Jaanus Karilaidi, Member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U52	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, at the end of last year, the Central Party Group launched a draft decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic', which primarily provides for the elimination of four security gaps in Estonia. By its very nature, it consists of four points in the draft decision. The first point is ensuring the protection of the population. The second point envisages planning and making the necessary investments to improve the self-defence and defence capabilities of defence forces: firstly, to increase the self-defence capacity of manoeuvring and support companies and Defence League groups, to obtain shoulder-based ultra-short-range anti-aircraft missiles with a view to restricting, where necessary, the freedom of operation of hostile aircraft throughout Estonia; secondly, under the current contract, to obtain 40 additional Javelin anti-tank systems from the United States in order to strengthen the anti-tank capability of defence forces, the financing of which could be considered in part through the United States' FMF programme. The third point is to develop the concept of coastal surveillance and protection in Estonia and the development plan against possible military threats from the sea. The concept must support the country's peaceful commitment to maritime safety and environmental protection in territorial waters. On the fourth point, we have set out to make the government an obligation to plan and ensure the integration of the national fibre-optic broadband network EstWin for military operations management with the introduction of security requirements. This was the first presentation of our proposal. Now, however, I would like to make every point more detailed and detailed in order to justify the need for the draft and to explain the seriousness of the problems. The aim of the draft is to significantly improve the independent defence capabilities of the country. The state's defence capabilities include equally military deterrence and real defence capabilities, but equally the protection of its inhabitants from threats to their lives and health. The draft therefore covers the most important aspects of defence capabilities, which, as our analysis has shown, have not been given sufficient attention in the current National Defence Development Plan. More specifically, we propose the development of a systematic programme for the protection of the population, together with the training of the population and the necessary physical measures. Secondly, we believe that there is a need to substantially improve the country's anti-aircraft capability and, as I mentioned earlier, the coastal defence capability. The first proposal is to give a clear mandate and mandate to the Ministry of the Interior to draw up a comprehensive risk analysis and action plans, together with the defence forces, local authorities and all other organisations involved in the field. Realistic analysis and countermeasures must cover all possible threats to people due to extensive military, technical and natural hazard factors. The ultimate goal must first be that the people of Estonia know what to do in an emergency and where to go in order to survive and heal. Secondly, at national and local level, the ability to protect people from threats must be created. This means a system of protection for the population, which, in general terms, consists of four important components: information, codes of conduct, protection and evacuation and ensuring survival. The notification of the materialised hazard must be made at an appropriate rate and, ideally, should be accessible to all persons in the danger area. Instructions for emergency action must be known to everyone. This needs to be taught in schools, workplaces, as well as through the distribution of public teaching materials. A warning signal won't help if people don't know what to do. Having received an alarm signal, people must be able to find an elementary shield from danger. For most threats, it is normal to move inside immediately, close the windows and listen to further instructions via telecommunications. If necessary, the person must be able to hide below the ground. The basements of residential and public buildings must be adapted for this purpose. If the danger calls for people to leave the area, for example in the event of high air pollution, then in the city or settlement where people should move from their area of residence, there must be a reception centre with trained people. It must also be arranged for free transport to the place of destination. Ensuring survival means, for example, providing and saving the lives of people in the basement with the necessary resources to survive, as well as providing water, food, heat, medical care and other means of survival for people evacuated in another city. The public protection system does not work without preparation. Physical protection of its inhabitants is one of the primary tasks of the state and the meaning of the existence of the state, as the preamble to the Constitution shows. This does not only mean the functioning of the social and economic sectors, the response of the police and rescue services to events, and the development of military defence capabilities. This constitutional requirement is much wider and more universal and involves the prevention of all kinds of threats that may be encountered by the Estonian people. It is in this area that, in terms of prevention and physical protection of the population, we are at a time in the world of increasing threats. The fact is, people don't know what to do in a real emergency. Neither do the parish elders, councillors, councillors. We do not, in fact, even have a primitive system of communication with which to quickly warn people about the threat that threatens them. While it is planned to use all media channels and send messages to phones, it is not quick and immediate. A large part of the population do not constantly listen to radio or watch television, and SMS may not get attention either. There are thousands of people in the streets and offices during the day, and the only thing that can warn them is a public alarm system. This requires a certain number of stationary roupers in every city and settlement. In the event of multiple threats, which can occur on a daily or exceptional basis, saving the lives and health of the population is a matter of minutes, if not seconds. If, for example, a railway accident occurs in Tartu with a ammonia cistern, it is only a matter of minutes before many people die from a toxic gas cloud over the city. No telecommunications means can be used to warn people on the street in that time. Or we could take a situation where war begins, cities fall under bombing and missile attacks. Our radars can see what's coming, but how can we warn people that they can search for shelter quickly? In this situation too, it is a matter of minutes, sometimes in seconds. The fastest system is public cruisers. By the way, such a system of rupees is not afraid to use most of the old European countries. There are 1250, more than 8000 active rouporkaste in Norway, more than 500 in Belgium, more than 1000 in Denmark, almost 1500 in Finland. They shall be checked regularly. The fact is that such a system is the fastest way to communicate information. If there is a technical accident, if there is an air attack, a terrorist attack or a natural disaster at extremes, then the most important thing to save lives is to give everyone a warning. The follow-up to the warning must also be simple and known to all. Our northern neighbours, Finns, have instructed their people in this way: 'Hearing the civilian defence siren, move immediately to indoors. Close all windows, doors, ventilation vents and ventilation systems. Listen to the radio and follow the instructions. Avoid using the phone to avoid overloading the lines; they must be kept free for those in urgent need. In an emergency, move to the shelter immediately. ' The source of this information is the Helsinki Emergency Services website. Technical accidents aren't coming, and in every city there are these dangers. The Ministry of the Interior does not assess the threat of terrorist attacks in Estonia as likely, but they were not expected either in Paris or Istanbul. The problem with such attacks is that they are not predictable and, unfortunately, they are not predictable. Their losses can be reduced by raising people's awareness and alerting them quickly. When shooting starts somewhere, it's best to get ordinary citizens out of public places and off the streets. A lot has been said about shelters, but members of the government have taken a stand-off approach because it is too expensive and is not proportionate to the threat. We do not mean concrete bunkers poured into the ground here, but basic systems. The basement or underground parking lot under each apartment building is still a better shelter than nothing. Such solutions should be the focus for the time being. Although such places already exist physically, they need to be slightly improved to allow people to live there until the danger passes. Filtered ventilation, drinking water, toilets and communication lines are needed. These are basic requirements. Most of the utility networks are available in almost every basement; only additional facilities are needed. If the elementary requirements are met, a communication system shall be provided in case of emergency. The requirement to build shelters and corresponding cellars exists in Finland, with responsibility for its execution being largely entrusted to developers. The state spends resources only on the shielding systems of public institutions. However, it is unreasonablely expensive. We need to start with what we already have and see how to improve it. All of this requires a common approach and training, or a broad approach, which we write about in each policy document, but which we have not been able to apply sensibly so far. Residents need to know what to do. The municipality needs to know how to plan and take aid measures. It must be targeted nationally and in a harmonised way, it is not enough to expect that every local authority will have experts in the protection of the population immediately. The fact is, most of them do not know what needs to be done. It's not their fault either. We do not have a common discipline in this area. This is the system that we need to develop first. Our second proposal is to significantly improve the anti-aircraft capabilities of the Defence Forces by purchasing light, ultra-short-range anti-aircraft missile systems. Anti-aircraft means strategic capability, and in today's war, it is a successful one who controls the airspace. Anti-aircraft weapons are just as favorable as getting fighter squadrons. I can't publicize the bill, but right now our anti-aircraft system is just weak. To sum up well, we will only be able to protect the manoeuvring brigades if we have a good chance, but other forces, including the Defence League, will be completely defenceless in the event of air risk. It is the light-shoulder rocket systems that would be an important addition to the creation of both real self-defence and stronger deterrence. Such systems are designed to destroy low-flight aeroplanes and helicopters. The average firing distance, depending on the model, is between five and eight kilometres, with a shooting height of up to three kilometres. The biggest advantage to the heavier weapons systems carried on the machine is that they are extremely difficult to detect and destroy, and therefore it is impossible for hostile aircraft to predict where the risk of anti-aircraft is present. In armed conflict, such systems have shown themselves to be very effective. Under the Estonian circumstances, light and extremely short-range missile systems could be used mainly in the defence units of the Defence League, for whom no anti-aircraft cover is currently available. With enough weapons, it would be possible to create a realistic anti-aircraft cover covering the whole of Estonia, which in turn would be a strong deterrent if the aircraft were to break our border at any time. There has been talk of mid-land air control with a range of up to 75 kilometres, but one does not rule out the other. Just as there are different tools for different works, the very short-range rocket systems are a complement to mid-land air control and vice versa. The level of this price difference is questionable and depends in many respects on the place and the type of procurement to be carried out. For example, Lithuania is currently purchasing very short-range rocket systems from Poland for EUR 34 million and the need is justified by strengthening territorial protection. Latvia will also start negotiations with the US to purchase Stinger's missile systems this year. It is difficult to say exactly the price of these systems and it is also very volatile by producers, but they are several times more favourable than mid-land air control systems. The Polish Defence Forces have also announced that they will procure more than 180 missiles to complement 400 rocket launchers previously acquired by Grom. The price is EUR 9000 per missile, according to the article giving this information. Simple mathematics tells us that letting a transport helicopter Mi-26 cost less than 15 million with a rocket like this is more than 1600 times profitability. In concluding, it has to be said that ultra-short-range anti-aircraft also works when the fuel runs out and the fighters only have to move on foot. It doesn't need electricity or any special care conditions. It would make sense to get some systems for every unit of the company's circa 100 or 120 fighters. Together with sufficient supplies of missiles, their very existence in the event of war would make it very difficult for the enemy's flying formation to operate. Our third proposal is to obtain 40 anti-tank systems Javelin immediately and covered by the current contract. Both the development plan and the Ministry of Defence provide for an increase in the membership of the Defence League to 30,000 landguards in the coming years in order to ensure a security carpet covering the entire country. This is a really good and sensible plan. But this security carpet must be suitably armed so that it can carry out its mission. Only with handguns, short-distance anti-tank weapons and a higher-than-average defence will, unfortunately, not prevent the tank battalion. Those who still try to do so will suffer great loss of life. It was very reasonable to get 80 Javelins, one of the world's top systems for the destruction of tanks, but according to our data, they were primarily planned for the use of the First and Second Infantry Brigades. Several times the security carpet based on the Defence League doesn't get enough. At the same time, they are equally needed there so that the Defence League can carry out its main task. With the current contract, 40 more Javelin could be obtained. Our proposal is to buy them out immediately and put the Defence League into service. Why wait? Look what's going on in the world! At some point, they may not be so well-available at all. We have the opportunity now to use the FMF programme, which is still open. Our fourth proposal is to set up a coastal defence capability. Let me start by describing a recent event. On 27 July last year, a vessel of the Russian fleet entered our territorial waters in Tagalahe, Saaremaa. The ship was towed and reportedly storm sheltered. No official went to check the situation. How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U53	20 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U54	As I conclude, our draft has focused on four basic security gaps. If we take this decision, we will make a very important contribution to the real improvement of Estonia's security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U55	Thank you, good waitress. Good fellows! Let it be said that a member of the Riigikogu can ask both the rapporteur, Jaanus Karilaid, currently in the Riigikogu Chair, and Marianne Mikko, who is a member of the National Defence Committee, an oral question. Martin Kukk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U56	Thank you. Good waitress! I read in the explanatory memorandum to the draft decision of the Riigikogu that you mention the term 'anticipate'. Since this is a draft of the Central Party Group, it would be interesting to know who the Central Party Group considers to be against in this explanatory memorandum. What country does the Central Party Group consider to be an opponent?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U57	The bill is much more multi-layered. We have talked about the possibility of a number of crises, natural disasters, environmental threats, we have also talked about our security situation. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law also refers directly to the countries. It is certainly not about Latvia or Norway. Every sane person understands what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U58	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U59	Thank you. Good performer! The Commission's presentation will come naturally, but I am interested in how you looked at the debate in the committee. Couples don't know how expensive it is. Is there agreement and understanding that they are needed? What's the situation with the shelters now anyway? I remember, and many in this hall will probably remember that in the mid-1980s, a new and modern shelter was built, for example, for Kose. As we know, it doesn't even exist anymore. What was the attitude of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U60	In Parliament, the politicians of the EKRE and the Centre Party have repeatedly referred to this weakness. We are constantly talking about security threats, about the world's security situation changing, about the Russian Federation getting more aggressive, and we need to protect ourselves more. rhetoric, we saw this also before the parliamentary elections, has become very active, but this rhetoric has only been needed to catch the votes of the voters. In fact, in a real war situation, the people would be unprotected. The shelters are very poor, they're almost nonexistent. Yes, the Government of the Republic made some kind of task force last December. This was most likely also done by the pressure of the EKRE and the Centre Party politicians. But it's not like there's one task force that's gonna guarantee anything yet. When we say that the security situation has changed, but it is only now that there will be no working groups, neither resources nor timetables are in place, this shows the irresponsible attitude of the government towards our security situation and, above all, to its people. But voters think of votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U61	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U62	Thank you. Honourable performer! It's very thorough and, as you said, a multi-layered bill. That's why we might need a little philosophical background here. Why don't you talk a little bit over there on the walkie-talkie? On the one hand, it is as if we are preparing for war, I mean the rhetoric of the Estonian Government. Our Prime Minister hopes to have NATO permanent units in Estonia and the larger military forces of the Americans and other allies, so that we are better prepared for war. We know that our strategic position is not the most comfortable. It's like we're preparing for war, but at the same time we've completely forgotten our people, where a man has to go when an air strike comes. We have seen what happened in Ukraine. It came overnight. Where, then, would the government go and where, for example, the Riigikogu, do you have any information? Maybe you're wondering.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U63	Yes, I can say so much that the Reform Party Igor Gräzin and Martin Kukk have thought of themselves in any case. There's a place under Toompea's castle to hide. But where will the rest of the people go? What is the training, as I mentioned, for parish elders, for councillors? How do people behave, how do they store food? How is health care and food security ensured in a crisis situation? Martin Kukk and Igor Gräzin, members of the Reform Party, are reluctant to think about this. I'll just give you an example. Let's talk about our actual security situation. Russian military forces are close to our border, 400,000 men on paper, but there's probably about 300,000 of them here. There are 15400 tanks in Russia. The strength of the Western district is estimated to be 40% of the entire army, so there should be at least 6,000 tanks near the western border. I'm not talking about the Russian Federation's anti-aircraft capabilities. I mentioned that we have four very large security holes. But I didn't get an explanation. It's a good thing you asked, because I'm going to finish with an example of how the government feels about our security situation. On 27 July last year, the vessel of the Russian navy entered our territorial waters of Saaremaa in Tagalahe. The ship was towed and reportedly storm sheltered. No official went to check the situation and it is questionable whether they knew what it was. The local defence allies were worried and went to investigate. It is possible that the ship was in the shadow of a storm, but it is also possible that certain underwater operations were performed. That warship was a diver vessel. The fact is that its real potential purpose remained unknown to our authorities. By the way, the same tug, but this time with the second diver, was in a storm shadow in Latvian waters near the Cour Cape last November. At least the Latvians put their navy ship in there all the time. This is an example of Latvians and our ability. It's also a place to think.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U64	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At the end of the explanatory memorandum, you are quite right to say that investment in security is always an investment in the stability of the local economic environment and the security of the population, which is the constitutional task and responsibility of all of us. Here's the question. Is the decision of one of the parliamentary parties to decouple themselves from the Estonian legal system equally the implementation of the constitutional idea, which guarantees the stability of the economic environment and the security of the population?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U66	Please, let the questioner explain what he means by decoupling from the legal system! I didn't get it. Please specify what you mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U67	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U68	Good manager! Good waitress! Two neighbouring countries of Estonia and Finland are different as night and day. One kept his border guard, the other didn't, one kept his shelters and hoods, the other didn't. But does the government have a decent shelter under Stenbock's house?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U69	Good colleague, that is why we need to get to the government, and then we will find out whether or not there is a shelter. Looking at the way reform parties have taken care of themselves, under this Parliament there is a shelter to hide, they are most likely to have taken care of themselves in the government as well. Our only option is to get into government, and we'll do it. Then we will undoubtedly launch a system that will guarantee the Estonian people, above all, the possibility of going to a shelter in case of danger, that is an environmental disaster or something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U70	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U71	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. The report was very thorough, but did you talk about all the sources of danger and possible results, or did you not say anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U72	Thank you for your question. I'm finishing my report thanks to your question. I have just given an example that our capabilities at sea are very weak. But let us also rely on expert judgements. At the beginning of last year, Navy lieutenant Ott Laanemets wrote an in-depth analysis of the state of coastal surveillance and protection in Estonia in Soldur magazine. It shows that not only is our monitoring and our real defence capabilities against hostile ships and demonstrators lacking, but even the most basic vision of how to improve the situation, at the highest level. Thus, our overseas sea border of over 1,000 kilometres in the event of war is like an open door. The question arises as to why we obtain hundreds of millions of euros of armored combat capabilities if, in the event of war, these units are, figuratively speaking, child's game to be surrounded from behind through the sea and cut off the logistics essential for fighting. I could talk at length with examples of how this could all happen, but I also want to talk about what Mr Sults asked about. What else are our security holes? One of our proposals is to significantly improve the ability to communicate during the war. This is also a strategic issue, because if there is no management or coordination between headquarters and units, it is simply not possible to fight successfully. Communication is a nervous system of the body without which the body does not function. In the event of war, the Estonian Defence Forces have planned communication with radio transmitters only and with cable telephones within small units. Radio communication, regardless of modern equipment, can easily be attacked by special jamming units. Even though messages can be encrypted and hard to eavesdrop on, the right apparatus can simply mute the entire ether. According to NATO, the Russians are currently trying their latest developments in this area in Syria, but there are also signs that this is happening in Ukraine. The fact is that the new system is large-scale, up to 600 kilometres, and is able to mute the area with U.S. communications: satellite communications, drone communications and mobile networks. Our communications are not more powerful, so it is highly likely that in a war situation, radio communication, if not completely down, will be significantly disrupted. Alternatives need to be found and we even have them, but once again they are not planned for defence use. We have been talking about the broadband network project EstWin is being built in Estonia for years. It is a fiber optic cable network designed to deliver fast internet across Estonia. The website of the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation states that by 2018, a network of fiber optic cables must be ready to reach all settlements in Estonia. It's a perfect nervous system that moves information. The underground cable network is immune to ether interference, so information can be moved in it even if all radio stations are dead. The advantage of the network is that even if you cut the cable somewhere, the information will move to the destination by other cables, because it is a network, not a linear cable from point A to point B. It would be criminal not to plan such infrastructure for national defence use in the event of war. Ladies and gentlemen, our whole draft consists of proposals. These proposals are the result of an in-depth analysis, not ideas. We've been investigating and consulting with a number of experts. These are the bottlenecks that have caused the most concern. We have agreed by consensus that 2% of GDP will be allocated to national defence, but now it is time to take a step forward. We need to start looking into what is being done for this 2% and how effective it is. The current national defence development plan seems to have slipped over time and does not seem to take into account the turbulent developments in the international security situation. We would all benefit from establishing substantive parliamentary control over developments in national defence and the adequacy of expenditure. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U73	Yeah, there have been questions, and we're going with them. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U74	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! You were talking about civil protection shelters in Finland. I'm pretty well aware of this because of my previous life. I asked our prime minister about these shelters right here in the hall. Since the Prime Minister is a reform party, I think what he said to me is the position of the entire Reform Party. He said we'd be guaranteed civilian protection with mid-earth anti-aircraft missiles. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U75	As I said when presenting the draft, in order to ensure a uniform security carpet across Estonia, we need very short-range rocket systems and we do not have them. If the Defence League is not involved in anti-aircraft, we are not really based on the principle of total defence, that every county and village are protected. We rely only on the Defence Forces in anti-aircraft, and I think that's a mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U76	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U77	Good President! Dear colleague! I have to say, this whole bill gives me total cognitive dissonance, it's like bipolar. I would like to remind you of some of your party's basic security policy positions, at least those of your chairman. For example, the annexation of Crimea is legitimate. Perhaps in the current context, it is more important for you to consider that the last Estonian governments have caused more loss of life for Estonia than the Soviet occupation. In this connection, the question arose of your desire to limit the operation of hostile aircraft. Which country or whose aircraft do you mean? Do you want to limit the operations of NATO aircraft? You'd expect danger to come from there, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U78	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that a good questioner can also be benevolent when he asks the question, not always malicious. Of course, when we talk about developing our defence capabilities, we know where the real threat might come from, we are talking about the Russian Federation. But we are also talking today from this point of view that if we develop our security forces, this should be done in substance. We need to develop not aggressive elements, elements of attack, we need to develop not a sword, but a shield. Our shield must be so strong that no one would want to bite it. That's the point. But the Reform Party has already asked repeatedly here who could attack Estonia. I think your historical knowledge is good enough to understand who we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U79	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns point 3 of the draft and the proposal to develop a development plan against possible military threats at sea. In your previous reply, you mentioned that there is no danger of being feared by Latvia or Norway. Are there other countries that could be excluded in the context of this third point?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U81	The faction of the Centre Party must brief the Reform Party on the security situation in Estonia and our actual situation, the possibility of natural disasters, the countries that may attack Estonia, the countries that are friendly to us and who are not so friendly. The doors of the Centre Party Group are open to you, come by, I'll tell you about it and show you the documents. I can tell you more because you have a state secret permit. You can learn more about things. But it's the third time you've asked about a real threat. That's very interesting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U82	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U83	First, I'll comment. There was talk of goodwill. I therefore hope that the rapporteur will avoid any vulgar insults in the future when talking about the shelter of the Reform Party. I would stress that if he had time, he would go through there. This is a shelter built during the Soviet era on Toompea, which is completely unusable. Unless he thinks this shelter is a gym, which I suggest you go to, because your health will get better. But in order at least to make this clear to me in black and white, I ask you this: do you consider Russia to be a military threat to Estonia? Yes or no? No comments, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U84	I would like to state that I, like you, have been familiar with the history of Russia for a thousand years. [[Interjection. The manager's ringing the bell.]] Our defenses must be so strong that no one wants to attack us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U85	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U86	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I have a question about the explanatory statement. It has been explained to us here that we need to do everything in an accelerated fashion, improve our own defence capabilities, and untie ourselves a little bit from our partners, not to be addicted to them. Do you see any developments that I have not noticed in the direction that our allies may at one point no longer be our allies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U87	Yes, history has shown that at some point allies may no longer be allies. Therefore, the most important element in security is the independent defence capability. A country that hopes only for its allies and does not develop its defence will deceive its people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U88	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the reform party is mainly concerned by what has been said by the opposition party at one point or another for nine or ten years, but they do not understand in any way that our national defence is essentially composed of gaps of ability, as it is 16 years of responsibility for governance. Can you briefly repeat what these most critical capacity gaps are? Are they outstanding because we have no money or because we have not had a government-level will?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U90	I'll start at the end. The claim that there is no money is certainly not true. You are also aware that 180 million euros were planned to improve the armoured manoeuvrability, for which 44 infantry battle vehicles and 37 support machines were planned to be purchased. But our planning ability is that the real cost, as you know, is much higher and it all costs over EUR 300 million. So I think that if we were to improve planning capacity in the Ministry of Defence and also give the National Audit Office the power to control military procurement, for which we have fought only EUR 250,000, we would find hundreds of millions of euros to make our security more efficient and efficient. But, as I said, an important gap is communication systems that have not been developed. Our anti-aircraft is incomplete, too, and the Defence League has not been included. However, when we talk about the danger situation, there are major gaps in the system of shelters and in the training of citizens, or civil protection, in the protection of the population. It is embarrassing that the current government has failed to do its job here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U91	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have put forward a number of excellent proposals on how national defence can be strengthened. I'm sure you're right in a lot of ways. I'm not gonna argue with that. At the same time, the defence budget is relatively clearly fixed, at 2% of GDP and even slightly more. In order to realise these proposals, quite a large amount of budgetary resources are also needed. What do you think has been done wrong with this 2%? Where should we take this money from, which elements of national defence, so that your proposals can be realised? What funds have been wrongly procured, and where has this money been misplaced?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U93	It would be very rude to start arguing in such a brutal way that what is wrong. But I'm sure there's been some planning mistakes. I mentioned armoured maneuvering planning earlier. I have given an example that the cost of 44 infantry combat vehicles and 37 support machines was set at EUR 180 million, but it is now visible that it will still cost more than EUR 300 million to upgrade and develop them properly. Not all nuances were foreseen as the procurement team was either not sufficiently competent or careful. This is one example. So we already find 120 million euros in one example, but there are smaller things here. As I understand it, we've gotten barettes, for example. It's such a fancy hat whose value in battle isn't very great. With regard to combat capabilities, it's worth zero, but we're paying EUR 65000 for them. We're getting 37 support scales from Norway, which may be very necessary, but we can see that we're doing it outside the procurement plan. It shows that available resources exist somewhere. We have tender plans in place, but there is still some kind of purchase outside the procurement plan, either for EUR 1 million or for EUR 2 million. These are a few examples that show that there is a great deal of resources. That's the problem. Once again, the reform party in particular depended a few months ago on whether or not to give the National Audit Office 250,000 euros for the development of military competence. I think that with the help of the National Audit Office, we would have been able to track down a very large number of expenditures in their entirety. The opposition, as you know, still takes a piece from there and a piece from here, but the National Audit Office has the opportunity to go deep and comprehensively into the documents. With our individual examples, we have already received EUR 150 to 200 million here. I think that if we were to take the National Audit Office to help, we would find 300-400 million euros, which we could invest much smarter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U94	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U95	Thank you! Dear waitress, The issue of defence has always been a cross-party issue. No one, as far as I can remember, has tried to gain the benefit of the moment or to cut the political profile on this subject. So far, it has been very clearly respected. It's probably the first time this situation has changed. You have been on the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu for quite a short time and you are currently performing here as a very large expert. 300 million from here, 200 from there, that's the right investments, but they're the wrong investments. Where do you get that confidence? Do you realize this isn't really a serious thing you're doing here? From the level of your incompetence, you kind of write to zero for decades, today you can say that, the development of the Defence Forces, what has been done. I think the Defence Forces have the capacity for today, and there are specialists. Where do you get that courage?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U96	First of all, I would like to thank the Social Democrats for showing their incompetence so strongly right now. In a situation where I have demonstrated security gaps that are very substantive, as a social democrat, you really should be very ashamed and embarrassed to be a member of your party. Your party has held the Secretary of Defense portfolio long enough and there should be no such security holes. It is very cynical to see a desire for political points everywhere. I think it is primarily for Members to act on their conscience. If you can see that the Estonian people are unprotected, but the Social Democrats are starting to worry about their mistakes being brought out, it is really a little too selfish. So I suggest you look at the whole picture more and forget that you have to take responsibility for the Secretary of Defense portfolio, even though you can see that this is beyond your party's control. It is the task of every member of the Riigikogu to worry about the security of its people. Let's end the vanity fair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U97	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, I will take care of this subject of consensus on the issue of national defence. I don't see any breaking consensus here. I see the focus on gaps and this is not breaking consensus. The consensus is that we are all jointly concerned about the state of defence. I understand the Social Democrats are repeating history again. Before World War II, in Finland, it was the Social Democrats who tried to vote down all the arms procurements and the costs they would spend on it, to prevent the Mannerheim route from being established and, at all, the ability of Finland to oppose the Soviet Union. Now, having been responsible for defence for a long time under the leadership of two incompetent ministers, the Estonian Social Democrats repeat the same mistake. Do you think there's some consensual dissonance in the National Defence Committee or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U99	I think the National Defence Committee has been very consensual. I would like to state that all six political parties act in a consensual manner in defence matters. We have agreed that 2% of GDP is earmarked for defence, and no one is going to reduce it. That's what we agreed on. But if someone wants to close some of the security gaps or points to them every bill is essentially a debate, and no one comes here with the sole truth, but comes with some concern, some sort of solution with moves, then there would be a substantive debate on how to solve these problems together, or even disprove them, if necessary. Today, no one has broken the principle of consensus; 2% of GDP has been agreed; we will not reduce that. It is now a question of how much we are willing to increase this amount, contribute to it or replay priorities. As I said, these security holes in communication systems, population protection, anti-aircraft, anti-tank defence and coastal protection are very clear places to pay attention to. There are two options: one instrument is the draft decision; the other instrument is that we admit, yes, there are problems, but we solve them, for example, in the development plan, put new priorities there, play some emphasis around there, start discussing where we can still put the money in the Ministry of Defence's administration, whether we can find available resources there. Maybe we don't have to go from 2% to 2.5%. There are so many examples that money has been wasted. We could eliminate a lot of security gaps by stopping the waste of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U100	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good colleague! When these major gaps are closed, what is your position or that of the Centre Party Group? For example, would it make sense to increase the percentage of defence expenditure in next year's budget as a one-off measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U102	This proposal could certainly be considered. The first proposal is to review the available resources, where the money has been placed, whether it has been viable, purposeful, sufficiently effective. If we do not find the means to implement these priorities there, the proposal you have made will in any case be credible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U103	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U104	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 14 January before submitting it to the first reading. Jaanus Karilaid, a member of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu, introduced him as a representative of the drafter. Mr Jonathan Vseviov, Chancellor of the Ministry of Defence, took part in the meeting of this committee as an expert. The Riigikogu Board set the deadline for submitting amendments on 31 December 2015 at 13:00. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. At the session of the National Defence Committee, where all nine members from all political groups of the Riigikogu participated, it was decided (6 members in favour and 3 against) not to support this draft. The reasons for not supporting the draft are as follows: There are undoubtedly important issues raised in the draft, or otherwise Jaanus Karilai would not have stood before us for so long. In the face of the truth, however, it must be said that the executive authority is already dealing with them. For example, it is the government's 2015/2019. Protection of the population is a priority under the 2006 action programme. A task force on the protection of the population has been set up with the task of drawing up the concept. Coastal surveillance and protection and environmental protection are also being dealt with, which are within the remit of different ministries. Parliament expresses its political will, deals with the provision of strategic guidance to the executive. In the democratic rule of law, Parliament is not expected to provide direct tactical guidance, such as the kind of defence-related armaments or specific quantities that the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces must obtain, and to which units such armaments should be provided. The very specific development of defence capabilities outlined in the draft would require either a significant increase in defence expenditure or a failure to comply with planned developments. In the current document 'Basics of Estonian Security Policy', the principle that national defence spending is 2% of GDP is clearly written in Estonian. It should be noted that the Republic of Estonia's expenditure on national defence is already higher than 2% of GDP. More specifically, in 2016, they are 2.07% of GDP, or EUR 449 million, and also last year they were higher than 2%: 2.3%, or EUR 418 million. These were higher than the mandatory defence costs of the NATO Member State. This relates to Host Nation Support (Host Nation Support) or, in other words, the presence of allies in Estonia. Go on. Weapons systems are expensive, they must also be sustainable. In order to get an idea of this, I note that Javelin, the anti-tank system outlined in the draft, has a base price of EUR 73000, but if it is accompanied by administrative, transport and other costs, this amount is almost twice as high as EUR 130000. The majority of the National Defence Committee considered that the focus should be on strategic documents, such as the security policy foundations submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings this year, approved by the Riigikogu and included in the drafting of which the National Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee is involved. This means that it is politically possible to agree on more protection expenditure than 2.07% of GDP. The National Defence Committee is involved in the preparation of the National Defence Development Plan and Parliament plays a particularly important role in monitoring the implementation of the Development Plan. The National Defence Development Plan until 2022 sets priority axes and general resource constraints for strengthening defence capabilities in the development of defence capabilities. The objectives set out in the development plan shall be specified each year in the medium-term development plans and in the national fiscal strategy. Therefore, it is not necessary to wait until 2022 and, if necessary, to react more quickly. In addition, the missing abilities can be offset with the help of the allies. A member of the Riigikogu and the Commission have the right to exercise parliamentary control over the activities of the executive power, which the National Defence Committee does, for example, over the area of government of the Ministry of Defence. Finally, at its meeting on 14 January, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be placed on the agenda of the 21st January session of the Riigikogu for the first reading. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the draft be put to the final vote. The draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U105	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U106	Thank you. Dear waitress, I understood that last year, in 2015, the Council, as you mentioned, was set up with the Committee on Population Protection or something like that. You didn't have a talk, if you didn't have a talk, maybe you will answer, so why was this committee set up 25 years after Estonia had regained independence? In 25 years, wasn't it meant for the safety of the population? The other part of the question is: what does the sustainability of arms mean? Does this mean that the missile should last 46 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U107	I will answer the first question by saying that the 25-year gap you referred to did not come up with in the Commission. However, sustainable means that weapons systems must be integrated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U108	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U109	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You argued with a very powerful sentence that the government is already working on the implementation of this draft. That's the line. But I'm going to ask you what actions are planned to involve the Defence League in improving anti-aircraft capabilities. Is there really a plan to get super-short-range anti-aircraft systems?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U110	I represent the National Defence Committee here and say that there was no discussion of this in our sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U111	March Sults, please! Missing. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U112	Good manager! Good waitress! I was glad to hear that the government was already shoving them in four holes in a hurry. But when will the people of Estonia be equipped with proper shelters? A little more question: do you know if there's a shelter in Stenbock's house?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U113	I always congratulate Peter Ernits for his journalistic questions. I really like these questions. But to be honest, they do not concern the substance of the draft we are currently discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U114	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U115	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The "Baseds of Estonian Security Policy" and the Development Plan of the Defence Forces have been documents for years. The world has changed greatly in the meantime, Russia has become a direct aggressive and attacking country that has initiated a number of conflicts. What is the basis for your view that we must follow outdated documents in today's geopolitical situation and not bring forward improvements in the capacity envisaged in the development plans? Do you really think that if Russia wants to attack, it will wait for us to follow our development plan and then attack?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U116	The foundations of security policy will be discussed in the Committee on National Defence and later in this large Chamber in the near future, if not in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U117	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U118	Thank you. Good performer! You mentioned that the Commission mentioned that missiles are expensive. Maybe we could start with smaller things, like rupees. We'd be showing good will with it. Was there anything about basically starting something?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U119	Good questioner! We didn't have a special discussion at that meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U120	My assistants say that March Sults has no right to question. Although there's a number two in front of his name, he hasn't been able to ask. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U121	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Jaanus Kariladi's presentation was very thorough and meaningful. It is precisely the national defence capabilities and personal defence capabilities that must be very, very high. I'll give you a crazy example of a crazy day that was, as they say, some metalman's night in Tallinn. That day I ended up in Citysec's store where I bought bullets for my own gun to go to the shooting range. I had men in uniform standing before me. They were police officers and defence allies who bought rubber bullets for their personal money and all the other things I saw with my own two eyes, because by tonight they were afraid that the riots would go off. I do not understand why you do not want to support the initiative of the Jaanus Kariladi and Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U122	It doesn't depend on my personal will. I told you the result of the vote. The result of the vote was that two thirds of our committee opposed this draft, did not support it, and one third was in favour of it. The Centre Party and the EKRE were in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U123	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Madame waitress! Your report revealed that the government is already dealing with all these problems, perhaps it has acknowledged that there really are security holes. We are thinking about crisis situations, such as a terrorist act, a major natural disaster or an economic disaster. There may be a need for very rapid inter-municipal coordination, for example, to evacuate residents from one municipality to another. What is the state's current support for such crisis cooperation between municipalities? I am thinking of training, training and the assurance that, where necessary, the protection of the Estonian population is always guaranteed, and that local governments are used to ensuring this together.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U125	Thank you very much. I am sorry that the good questioner at the moment we went to the Ministry of the Interior and were just talking about population protection and task force was not yet a member of the Riigikogu. We have that information. You can kindly ask Jaanus Kariladi who attended that meeting at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U126	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Ain Lutsepp on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U127	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! On the first part of the draft decision tabled by the Centre Party Group 158 on ensuring the protection of the population, the Free Party has such a view that we share the concept of the Centre Party. This issue needs to be addressed. The Free Party is of the opinion that the security of Estonia must be assured and that the defence of the population, its development and maintenance, and civil protection are important. We consider it important to develop a broad-based and inclusive national defence model and to increase disincentives with allies. The acquisition of short-range anti-aircraft missiles covered by the Centre Party draft and the acquisition of Javelin anti-tank systems in addition to the existing ones is a major investment. Each such investment requires a thorough analysis and additional funding from the state budget. The Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence have the competence to plan such activities and are known to be dealt with. Since the draft decision would oblige the Government of the Republic to make large investments in the budget, the Free Party questions this draft. At the same time, this draft could be one of the topics of the defence debate. Finally, a small country does not need to plan a war for its future, but it must be prepared for defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U128	Mart Helme, please, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U129	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by not evading the spiteful questions of reform parties, whether Russia could be an enemy of Estonia. It couldn't be. It probably is. [[Surprise cry from the floor.]] It's perfectly clear, there's nothing to argue about, there's no way to hide your head in the sand. It is easier for me to say this than for the middle party because there are no Russian people in our group. That's one. Secondly, this whole bill is a little inclined. In fact, this whole debate is a bit inclined towards the fact that we are always at war. Warfare and purely militar defense are part of security. I would remind everyone here that there is a nuclear bomb in our immediate neighbourhood, such as the Sosno or Bor power plant, which has been repeatedly pointed out as a potential source of a nuclear spill or a nuclear disaster. If there is a bang à la Chernobyl, then Estonia is absolutely not ready for such a thing. This is one concrete example of why we need to pay more and faster attention to the protection of the population. I reject all other aspects: food supplies, drinking supplies, medical supplies, rescue capabilities, technological solutions, communications, etc. These are all specific subjects, I'm not going to dissect them one by one. But they are part of this same population protection complex and it is quite clear that we, as a country, are not ready to handle all these tasks. There's no point in arguing here and saying we are. Now, one more problem. Mr Marrandi criticised the fact that political professionalism was being cut off from defence issues. They said it never happened before. I'm sorry, I'm sorry! What did the Prime Minister do when he marched along Ämari's runway in the face of NATO fighters? Isn't this about cutting a pro on this? Oh, yes, it is! Let's not articulate such childish things in this hall! There's no point. It just doesn't make sense and it's embarrassing. Now I come to the military side. On the military side, the draft presented by Jaanus Kariladi has very well highlighted the gaps in our security capabilities. There's a lot of them. It is not just a question of whether and how many anti-tank or short-range missiles we have. The question is also where and at what price we have obtained them. In recent days, I have met a number of military experts specifically, whom I dare call independent. They have pointed out that a number of things have been done from a completely wrong perspective, and they cost the Estonian state much more than different solutions. Let's get the same Javelins. These are good things, but military experts claim that alternative options could have been found. For example, a similar system produced in cooperation between Germany and Israel would be significantly cheaper. The purchase of armored hulls from Norway was also a very wrong purchase, as their conversion costs around EUR 50 million. In addition, it is completely out of focus that armoured capabilities consist of three components: tanks, infantry vanes and mobile cannons. We're two out of three. This means that this one third doesn't work either, and we've kind of started off at the wrong end. Another thought: why do we have to buy all the things? We are not able to buy and maybe there is no need to buy a whole bunch of tanks at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U130	Honourable waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U131	I'll take extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U132	Very nice. I was gonna ask you what we're gonna do now. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U133	Thank you. We would also be able to lease tanks because we first need to train teams, create support systems, exercise courses, etc. At least I haven't heard that we've considered leasing. But we could consider it. Finally, the last issue, but not the most irrelevant one. The documents on the basis of which we are currently operating development plans and other concepts are written when Russia had not annexed Crimea, Eastern Ukraine had not experienced the terrible events that have taken place there in the last few years, no one had yet heard of mass immigration or threatened the stellar combination of ISIS. They have come up on the agenda in the last year or two. If we cling to existing documents now with bureaucraticly marinated brains and say that we have everything and we do what we have to do then, you know, it is such a sixth-grade approach. Let's not be sixth graders! Let us be a creatively responsive and forceful country that reviews priorities when necessary and saves where possible! When we talk about money and we love to talk a lot about money, I remind you that we have blown up a few hundred million euros with Estonian Air, we have a stolen Port of Tallinn, we have set up 50 million euros in a new airline. It's all change, of course, but it means there's money out there. I'm not talking about the ESM and the EFSF, where we've gone half a billion. The Estonian state has money like mud. But we should count our money and do it in such a way that we can use it, among other things, to improve our defence capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U134	On behalf of the Madis Milling Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U135	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a lot of talk here today about cutting political pros. I don't see it that way. On the contrary, I am sincerely pleased that the Centre Party has also started to think about Estonian national defence. As a former national defence teacher and defence ally, I have seen many times from my students (they, on the other hand, reflect the situation in their homes) how helpless really are today's people. Let's call it the learned helplessness. Let's start here with a lot of talk about communication about how many people at home even have batteries-operated radios so they can hear what Vikerradio says to them in an emergency. That's the gap. I agree with my colleague, Mrs Karila, one hundred percent that informing the population and a systematic approach to this whole issue is very important. There is no doubt about it, it has to be dealt with. The protection of the population in the event of natural disasters and industrial accidents, as well as the protection of the military, were committed here today. I would keep these topics clearly separate. Very much has been said about the so-called Soviet word 'civil protection'. The mistake that has often been made in the history of the world is that it has been prepared for the previous war. Today's war isn't the kind of war that's approaching the bombing airstrip, the anti-aircraft showdown, and people are heading for an organized shelter. Today, the Iskandar missile is approaching, and no one will notice or be able to respond to it. So military civil defence, as such, is a much more complicated issue today than the fact that we have been let down from Soviet shelters. However, I agree with one hundred percent that local authorities are hesitant and their crisis defence committees are purely formal and do not really know how to act when, for example, as Mr Karilaid pointed out, ammonia is going around the railway in the city centre of Tartu. Now, the missiles. If there was a lot of money, I'd buy anything right now. But don't just look at the price of one rocket. There's gonna have to be a trained team on this missile. No gun fights unless there's a man behind it. But the team's training costs, the missile needs storage, the crew needs accommodation, it all needs structural units, and it all requires much more money than just the cost of this missile. Once again, we deal with the strategic level, the tactical level stays with military experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U136	Sven Mikser on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am delighted that all political parties are concerned about national defence, both internal security and external security. But defensive planning is an unspoken complex process. This was also indicated by the previous speaker. To believe that neither the Estonian Defence Forces nor the Estonian Government are aware of the power gaps, that is, the military capabilities that the Estonian state does not have at its disposal today, would be naive. Perhaps some of the initiators of the draft, hearing that Estonia does not have tanks or midland air control, scared, was shocked, and said that how could it not be? In fact, it is known which weapons systems, everything and more, are available and certainly used to protect Estonia. Our limits are based on human resources, including financial resources. If we look to the future, about three years ago, when making the state budget, we plan more or less the available resources in the budget strategy with a three-year view, then in defence planning this view will be much longer. Protection plans, including defence procurement plans, will be made in about ten years. In this ten-year period, they will be reviewed periodically. These plans are based on the assumption that the resources we use will also be visible in the future at 2% of GDP. If we are more or less able to estimate these estimates, in a ten-year perspective, may be somewhat imprecise, at the level of 2% of GDP, then we know how much money we have. If we know how much this will cost us, for example, for personnel costs in the Defence Forces, and if we plan infrastructure development there, both those that improve the housing conditions of the Defence Forces and those that improve the training conditions, we can calculate the amount that remains for the procurement of equipment, including new weapons systems. Defence forces are the best experts in this field and their wishes are certainly greater than opportunities, but as intelligent people and professionals, they can put their wishes in line on the basis of priority. In certain cases, as with the development of armoured capabilities, they can also put them in a certain logical order. The fact that we are starting to create armoured capabilities from the so-called smaller scales and smaller tubes and gradually going towards the thicker scales and the larger calibre has been the best military advice the Defence Forces have been able to give to political decision-makers. If women have told anyone in the sauna that they could do the exact opposite, we shouldn't be taking it very seriously here. I think that the consensus on defence policy could be more or less such that we listen very carefully to the advice of military experts and try not to overwhelm each other in this Chamber, claiming that nothing about what the generals say we will first buy some other iron, some other elements of equipment, and that they will somehow use it to protect the Estonian state. That's not how it works. I think we would then take a good step back in the development of our national defence. In a few decades, we have come to the point that we are quite capable of assessing what is a resource and training need for one or the other. We can plan the entire life cycle of the weapons system, because creating some kind of ability does not just mean buying iron, as it often seems to some fresh Member of Parliament when looking superficially that we buy a gun or a tank, and then we have the ability. That is not the way it will be and never will be. Staff training must be provided, infrastructure must be set up to enable training to be organised for this weapons system. It is necessary to plan the procurement of ammunition and the maintenance of their weapons systems. What we have to deny is that we have sometimes stumbled into creating our ability to acquire some weapons systems, but after a few or three years, it turned out that the pipe still has resources, but the ammunition is no longer produced for such a system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U138	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U139	Can I have a few more seconds, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U140	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U141	So let us not make long-term strategic decisions that directly affect the security of the Estonian state, based solely on what someone has told us in the corridor. After all, we hear these stories with one ear and another, and we can critically appreciate them at other times. Let us not try to bring these decisions into this Chamber for any political gain. We could all trump each other: why two million Estonians, why not three or five, why just tanks, why not aircraft carriers or submarines? We know the military abilities that exist in the world and are available for good money. At the same time, let us also remember what our resource constraints are, and let us trust the best military advisors in the order in which and which systems Estonia would best be able to obtain. In civil defence, we certainly have things to go on with, places to be repaired are also in the creation of military capabilities. It is in these days that the best experts are working to renew our ten-year plan. All that we are currently discussing as power gaps is, in fact, seriously at stake in these debates as well. But inevitably, looking ahead in the next ten years, we have to say that everything we want, and even everything we need, we just can't afford. So have a sober mind and a calm debate! We are keeping the security of the country in so far as it is possible to do so outside such a day-to-day struggle and earning points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U142	Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U143	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I sincerely thank the Free Party, the EKRE and also the Reform Party Madis Milling for a very constructive and statesmanly debate. Thank you for the questions, including the recognition of mistakes and the perception that something needs to be improved. Unfortunately, the representative of the Socialists, Sven Mikser, came into the hall and went out of the hall without listening. What did he really say? He said that we wanted to buy tanks and midland air control systems. These are both false claims. The former Minister of Defence does not even go into the draft we are debating in Parliament! We were talking about super-short-range air control, we didn't say anything about mid-range air control. We haven't talked about getting tanks yet either. We were talking about four security gaps, all of which are strategic. The protection of the population is strategic, improving the deterrence and defence capabilities of the defence forces is a strategic concept, coastal surveillance and protection, together with the development of the respective capabilities, is a strategic area, and the development of military relations is also a strategic area. Those aren't tactical questions. Secondly, we argued that we have involved Estonia's best security experts in drafting the draft. Sven Mikser claimed that this was what women told us in the sauna, but his presentation was in that style. The parliamentary politician should certainly not be guided by the view that they will decide in that ministry and that Parliament will then run after the ministry, Parliament will not have the opportunity to set new priorities, to set new emphasis and trends, and to deal with security gaps. All decision-making, competence and planning are concentrated in the Department of Defense today. Now I understand why the Social Democrats and the Reform Party rejected the proposal of the Central Party Group to create a military audit capability at the National Audit Office. It turns out that we have a country with a strong budget that wants to deliver on its own. I gave this example before, but I want it to continue to sound: 180 million were foreseen in the planning of armoured manoeuvring, but it will actually take over 300 million euros. Is this the competence that our government agencies offer? Is it true, then, that Parliament must not intervene or point to this problem and that debate is forbidden here? So where are we gonna debate? So I ask the members of the Riigikogu to support the statesman's mind and the draft decision! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-21_U144	There are no more requests for speech, and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since the draft requires a majority in the composition for adoption, we will carry out a verification of our presence. As you can see, 65 members of the Riigikogu are present and there are no 36. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft 158 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 24 members of the Riigikogu) by 34 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. The decision was not taken. I'll see you next week. Closure of the sitting at 12.36 p.m.
