ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, you all have a happy New Day and, of course, a long slide! Usually women don't work that day. But we are now going to the meeting of the fourth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. The referral of drafts and enquiries begins. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to hand over the draft Act amending § 34 of the National Defence Act initiated by the National Defence Committee. The purpose of the draft is to increase the role of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu in sending the active troops of the Defence Forces to international military operations on the basis of a general mandate. The draft also foresees that this decision will no longer be taken by the Minister of Defence in coordination with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but will be taken jointly by the Government of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U3	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to the question that the members of the Central Party Group will present to the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. It may seem surprising to some of you, but for several years now, various steps have been taken in vocational education to promote vocational education, to increase its popularity and to draw attention to it. One of these has undoubtedly been the Young Championship, organised by the Foundation Innove, which has been of great interest to young people as well as to the public. People really do go and look at it, you have also seen it in the hairdressers', cooks' and confectioners' competitions, but why not in the metalworkers' and woodworkers' competitions. Unfortunately, however, the 2016 public procurement shows that Young Master is not taking place this year, nor does it seem to be preparing it. We have a question for the Minister why the Young Master is not being organised. Is it this year's exclusion and dispersal into educational institutions (in other words, it would be possible to respond to the fact that it could be organised at school level instead of organised in joint competitions) a conscious activity of the Ministry of Education and Research? Is the Minister really convinced that there is no need to promote vocational education anymore? Now the Minister may also know that 'Young Master' is a very constructive event, and this should be organised in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U5	On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one bill and one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check. 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U6	On today's agenda, we have one item on the agenda: the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! I will present the procedure for dealing with this item. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice is the presentation by Ülle Madise, which lasts up to 20 minutes, then the presentation by Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which also lasts up to 20 minutes, and then the presentation by Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, as well as up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. Then there are negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to today's agenda. Chancellor of Justice of the Speaker's Office, Ülle Madise!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Having carried out an in-depth analysis, I ask you to align with the Constitution § 6 (5) (4) of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act in conjunction with § 6 (1) (1) (1) of the Unemployment Insurance Act. Let me briefly talk about the substance of the matter. Such a situation in which a person has paid unemployment insurance contributions but, in the event of the cessation of working income, does not receive unemployment insurance benefits, simply because of the fact that he or she is a member of the company's management board, i.e. he or she does not receive such benefits even if he or she has not been paid as a member of the management board, is contrary to the principle of equal treatment, freedom of business and fundamental rights of ownership, i.e. Articles 12, 31 and 32 of the Constitution. As usual, I'm talking about the scale of the problem. The scale of the problem, as is undoubtedly well known to you, is quite large. This concerns, above all, those people who have a company in which they are members of the board of directors alongside their paid work. Companies with no turnover, i.e. they are passive, but they do not have to be wound up according to the Estonian legal order if they fulfil their reporting obligations, are in fact relatively large. It is perfectly humane that a person who has found paid employment will, for example, stop his activity in a private limited company, which belongs only to him and where he is the only member of the management board, for the duration of his employment. If, for example, this person loses his or her salary as a result of redundancy, simply because of the fact that he or she is a member of the board of directors in his passive private limited company, he or she will not receive unemployment insurance benefits, even though his or her unemployment insurance contributions have been paid for during the required period. Such treatment is unequal treatment within the meaning of the Constitution, without reasonable and appropriate justification, compared to all others for whom unemployment insurance contributions have been paid, who lose their jobs and then, as long as they either start their business or find new employment, they receive unemployment insurance benefits in order to remain on the water. It is also possible to leave the company's board of directors or to liquidate the company. This has been highlighted when this provision is justified. Such compulsion, of course, violates the freedom to conduct a business contrary to the Constitution. In addition, according to a study commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs, referred to in footnote 11 of the proposal on your desks, if you wish to make sure of it, in many cases people in this situation have found a so-called tanker in their place of management, taken out the unemployment benefit until the end and then went into business, then officially. The current regime, which has been in force for nearly two years, has been explained so that the person on the company's board is not working, i.e. it is as if an abstract job is secured. I am afraid that this position cannot be shared, because there is still a guarantee of a decent income. This is also supported by the European Social Security Code, namely Article 20 thereof. This is a Council of Europe agreement, which is binding on Estonia since 2004. I am also talking about abuses. It is quite understandable that the social security system must guarantee people who really need help, and it must be structured in such a way as to make it difficult to abuse, in the right case even impossible. We've been working on abuse issues. In fact, paying unemployment insurance premiums for the purpose of later participation in an abusive insurance system does not simply pay off. Too much will have to be paid to be part of the system. It is a very well-built system in this sense. As far as health insurance is concerned, this is a separate issue. The current proposal has focused on unemployment benefit and unemployment insurance. It is clear that the Riigikogu, as a legislator, has a wide margin of decision in the design of the social security system, but it must not violate the core of social fundamental rights, which means ensuring a substitute income for those who have lost their working income. As we know, the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic have also begun seeking a solution. I very much hope that a solution will be found quickly. This time, too, there are those entrepreneurs whose concerns I have learned about, and I believe that you too have learned about it, in fact, dozens. There are also many who have not spoken of their concerns. I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs for the traditionally meaningful and interesting debate. I'd be happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U8	Thank you, dear waitress. You really do have questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! You have made a very sensible proposal and you have explained clearly why the current rule has been contrary to the Constitution. My question is theoretical. Could and how could this harmony with the Constitution be ensured immediately at the time of the adoption of the law? This is not, in fact, the first time that we are discussing bringing the law into line with the Constitution. The Estonians, of course, have a proverb that better late than never. Maybe you'll give me a little theoretical explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U10	There were probably several reasons for this change in 2014, one of which was the abuse of the health insurance system. However, as has been said, health insurance and unemployment insurance are not inextricably linked and do not need to be. However, when we were preparing this proposal, we again encountered the usual, perhaps a little rigid, thinking in the discussions, especially among those officials who have to implement the law, so that it is as if it were easier to operate with non-sensing solutions. Maybe it's the key. Certainly, if the Riigikogu is ready to demand more flexible and logical schemes from officials in the future, it can only be useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U11	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Can your proposal also be applied to a case where the employee is a self-employed person at the same time? As we know, there has been a long-standing regime that if a person loses his or her job as an employee and is a self-employed person, he or she does not qualify as a subject of unemployment insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U13	Indeed, the current law provides that a person is not to be registered as unemployed if he or she is self-employed. Self-employed workers are not affected by this proposal and cannot be automatically applied to them. If the Riigikogu wishes to reconstruct the social security system more widely, it is in the hands of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U14	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! It is good and right that a country has a constitution and that it is being respected. Your proposal seems reasonable. But I have a question, perhaps, about the other side of the room. A member of the Riigikogu, as you know, if he or she is no longer a member of the Riigikogu at the moment x, the sickness insurance scheme will also be interrupted. At the same time, the other work of a member of the Riigikogu is limited under the law, i.e. it is not possible to guarantee this insurance in any other way. Do you see any contradiction and no solution here, so that everyone is really equal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U16	That's a great question. Thank you. This is actually part of one of the priorities of our house, whose common name is the work of the 21st century. The question is how to secure a fair social safety net, including health insurance, in the context of changing employment relationships. At present, it is true that, with some very well-founded exceptions, those who regularly pay the corresponding tax will receive health insurance. A member of the Riigikogu is the victim of this situation if you wish. The rethinking of this issue is also in Parliament's own hands. I very much hope that in the next year, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice will be able to provide you with the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U17	Thank you, Chancellor. No further questions for you. Mr Kalle Laaneti, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Chancellor and guests! The Constitutional Commission discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice on Tuesday, 19 January 2016. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis also accompanied the Chancellor of Justice's advisers Angelika Sarapuu from the Department of Social Rights of the Chancellor of Justice and Olga Lavrova from the Department of Business Environment of the Chancellor of Justice. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice said that he has proposed to the Riigikogu that § 6 (5) (4) of the Employment Services and Benefits Act, in conjunction with § 6 (1) (1) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, be brought into line with § 12, 31 and 32 of the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice explained that the proposal concerned the right of a member of the company's management board to receive unemployment benefit in the event of loss of employment and income and said that 20 natural and legal persons had approached him on this matter. The Chancellor of Justice stated that if a member of the company's management board has paid unemployment insurance contributions and then loses his or her working income, he or she does not receive substitute income, i.e. unemployment insurance benefits, simply because he or she is registered as a member of the company's management board. Compensation does not depend on whether the company of which a person is a member actually works at all. Thus, there may be situations in which a person with a small private limited-liability company takes up his or her main job and pays unemployment insurance contributions for him or her, but if his or her main job is lost for certain reasons, he or she will be deprived of unemployment benefit because he or she holds a silent limited-liability company. The Chancellor of Justice also explained that, after an in-depth analysis, he found that this regulation was incompatible with the principle of equal treatment, the freedom to conduct a business or the fundamental right to property laid down in the Constitution. The Members of the Commission heard the Chancellor of Justice's explanations and asked him questions. Among other things, there was an interest in whether there might be a risk of abuse in the event of a change of regulation. The Chancellor of Justice replied that the risk of abuse has been seen rather as a health insurance benefit, but the Chancellor of Justice's proposal is not to restore the old regulation in its entirety in the same wording as was in force before 2014. One solution would be to allow the person who lost his or her job to have a replacement income so that the person who loses his or her salary could have a few months to find a way to earn his or her income again. The Chancellor of Justice added that he has considered very carefully whether abuse is worthwhile when a person goes to work, pays unemployment insurance contributions, but then the person is released and receives unemployment benefit after that. It has become apparent that no one pays for such a scheme, because unemployment benefit is not that high and the time it takes is not very long either. Thus, abuse is unlikely because the potential benefit, i.e. unemployment insurance, does not outweigh the costs and efforts needed to abuse. The Chancellor of Justice's advisor pointed out that one possible form of abuse, for example, is that the members of the company's board of directors, as if they were using unemployment insurance to support their business. However, this is not prohibited by the current regulation, as the state does not control the use of unemployment benefit by persons. The Chancellor of Justice also pointed out that according to studies carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs, many people have resigned from the company's board of directors in order to obtain unemployment insurance and have found a so-called tanker who is on the company's board for them. In this case, there is another abuse, but this is not an action that the state should favour. The members of the committee wondered whether this problem might also arise, for example, in the case of a member of the management board of a non-profit organisation. The Chancellor of Justice replied that if a member of the management board of a non-profit organisation does not receive remuneration for his work, his membership of the management board would not be an obstacle to obtaining unemployment insurance benefits if he received a small fee for being a member of the management board, that would be an obstacle. Therefore, the Riigikogu could also review this question if it so wished. The members of the Commission admitted that in order to avoid possible abuse, a regulation was created that would result in the suffering of those who act honestly. It was found that when the Riigikogu starts discussing this issue in the near future, it should be thought of a mechanism to rule out major abuses, while at the same time creating sensible regulation. The Commission noted that, since there are more groups affected by this problem, the issue could be looked at more widely in the development of the new regulation. What was decided? It was decided to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal (consensually) and to appoint Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U19	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U20	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Chancellor of Justice! Good guests! On 19 January, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act into line with the Constitution. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, Chancellor of Justice advisors Angelika Sarapuu and Olga Lavrova, Head of Communication of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice Janek Luts and Head of the Employment Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Siiri Otsmann and Counsellor of the same department Õie Jõgiste were invited. The Commission discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice concerning the right of a member of the company's management board to unemployment benefit in the event of loss of employment and income. The Chancellor of Justice presented his proposal to the Commission to bring the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act into line with the Constitution. He explained that at present, the person who paid unemployment insurance contributions does not have the right to unemployment benefit in the event of loss of income if he or she is a member of the company's management board alongside the main job. According to the Chancellor of Justice, the current regulation is not in accordance with the principle of equal treatment, the freedom of business and the fundamental right of ownership laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Similarly, this unequal treatment is not only contrary to the Constitution but merely because of the fact that the company is a member of the board of directors, but also contrary to the objective of the State to develop small business. The Chancellor of Justice proposed to bring § 6 (5) (4) of the Employment Services and Benefits Act, in conjunction with § 6 (1) (1) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, into line with §s 12, 31 and 32 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The Members of the Commission listened to the Chancellor of Justice's explanations and asked specific questions. Among other things, it was asked whether the option had been analysed if a member of the management board had a legal possibility to pay unemployment insurance contributions. In such a case, he or she would also be entitled to unemployment benefit until he or she starts a new business or applies to the labour market. According to the Chancellor of Justice, it has been examined what other developed European countries have done in such situations and what general trends are. In general, many countries have started to take into account the fact that people receive their income in different ways when determining social security. It is no longer assumed that people will necessarily choose entrepreneurship or paid employment. The Commission decided to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal (consensually) and appoint Aivar Koka, President of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur. The Social Affairs Committee is ready to prepare and process the draft. In a situation where only 5% of the residents of the Republic of Estonia are entrepreneurs, but they are discriminated against in some way, you should look at the wider picture. It also often happens that the company goes bankrupt for some other reason, not because of management, but because of the unpaid invoices of some subscribers, for example. Then a member of the board will not be able to receive unemployment benefit for years as long as the bankruptcy procedure is in progress. The possibilities of supporting self-employed workers should certainly also be reviewed when processing this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U21	Thank you. Dear waitress, there is a question for you. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet waitress! How do you think we should not apply the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to those self-employed who are at the same time employees? Many people in these situations have a bad sense of justice if they lose their jobs as employees and do not qualify as beneficiaries of unemployment insurance, to see that unemployment insurance has been paid at all times.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U23	Thank you, Kalev, for the question. As I said at the end of my speech, I think, yes, that this should be taken into account in the case of the self-employed, even if he is simply a member of the board. The possibility of paying unemployment insurance contributions should be given. I certainly believe that this must be the possibility that he or she will pay unemployment insurance contributions and, if he or she does, he or she will be entitled to unemployment insurance benefits. If he does not pay these payments, he will also not be able to receive compensation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U24	Thank you. No further questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U25	Mr President! Your Honor, Chancellor! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I stand before you for the third time on the same subject: the social guarantee of the board member, or, more specifically, the missing unemployment benefit. The restriction of rights is clearly disproportionate and contrary to the objective of supporting small business, simply because of the fact that the company is a member of the board of directors. Just to remind you that there is a whole lot of companies involved in this legislative amendment we are talking about here today. As of 2014, we had nearly 114000 companies, 94% of them being so-called micro-enterprises. For the first time, on behalf of the Free Party, we tabled a draft to improve the situation on 21 September last year, with a view to largely restoring the pre-2014 situation by granting a member of the board of directors who paid the payment the right to receive aid from the state in case of loss of employment and income. Unfortunately, the government's position was rude: not to support it. Although the absurdity of the situation was and is known, the government was not afraid to announce that the subject needed another further analysis. This promised to be completed in December 2015. Instead of acting quickly and seeking solutions, time was taken off again because an analysis has to be carried out, as foreseen by the programme of action of the Government of the Republic. On 25 November, the first reading of the draft took place and, without any substantive question, the draft was voted out of the procedure. There's a lot of rhetoric going through, so don't bother us, don't break into the open door, because we're actually already working on the subject. It's basically right, but right now, it wasn't the subject of discussion. Tens of thousands of people will have to wait again. To our great joy, the Chancellor of Justice sent a proposal to the Riigikogu in December 2015 to amend a provision which is contrary to the Constitution and which violates the freedom of enterprise and fundamental rights of ownership. On 18 January, the Free Party again submitted a revised draft of the same content to restore the unemployment insurance of the member of the Executive Board, providing assurance from the Chancellor of Justice's point of view on the correctness of the chosen course. In recent weeks, in addition to the issues of implementing legislation of the Cohabitation Act, the media's attention to the issue of unequal treatment of a member of the company's management board has increased repeatedly to the orbit of the press. This is yet another painful issue that disagrees with government members arguing through the media. Mart Laar wrote on 28 January on Äripäev that politicians do not dare or want to think. They don't want to do anything either, but they just move their mouths, including on unemployment insurance. There is a great deal to agree with Lar, but unfortunately, this is accompanied by rigidity and inability to act, which have led to prominence. I'll come back to the analysis done at the Justice Department for a second. I must admit at once that, although I have repeatedly been interested in it, I have not seen it. But it has allegedly resulted in a proposal by the Minister for Justice to resolve a situation which, unfortunately, does not seem to solve any real problems. In particular, the Minister of Justice has proposed to initiate a grant for a start-up company, i.e. a member of the management of the start-up company, paid over a period of six months instead of unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit. In order to obtain new support, a number of strict and restrictive conditions have been put in place which reduces the number of beneficiaries of the aid. It is estimated that some 1,000 board members of start-ups will need such support, and the cost would be EUR 2.8 million. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U26	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U27	A new type of support can, of course, be created, but above all, the problem of operating companies and just honest entrepreneurs needs to be addressed. Find whatever you want, but the link between the problem raised and the solution proposed is impossible to find. Why is there no desire to admit that a mistake has been made and to eliminate it quickly? Entrepreneurial people do not need support, but confidence and confidence that there is a safety net to rely on in the black scenario and that they are taken seriously and treated equally with others. The solution proposed by the Minister for Justice has been responded by the Minister for Enterprise, who has also found that no new support is needed for start-ups, as already different institutions (EAS, KredEx, unemployment fund, Leader programme, PRIA, etc.) already pay various grants. The Minister of Enterprise recommended returning to the period prior to the 2014 amendment. At the same time, he proposed three conditions: no remuneration for the board member, no economic activity and no shareholder dividends. This proposal means that unemployment insurance is granted only by a member of the board of directors from a company which is as good as extinct. It should be stressed here that the withdrawal of dividends is not currently an obstacle to obtaining unemployment insurance if the person is not a member of the board, i.e. is only the owner. Thus, imposing a ban on the withdrawal of dividends only for a member of the board still does not guarantee equal treatment with the rest of the unemployed. However, let us leave examples of this in the press of measuring between the members of the government, and we will come back to the current issue. I sincerely hope that we will find a solution this time, thanks to the proposal made by the Chancellor of Justice, because the issue is undoubtedly cross-party and the solution urgently needs to be found. As a small country, we need enterprising people and we need to do everything we can to give them confidence and the knowledge that the state cares for them and, if necessary, supports them, not punish them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U28	Thank you. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U29	Ladies and gentlemen, Looking back to 2014, when the amendments to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act entered into force, it is clear that these changes were probably due at the time, or abuse had occurred when they were registered as unemployed. Today, a few years later, we see that there is some overreaction and that things should be better regulated. It's true. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal is well-founded. It is very difficult to assess the circle of persons directly affected by this conflict, but it is clear that there are individuals for whom it can be said that there is a breach of the Constitution. The regulations must be brought into line with the principle of equal treatment, the freedom to conduct a business and also the fundamental right to property; there is no question here. The existence of the problem has also been confirmed by the Government of the Republic. The programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2015 to 2019 refers to this problem and ministries are looking for a solution. It's true. What might be a reasonable solution? A reasonable solution is expected to be found in the Unemployment Insurance Act. A situation should be created in which unemployment insurance contributions paid in advance are taken into account either for the salary paid or for the member of the management board. In the context of seeking this solution, the issue of self-employment cannot be excluded. So we are working to ensure that regulation is adopted in the near future, which will eliminate the contradictions with the Constitution. Congratulations to us on finding these solutions!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U30	Thank you. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U31	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are faced with insurance in a number of cases: motor insurance, which is compulsory, life insurance that can be taken voluntarily, property insurance in the same way, we have compulsory pension insurance and health insurance, and it actually includes unemployment insurance. The principle of insurance is very simple. The policyholder and the insurance undertaking shall enter into a contract with each other according to which the insurance undertaking must also fulfil its obligations when an insurance event occurs and the policyholder has fulfilled his obligations. In the case of unemployment insurance, the policyholder is a wage worker who has paid insurance premiums on pay for a certain period of time, the insurer is the State through the unemployment fund and the insurance case is unemployment. Thus, if a person has paid insurance premiums on his or her salary in the prescribed amount and within the required time, he or she is entitled to benefit if he or she is unemployed. So, very simply and briefly, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal is justified and, in fact, very well founded. But how do we proceed? Several questionable places have also been highlighted in this Chamber today. Perhaps the most sensitive question is when an insurance case occurs, whether every time a person loses his or her salary, he or she is also unemployed and is entitled to compensation. A member of the company's management board does not have to pay unemployment insurance contributions on his or her fee. This means that he or she is not entitled to unemployment benefit. We can discuss whether the payment of these payments should be voluntary or compulsory for the board member and, in the event of which benefits, the board member could submit applications for services or benefits only. However, if a person is employed or basically employed, if he or she does not receive anything from the side, he or she is entitled to unemployment benefit. We must not punish people for having ever had a company with a turnover, and they have not yet closed down that company. As the Chancellor of Justice pointed out, the person went on payroll and temporarily stopped his activities in the company. We should also not punish family members who are members of the board of the family business because they want to do things together. We should not punish them simply because they want to have family and friends in the business plan as well, not just in the personal relationship plan. Yes, it has been pointed out that there have been frauds. So how many of these cheaters have there been? First of all, it is very wrong to punish many to prevent a few fraudsters. The right means must be used to prevent fraudsters, which are not unfair to honest people. So far, we have a working record. This excludes a number of forms of fraud that may have existed five or six years ago. But the most important thing is that there are very few people who want to use the benefits of the unemployment fund unduly. I don't think there's a lot of them. Unemployment is a problem, it is a very big problem for a person, there is no point in creating more problems here. And yet, enterprising people don't want them and their family... I'd like a little more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U32	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U33	... suffer simply because they have been brave, risked and started business. I don't think anyone's going to be an entrepreneur with the desire to get unemployment benefit ever. I just don't think so. Putting businesses, those enterprising people who once decided that they were trying, experimenting and their family members is completely unjustified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-09_U34	Thank you. There's no more calls. The negotiations are over and we are going to the vote on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 3 abstentions, and no one opposed it. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal has been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, on the basis of § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I hereby instruct the Social Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.45 a.m.
