ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good day and a beautiful working week! We will begin the 8th working week of the third plenary session. So let's try to speak very beautiful Estonian today. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U2	Mr President, honourable representatives, a beautiful English-language day for all of us! May we enjoy our mother tongue so that we can maintain and develop it and bring it to the level that is required today, namely the digital level. We, the seven members of the Free Party Group, have a mother tongue day request to hand over. This concerns Estonian language education in Russian-speaking comprehensive schools. A little more than a year ago, the then Minister of Education and Science Ossinovski made a very substantive proposal on how to improve Estonian language learning in Russian basic schools. There were today's proposals, such as creative and scientific camps, joint visits to cultural institutions and exchanges of students, which should all contribute to increasing, increasing and strengthening the number of Estonian-linguists. In all this respect, on these specific plans and their progress during one year, the seven members of the Estonian Free Party Group will present an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U3	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I present to the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir an inquiry into unfair trading practices applied to Estonian small producers. I believe that most of us in this Chamber will remember that in 2010, Rimi and the Savings Market decided not to buy Estonian raw pig and beef. Rimi sold foreign meat under its brand, and the consumer could not have noticed that it was not really domestic pork. The aim of this step was to put pressure on Estonian producers to start selling their own-produced meat at a lower price. Although this is a story for years, it is wrong to think that unfair trading practices have disappeared from trade in Estonia. Large retail companies have long been engaged not only in the intermediation of the producer and end-user, but also in the product market themselves and in competition with producers for the end-user for certain products. Retailers, in cooperation with large producers, significantly strengthen their position compared to small producers whose products are easily interchangeable with competing products, and their overall turnover does not depend on the sales of these products. The result may be unfair contractual terms and conditions for the producer, which are not generally prohibited in accordance with the Estonian rules, because we have competition law. However, in other parts of Europe, these conditions are treated differently. All of this we are going to ask the Minister three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U5	Thank you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U6	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the party of the Centre Party, I hand over the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu. The current Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provides that the President, the Prime Minister and the Ministers of the Republic are entitled to make a political statement at a session of the Riigikogu. The executive publication of the Act says that the political statement is the presence of the President of the Republic or a member of the Government before the Riigikogu of his own motion and on the subject of his own choice. According to the general procedure, when we discuss matters here, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask an oral question to the official who has spoken, but the President, the Prime Minister and ministers of the Republic can agree that the members of the Riigikogu cannot ask questions. This is the situation that awaits us today. The Centre Party Group considers that we should make an amendment to the Rules of Procedure and provide that a member of the Riigikogu is able to hold a discussion with the speaker, with at least one question to be asked. Then there would also be an overview of the metaphors used in the rapporteur's speech or of the complaints made by those who are watching the discussion outside the Chamber. In addition, it would eliminate the current special treatment, which allows the President of the Republic and a member of the Government to restrict the right of members of the Riigikogu to ask questions. At the same time, when the Auditor General, the Chancellor of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court or the Governor of Eesti Pank speak in the Riigikogu, we always have the right to ask questions to them. We hope that this change will be supported by the whole hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U7	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U8	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of seven members of the Free Party Group, I have an inquiry to the Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna. The question is about the sustainable activities of women's shelters. Violence in the immediate relationship is a very serious issue. According to the 2015 statistics of the Police and Border Guard Board, the number of crimes related to close relationship violence is constantly increasing, and last year they accounted for a tenth of all crimes. In December 2015 alone, more than 2,000 cases of violence were reported to the police, and last year ten people were seriously injured or killed. It is very important for people suffering from close-relationship violence to receive rapid and professional help. Often, you have to react immediately to prevent more damage. For many years, women suffering from close-up violence have been assisted by a system of shelters. This year, through the Ministry of Social Affairs, the state budget supports the cost of operating and accommodation for women's shelters by EUR 500000, plus EUR 150000 for advisory services. In addition, the Riigikogu provided 50000 euros for advisory services with its own allocation. Unfortunately, however, we are in a situation where the distribution of operating aid has caused severe tensions between shelters and it is not possible to provide the service in the required volume and quality. The centers are most concerned, however, with the lack of clarity that goes on. That is why we are asking Minister Tsahkna five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U9	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U10	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will present today one draft decision of the Riigikogu and three draft laws. First of all, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'lending to the Single European Resolution Board'. The Minister of Finance Sven Sester represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Food Act and the Food Act. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws. The Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law on administrative reform. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu when the draft is processed by the Minister of State Administration Arto Aas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U11	Honourable Riigikogu! I have adopted five drafts and three inquiries. We deliver them on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 87 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session, 14 are missing. Clarification and validation of the agenda. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu session. The Board of the Riigikogu agreed to this. On the basis of § 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I have added to the agenda of today's Riigikogu session a political statement by the Prime Minister, which is the first item on the agenda. Secondly, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has proposed to exclude from the agenda of this working week the second item on the agenda of the Tuesday sitting, the second reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws initiated by the Constitutional Committee. Along with these amendments, honourable Riigikogu, I will put the weekly agenda to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the Riigikogu plenary... Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Can I take a two-minute break? I'm sorry, I didn't see what number you said!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U13	There shall be two minutes' recess before the vote. We'll proceed at 3:15.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U14	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 8th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there is no one against, with 2 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U15	The first item is the political statement by the Prime Minister. In short, I will talk about how it is handled. The Prime Minister's political statement shall last up to ten minutes and, if the Prime Minister so wishes, may, in agreement with the President, extend that period. On the basis of § 155 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau and the Prime Minister agreed that no questions would be asked to the rapporteur. The Prime Minister's statement will be followed by negotiations; representatives of the political groups may speak. Honourable Riigikogu! The Prime Minister's political statement. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U16	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! I will hand over to you the draft administrative reform law approved by the Government of the Republic on 10 March 2016, whose main aim is to ensure high-quality public services and strong local governments throughout Estonia, so that smaller municipalities can gain more capacity to perform their duties and local life is even better organised for the people of Estonia. Although the Government of the Republic has planned a number of reforms and important decisions this year, the implementation of administrative reform is more important than others and very fundamental progress compared to the almost two decades of dispute over the necessity or objectives of the reform. Finally, experts and local government leaders have agreed and the government has decided. Creating a legal framework for the success of the reform is a great responsibility and it is a historic opportunity to make life in Estonia better. More than 15 years ago, in January 2001, the then Prime Minister promised the local government leaders that the territorial administrative reform would be completed within a year. When you do great things, the Estonian 'nine times measured, once cut' is probably justified. But I stress that we must not forget to measure ourselves. If we know that the goal is right and the task is feasible, then things must be done. Honourable ambassadors! Administrative reform has a direct impact on the quality of life of Estonian people. Despite the fact that most people do not get into urban or rural government every day, everyone is exposed to local services, from childcare to care for the elderly. We want strong and capable municipalities and cities to be born all over Estonia, which can better organise education and create an even more favourable environment for entrepreneurship. Although the larger municipality does not automatically guarantee better services, there is a clear presumption that the larger municipality will be able to offer them. Estonia's municipalities must have the capacity to provide equally good service to all people, regardless of whether the person lives in Tärkma village in Emmaste municipality or in Tammelinna in Tartu. When the reform comes into force, we will take a major step towards the northern model of self-government. The reform will help strengthen local representative democracy and increase the role of local governments in Estonian society. As a result of the reform, municipalities will become a stronger partner for the country and, if necessary, a balance of central power. President Lennart Meri said in 2000 that it makes sense to keep the reform closer to the citizen and his country, and above all, the reform cannot be changed to rename the counties as municipalities. The chances of success of the reform, the good listeners, are all the greater, the more thought-out are the merger talks on the ground and the firmer the will of local leaders. I therefore congratulate those municipalities who have already taken the initiative to join. The wise ones are the local government leaders who carry out the reform themselves. I would like to take this opportunity to thank here today, before you, all the experts, the heads of government, the members of the government committee and, of course, the coalition partners who have contributed to the draft law on administrative reform and made this historic moment possible. The draft to be delivered to you is the result of the joint work of the Estonian Reform Party, the Estonian Social Democratic Party and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association of the Party. Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will give you a well-prepared and very necessary reform plan, as a result of which no one can say any more that administrative reform has become a chorus in the song of the failure of the Estonian state. But now it's your turn. Expectations have been raised high and the entire Estonian people are looking at you. Can you adopt this law and thus bring the citizen and his country closer together? We know that for every important issue, there is still a greater or lesser temptation to entangle in thousands of details that could jeopardise the achievement of a great goal. I would like you to see the wisdom to see the big picture and the statesmanship to avoid day-to-day debate on this matter. Thank you and your strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U17	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Estonian Free Party considers it necessary to implement the administrative reform. We are really glad that the Reform Party has awakened some misunderstanding about witchcraft since Andrus Ansip's visit to Brussels, which for a long time prevented them from understanding the importance of the issue of administrative reform. Cooking this bill before us has not been easy for the coalition. In the spring of last year, it was still dreaming that by November last year the criteria to be met by an active municipality would be formulated. Smarter heads were collected and the number of inhabitants in the municipality was finally found. Although listening to the comments of the coalition's parties, it seems that there is no full consensus on whether 5,000 or 11000 people are right or whether the country is full of people. However, the issue of the division of responsibilities at national and local level is currently completely sidelined. Today it is appropriate to refer to a recent article by Kaarel Tarand. He quoted the Constitution: "All matters of local life are decided and organised by local authorities acting independently under the law. ' Here's the catch. The Constitution says 'who'. In the Constitution, the municipality primarily means people, the organisation of relations between them and the rules of decision-making. The current coalition is committed to creating'strong municipalities' that are able to develop local life in a holistic way and where people are guaranteed a good level and accessible public services. 'You can say what it matters, 'who' or 'what'. I think it matters. Whether it's 'who' or 'what' can become a kind of symbol. In the opinion of the Free Party, the most important thing in the parliamentary debate starting today is not the interest of an abstractly formulated state, but of an Estonian person whose quality of life must improve and the opportunities to decide on their lives must increase. Let us trust more good and wise people in local governments! It is important that decision-making decisions should not be digressed and must be maintained on the ground even if there is a common level of governance. In our view, the current draft is an executive. The Free Party wants to see an active representative of the people at first level. This is a matter of changing thinking, not just a technical plan. Cities and municipalities must become equal partners to the state's central authority, not dependent on the manipulations of party offices. In the opinion of the Free Party, one of the major concerns about the draft under discussion is that accession will be the most win-win, I dare say, large districts with broad tentacles, and we will get even more partyed division of power throughout Estonia. There is no doubt that it is easier in a larger municipality to shuffle local electoral alliances from power than in a small one, but the extinction of local electoral alliances may lead to many active people being left out of control of local life at all. We consider it important that the tasks at local level are shared from the bottom up so that all citizens have their own output on how to take part in local decision-making. The question is what the development of communities will be when the centre of power moves beyond them. In the opinion of the Free Party, local communities must be taken into account in the management of the municipality, not only by taking them into account in words, but by sharing rights with community associations. May I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U19	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U20	How to strengthen communities, the draft does not answer this now, but the future of Estonia, believe, is a community-based Estonia. The big question is how the municipalities and districts will work. In order to comfort the Socialists, the concept of "participative" is well in the draft law, but it is still empty at the moment, and the content has yet to be fulfilled. The draft has left the formation of a district council or district council vague. The possibility of assigning opinion leaders, managing authorities, representatives of operators' organisations and other active people to these collections under quota is particularly strange. There are more and more topics that you could talk about. We will take the question of why the rural governments, the purest examples of the party food chain, are currently left untouched by the reform agenda, or the question of how far the new administrative division emerges from the natural historical-geographical distributions. But, of course, not all the issues will fit within the limits of my speech today. There will be plenty to discuss in the future. Today's draft is only the first step in ordering the administration of the state. That's how you approach it. It is clear that the municipal income base and its autonomy must be reviewed. I know that this idea has allies in this Chamber, both on the side of the coalition and on the side of the opposition. Although Mr Anvelt has had a bad dream, he has said to the media that all three opposition parties are hoping to get a political point in opposition to the reform and oppose it unconstructively in order to sink the matter, this dream of my namewit will certainly not be a reality. The Free Party has been born largely on the initiative of community spokespersons and people who have been involved in local electoral alliances for a long time, who know a lot about the municipality. We have both the competence and the desire to play an active part in discussing this draft and to improve it. Whether the opposition will be heard this time will be shown in the coming months. In any case, just as the administrative reform as a whole must create the conditions for various forms of cooperation between people and communities, for cooperation between municipalities, for cooperation between municipalities and the state, so, in our view, too, it is absolutely essential to think together and work together in this Chamber. This is definitely not a point-picking bill. That this is not the case, we think it is necessary to remind ourselves of the coalition policy in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U21	On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U22	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The Prime Minister just handed over the draft law on administrative reform to the Riigikogu. Its main content is the timetable for the administrative-territorial reform of local governments, the minimum criterion for accession is 5000 inhabitants and accession grants. The Estonian administrative map is planned to be redrawn for the 2017 local elections. By this deadline, both voluntary mergers and the so-called "mandatory merger" initiated by the government are to be carried out. At the same time, the draft does not provide answers to the most important substantive questions, such as the tasks of the municipalities and their funding, the development of entrepreneurship and the living environment in rural areas, and the organisation of public administration at regional and regional level. These issues will be allowed to be governed by the following draft laws. It has already been made clear that no changes are planned to be made to the municipal income base before 2018. Since there is no agreement on substantive issues within the coalition, there is no hope of seeing these drafts in the Riigikogu in the near future, so it is impossible to assess the consequences of such a mechanical reform. The slogan 'The Greater Self-government is better and more capable! ' there is no proof that such a merger of local governments is needed. This time, there is no logical justification for the attraction centres in the different regions around which mergers could take place. Experts have already warned that the mechanical interconnection of municipalities without measures to develop rural areas will lead to even greater peripheralisation in many regions. The state reform that the government started to advertise last spring has only changed to draw maps. Without content, it does not improve access to services or the living environment. It must be said that poor access to public services in particular has made life in rural areas difficult, I mean public transport, postal services, road maintenance, etc. The strong position of the Estonian Centre Party Group is that the draft administrative reform can be assessed once the draft legislation on the content of the reform has been developed. We also do not agree that the government wants to implement a forced merger as a matter of urgency. We believe that the first thing to do is to agree on the tasks and funding of local authorities at the legislative level. We recall that, as a result of the economic crisis, the share of personal income tax received by municipalities in 2009 as well as the resources for road maintenance was reduced. Despite repeated proposals by local governments, these funds have not been restored and municipalities have lost nearly 400 million euros of their income base over seven years. A good example of financing at central and local level is upper secondary school education. How does state upper secondary school differ from municipal upper secondary school? The answer is simple: state secondary schools are financed by the state budget according to needs, including large investments, municipal secondary schools are not funded in this way. As long as there have been no substantive changes in the functioning of the municipality and in the revenue base and in the regional administration of the state, we cannot support the mechanical and often illogical unification of local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U23	Mr Kiisler, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U24	Honorable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! When Mart Laar, as Prime Minister in 1992, set administrative reform as one of the goals of the government at that time, he obviously did not think that this was what he was facing from many of his reforms, so long-term and strong opposition from other political parties. Even more than 21 years later, in 2014, the Prime Minister of the Government Taavi Rõivas, after rejecting the draft law on administrative reform submitted by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, said that we should not say that local governments should necessarily join and stated that the quality of people's lives does not depend much on where the border goes. Of course, this moment was another great disappointment to the IRL two years ago. However, we were convinced that it was simply not possible to avoid this reform indefinitely, and we continued to persuade other parties as well. Browsing old newspapers, I found that I myself said two years ago such a sentence that a new government would come in 2015 and then we would do this reform. Now, two years later, we can say that the government really has reached an agreement on the draft this time. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas said today that administrative reform has a direct impact on people's quality of life. So we can be happy to make this progress. You can always complain, but in general, we are moving in the right direction with this reform, given the state we come from. I would remind you that, at the time of the formation of today's government, a year ago, it was discussed which criteria would be used to assess the need for local governments to join. Fortunately, a rational approach was found very quickly, just as it has been in other countries that have done this reform, so that the only reasonable criterion can be the number of inhabitants. The future is increasingly viewed instead of the past when talking about administrative reform. If, so far, we have heard stories of how the collective society was brought together in its own time and, at the very least, these stories have come out today, it is now understood that we need not to think about what the situation will be in the next municipal elections or in a few years' time, but we need to think about 25 years in advance in order to reform it. Let us honestly see what the population forecast is. We need to make it clear to ourselves how many people live in the territory of the present small municipalities, the age composition of the population and the developments in people's relocations. In the same way, we need to take a look and look at larger territory than we have done so far. Regional policy is a policy for regions or regions. In today's world, regions compete with each other, i.e. centres with their hindsight, and it depends on whether people are offered better or less opportunities to cope. What can we do? We can also help the weaker regions to catch up by helping them join together and take decisions together. It's about people. After all, we see that people have long done administrative reform in their daily lives and with their movement. They move across the boundaries of the parish every day, that's not a question for them. We must not stand in the way of their activities and movements in the public sector, but we must go along with life. We are therefore pleased that, just before submitting this bill to the Riigikogu, the government increased its ambitions in this bill. In the light of the IRL proposal, a new criterion was added, i.e. the indicative size of the municipality, i.e. 11000 inhabitants. Since that size, additional support has been provided for the accessioners. Although the minimum size was still 5000 inhabitants and there are some exceptions, no one is asking for small municipalities to be formed, it is always possible to do more. It is important that we encourage and support this. There is another important aspect. The IRL is very pleased that the draft provides for municipalities to be single-tiered. Despite all speculation, it is an unambiguously one-tier self-government system. This is important precisely because Estonia is too small and too poor to build a clumsy bureaucratic apparatus and allow it to blur between different levels of responsibility. Of course, any cooperation is important, but cooperation can only be successful and effective if the players themselves are strong and capable. In fact, the best form of cooperation is accession. I'm sure this bill doesn't solve all the problems. Surely some say that the whole country must first be restructured. But we have to start somewhere. I would like to recall once again the 1992 programme of the Fatherland, which said that only strong municipalities are close enough to man and are flexible enough. So, honourable Riigikogu, let us get the ice moving and adopt this law before summer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U25	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U26	Dear Speaker! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, I'm not that optimistic. To be honest, I must admit that this reform carries with it the apathy and initiativeless embracing of the ideology of sustainable shrinking. It carries the mindset that public authorities cannot change the dynamics or processes of society. I don't see any ambition here. On the contrary, we clearly see two elements in this reform agenda: firstly, the aim is to scrape up more money, particularly at the expense of regional development, and secondly, the intention is to politicise the level of self-government even more. What can be predicted? I can certainly predict that this reform will be very expensive. All the payments made by the local government leaders here under the name of the merger grants are costly. All restructurings are costly. Life is shaken and people are offended and established work routines are corrupted. The consequence is that, after the current reform has been put into effect, a new administrative-territorial reform and a new self-government reform must be carried out in order to have again some functioning local governments in Estonia. It is particularly sad that, according to the current plan, the municipality will actually disappear from Estonia as we know it now. The local decision-making level loses importance, the decision-making process is clearly made more Tallinn-centred, centralised and politicised. Perhaps what my colleague said about the Free Party will happen: local decision-making in the organisation of its own affairs will clearly be reduced. All this municipal reform is clearly missing the most important element and it is an increase in funding. We can draw all kinds of formulas, diagrams and fine-tuning funds, but if there is no real money, then there is no point in talking about strengthening local governments. In particular, I would like to point out that the reform is based again on the Excel table. This 5000 inhabitants inflexiblely and 11000 inhabitants are suggested to be the most authentic example of not thinking about how to make local life work, but speaking the language of the Excel table. We know that the result of all this reform is the continuing decline of rural areas and the movement of people to the centres. In fact, the goal of the self-government reform should be the opposite: to create such municipalities so that people can live anywhere in Estonia and receive public services everywhere. Yes, we understand that in the border area it is not possible to live the same life as in the city centre of Tallinn, but that is why people move away from the city centre of Tallinn because they want a different life. In order not only to criticise, I will give you a vision of what kind of reform we will do when we reform this reform. Firstly, of course, the financing model must be changed. Estonia is one of the countries in Europe where the local government is paid, regardless of whether we are looking at the amounts of the state budget or the ratio to GDP of very small amounts. Next to us are the same Nordic countries that we want to take as an example, where these sums are many times larger. Secondly, in a situation where municipalities are already becoming the size of rural governments, it is quite obvious that the rural government, as an institution, has become a rudimentary and should be abolished. Instead, local government associations should be given a public function and their responsibilities and rights and the mechanism should be defined. Thirdly, the artificial growth of figures is completely unjustified and unnecessary. If we put the financing model in order, there is no reason why a municipality with 2,500 or 3000 inhabitants would not be able to cope perfectly if it were guaranteed the appropriate revenues. And now the most important thing. Clearly, I agree that the current borders have not been up to date. The most sensible thing would be to clear Estonia's map of borders and draw new boundaries according to where people live and move, but not to make the municipalities so large that they should have 10000 or 15,000 or any number of thousands of inhabitants. This would be a real reform that would bring life and entrepreneurship back to the country and make Estonia work again, but of course we do not expect such a reform from the government of the Reform Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U27	Ivari Padar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U28	Mr Prime Minister! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today's the day! The Social Democrats have been supporting administrative reform for the past 21 years. I myself have been actively involved in doing this since 1999 when the second Lari government started working on this reform. And then it seemed like it was going well, and it was all set. But the Coalition Partner Reform Party has been so careful about this thing, it has not always been mature. May I remind you of the Järvesuu boys' brigade, where the question is, "Paul, will you step into the Komsomol? 'The answer was, "Stand still. ' As I said, the Social Democrats have been supporters of the implementation of the administrative reform and, at this stage, we are generally also in favour of this model, so that the municipalities grow to this size, as is currently the case in the counties, with certain exceptions, of course. At the same time, we have considered it very important that the municipalities that are joining in this process, but I would also say that the voice of the communities that are being merged will remain sound and that the voice of the outlying regions would also be felt in a possible new large self-government. This is a separate issue that we will probably have to discuss in the near future when we are talking about the local government council election law and whether something needs to be changed there in order, for example, to have the votes of Meremäe, Misso and others in the largest possible Võru municipality. As a good example of our own initiative, it should be mentioned that our current colleague and then Mayor of Kuressaare, Hannes Hanso, proposed in Saaremaa in 2013 to create a municipality of Suur-Saaremaa. Our overall position is that such an ambitious initiative must certainly be supported. We understand very clearly that the proposed reform will not solve all the regional problems. Nowhere in the area can be expected that today's draft, which is still a little more than the face of administrative reform, will solve all regional policy problems. Far from it! In addition to the proposed reform, additional decisions on regional policy must also come. One important component that we certainly need to negotiate is the financing of local governments. In order to move forward, it is important to make changes to the financing model that would increase the revenue base for rural and small towns, giving the mergings a clear signal of the future benefits that can be taken into account. I believe that this is the point that should be very clearly fixed in the new budgetary strategy for the country, which is known to be the subject of May. In parallel, the responsibilities of the new municipalities should be analysed and whether there are areas where a new division should be made between the local government and the state. In this context, the topic of rural governments and their future has come through here for a moment. At the same time, it is reasonable to consider all options for public authorities to start to be located outside large cities, in regions. This should also be discussed in parallel. Therefore, the draft tabled today does not answer many questions. However, there is no reason to be upset that it came here as a 'questions' draft. We're under pressure, aren't we? We are not going to extend the electoral period for the sake of reform of local governments. We must make these decisions before 2017. If we look at the calendar and look at the strength that the government has, we will see that the government currently does not have much more internal resources to put into this bill. Dear Riigikogu! I think that when the laws on land reform and property reform were being prepared, the role of the Riigikogu was very great. The Riigikogu will also have a very busy and busy time until spring, summer break, if there is no way to say that the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp. It is clear that we have a very strong hope of giving the draft tabled today a very juicy content. I don't want to say anything more than I want our strength to work. I very much hope that if we leave here before Midsummer, we will have managed to solve this great task and that the reform of the municipality will have become much more content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U29	Kalle Laane on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U30	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U31	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U32	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! When he handed over the draft law on administrative reform, the Prime Minister mentioned that there have been disputes over the necessity and objectives of administrative reform for nearly 20 years. I would like to point out that the need for reform of local governments was also discussed at length in the twenties and thirties of the last century. As is done now, the scope of decision-making and the revenue base of local governments were discussed and ways were sought to strengthen the communication of residents with the local community. At that time, the reform was also achieved as a result of a debate of almost 20 years. The new Municipality Act was adopted in April 1937 and the City Act a year later. Following the adoption of these laws, a major self-government reform was carried out. The administrative reform was also due in particular to the fact that in the 1930s urbanisation accelerated in Estonia, the number of rural municipalities was steadily decreasing. While the population of cities increased by around 16% between the two censuses, the population of rural municipalities decreased by 3% at the same time. The State was interested in the reorganisation of the municipalities, in particular because there were too many of them and because it was difficult for the central authority to supervise them. The size of the municipalities was uneven, it was difficult for them to perform the same tasks, and some of the tasks were simply too much for smaller municipalities to carry out. As a result of the reform, it was hoped that the municipalities would be viable and able to fulfil all the obligations imposed on them, that the municipalities would be located in the rural municipalities and that the centres would be located in a place accessible to all residents. The villages were intended to be integrated into units where citizens could develop a sense of belonging. In place of the former 365 parishes, 248 parishes were formed as a result of the reform. The average number of inhabitants of the rural municipality increased from 2060 to 3010. A few decades have passed since the last municipal reform in the early 1990s, when national and self-government governance was distinguished and councils were restored as local democratic representative bodies. The organisation of local government, created as a result of the reform carried out in the early nineties, functions mainly to the present day, but life has gone on. Today's situation is significantly different than it was 20 years ago. The Estonian population is shrinking and therefore the number of working hands is decreasing. The population of rural areas has fallen particularly strongly. In part, this is why well-being varies considerably from one region to another. Less work hands create less benefits, however, all Estonian residents expect high-quality public services from the state and local government. It is not enough to move forward quietly and peacefully to deal with the problems; decisive steps need to be taken and the functioning of local governments reformed. President Lennart Meri has said: 'The home government is the capillary, the hair zone where oxygen is exchanged, or the nerve ending that tells the brain whether the body is freezing or sweating, hunger or thirst. If this bond does not work, the state will remain a stranger to the person because the person will not identify with the state. The country lives next to the person, the country is a nuisance, and so it stays pushed and pushed. " It is convenient to ensure that municipalities are viable and able to fulfil all their obligations. Due to the mergers so far, 213 municipalities have remained in Estonia, but nearly four-fifths of them are unable to manage their money on their own. The most general objective of the reform is to create the prerequisites for local authorities to be able to provide high-quality public services to the population by means of their own powers and resources. President Meri has also said that one of the features of small countries is that they have never been given as much time as the great powers have. That is also why this reform needs to be carried out now. We have a chance to do this together. However, as we have already heard from the previous speakers, there is also talk of point-picking and it is said that there is already opposition to all this today and that, if the boundaries of the rural municipality are changed, life will not improve. That is because life improves the ability to provide public services. Sometimes this reform uses words that there is no ambition for public authority. We are extremely controversial. Last Thursday, I was in Orissaar for a public debate on administrative reform and its implementation. In my opinion, it was funny that the word 'administrative reform' was not used mostly there, nor was it discussed whether it had to be carried out, but the word'state-manhood' was the most used. We're being statesman and we're doing something together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U33	Thank you. All the political groups have spoken and the item 'Prime Minister's political statement' has been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U34	Let's go to the next item. The inquiry has been made by Martin Repinski, Oudekki Loone, Jaanus Karilaid, Siret Kotka, Märt Sults, Olga Ivanova, Viktor Vassiliev, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Peeter Ernits, Erki Savisaar and Mikhail Korb. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U35	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, An inquiry is about apartment buildings that are left unheated. As we all know, we have heard about this repeatedly, there are a couple of houses in Kohtla-Järve where there is no central heating. People have had to figure out their own way of heating their own apartments all winter long so that they could at least survive the winter. This issue has been discussed at different levels in different contexts, but so far, as we know, the problem has not been resolved. I am not going to read the questions, because I think that the Prime Minister has certainly already met them. The only thing I want to say is that fortunately we will have the opportunity to vote in favour of a bill that will allow the owners of the apartment to enter into a direct contract with the heat supplier in the coming days. But unfortunately, the government's position is that it does not support this bill. The justification is that this change will certainly lead to an increase in the price of the service. It has been written that if this law is passed, all owners of the apartment should get separate entry points, etc. Actually, that's not true. According to the current system, for example, the building management company receives a joint account from the service provider, but can easily divide this amount by the area of the apartments among the residents. A similar system could also act and act as a supplier of heat. As I said, unfortunately, the government did not approve the draft. They say they're making some kind of task force. I don't know, maybe it's already been created. However, the fact is that it will soon be spring, if not to say that it is now spring, but people still live in apartments where there is no central heating at all and have to come up with something. We find it dangerous for people's lives. We all know cases of people having to come up with something to get warm in a house without heating, but unpleasant situations have arisen that have even resulted in people being killed. I thank you and expect answers from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U36	The inquiry has been submitted to Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will respond to your inquiry on 18 January. The first question: "Does the state not learn from the fire on the house of Laekvere, which occurred at the beginning of January 2015, when the same situation is repeated in Kohtla-Järve, where several apartment buildings have also been left without heating due to the presence of debtors? How should such situations be resolved? " The fire at the beginning of last year was extremely tragic. We must do everything we can to prevent such tragedies in the future. That's one. Secondly, it is clear that people who pay for the warm service properly should not suffer a cold apartment. Local authorities, as well as housing associations, have a key role to play in preventing and preventing this, with the task of detecting, assisting and providing solutions to people in distress. On 25 February, at the meeting of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir was asked to convene a working group in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and representatives of local authorities to review the adequacy of the current regulation and the need to supplement it. However, I would point out that the fact that the government is working to improve the legal environment does not deprive the local government of its responsibility to help specific people in distress. The second question: 'What instructions do you give to the state company Eesti Energia today if the family with children is in trouble with paying the electricity bill in cold weather? " In order to alleviate the situation of owners of apartments in distress, the district heating Act establishes a condition that heat supply may be interrupted from 1 October to 30 April only if at least 90 days have elapsed since receipt of the notification. This should be sufficient time to correct the deficiencies, to draw up a payment schedule and, where appropriate, to inform and receive assistance from local authorities. During this period, the heat consumer will in principle be able to identify, in cooperation with the local government, the cause of the debt and jointly find a solution to liquidate the debt. The same subject has been pointed out by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise in his reply letter to Yana Toom, saying that the 90-day notice period is in accordance with the Constitution and a reasonable time to liquidate the debt. Question 3: "What advice do you give to people who have paid their heating bills correctly but whose homes are cold because heating energy suppliers have turned off the taps? ' An apartment building connected to a district heating network is a comprehensive system. In general, an apartment building must have a building management company whose board is responsible for reacting quickly in such cases to initial debts and not allowing the amount of debt to increase over a longer period of time, which may lead to the separation of the building from the central heating system as a whole. I have already mentioned the possibilities of local governments to help both housing associations and individual people. Question 4: "How do you consider that people who have paid their bills correctly should not be collectively liable for debtors who are consistently indebted to suppliers? " In answer to the second question, I pointed out that the district heating law provided for a time period during which shortcomings could be remedied, a payment schedule drawn up, or information to the local government about people in distress. Apart from the above, the building management company is able to ask for legal assistance from the Association of Housing Associations. I repeat, it is absolutely necessary to be active, not to be ashamed to ask for help, to see a neighbour in distress and to cooperate with the local government and service provider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U38	There are questions for the Prime Minister. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U39	Thank you. Prime Minister! You said, yes, they don't have to suffer who pays. I totally agree with that, but I would still have liked to have heard more solutions. We know that Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has said that current laws are not enough to solve this problem and that laws need to be improved. It has been about two months since this inquiry was made. Can you tell me if the group you mentioned has already decided or done something? What, then, should be changed in law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U40	Thank you. I can give you this letter from Ülle Madis so you can see exactly what the Chancellor of Justice has written there. He emphasizes very clearly, just as I do, the role of the housing association and local government. I believe that you too should think about your possibilities, using your authority as a member of the Riigikogu, to convince your party-companies local government leaders to help people better. We know that these opportunities exist in the municipality, we know that the municipality is closer to the people, and we know that in this situation the municipality cannot reject its responsibility. It is my recommendation to you to exercise your authority and to have a conversation with your party-companies local government leaders so that they really take this issue very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U41	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Right now, people are in trouble. Some people did not pay, others were little initiative, and the local government did not do what you said it would have to do, not even us people ambassadors intervened using their authority, and Eesti Energia did not want to draw up charts or did not know how to do it or did not bother to do it. Absolutely everyone was guilty. But what did the Government of the Republic do? How did he protect the people in a situation where there were no other defenders? Is the aid of the Government of the Republic, i.e. the state, limited to what you have now shared with us with wise words? Is that all the help you've got?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U43	Thank you. As I described in the reply, it is the duty of the state to create such a legal environment so that people, in cooperation with local authorities whose responsibility cannot be assumed by the state as a whole, have sufficient time to overcome potential problems. Your partymate, Yana Toom, has questioned whether this deadline is long enough for 90 days to be sufficient. The Chancellor of Justice has also formed his position, who has said that the 90-day notice period is not unreasonablely short. He's given quite a few more explanations. I really suggest you look at the Chancellor of Justice's legal assessment. But I would like to stress once again that we have the opportunity to draw attention to the fact that there are many examples of people being left alone in a particular municipality. As citizens and delegates, we probably expect more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U44	There are more questions. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Unfortunately, in different regions, the prices per square metre of real estate are very different, partly due to this problem. If the debt incurred during the heating period exceeds the cost of the apartment property, then the problem begins to grow as a snowball. You spoke about the role of local governments and their responsibility to their inhabitants. I say that the opportunities of local governments are very different. Will the Government of the Republic agree to give a little more support to these regions through the Equalisation Fund or otherwise? I don't want to talk about real estate prices in Harjumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U46	So that was the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U47	Thank you. As you well know, the Equalisation Fund has its own clear components, which also take into account the structure of the population. For example, one component of the Equalisation Fund takes into account people of special need and people of different ages. So the Equalisation Fund already takes into account people's economic livelihoods. In addition, I would point out that, in order to ensure the livelihood of people, the local government has the possibility to pay income support from the state budget to people who do not have sufficient income. The state budget has had more of these resources every year than has actually been spent. Municipalities are well aware that since the beginning of this year, the rate by which state-funded income support can be paid to their people increased significantly. As we know, the limit on income support is the amount that will remain in the person's hands after the public utility payments have been made. It increased from EUR 90 to EUR 130 per family member. So, in fact, by means of an income support scheme alone, the municipality is able to help people who, for whatever reason, do not have sufficient income to cover utilities costs. I expect all municipalities to take this problem seriously and deal with people who need help to cope. From 1 January of this year, as has been said, the income support ceiling increased by almost 50%, which certainly improves the ability of municipalities to help these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U48	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U49	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Those people who talk about the subject we raised in our inquiry are of the opinion that the laws are limping. Believe me, all opportunities have already been used by local governments and no more. There's something that needs to be done in the law. My proposal is for the government to replace the sections that are currently regulating the present of these people, let's say. Does the government not want to assume this role in order to take the next step in law so that people really live in a warm home and the possibilities to pay income support are used and this support continues?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U50	Thank you. 12 years ago, when I became the head of the municipality in the Haaberst district of Tallinn, where about 40,000 people live, and these people are from very different social backgrounds, I had to deal with all kinds of problems. I never told people I couldn't help them because the law doesn't allow it, the mayor doesn't help, or my finger is sick. Never. As head of the local government, I was always looking for a way to help, not a way to blame someone else. This is the kind of attitude I expect from all the local government leaders. I think there are opportunities in Kohtla-Järve's budget, too, that if the mayor knows that there are real problems in some houses, he can contribute to the temporary payment of this debt, even from the city's reserve fund, if there really is no other source, and then systematically deal with the causes of the debts. Of course, situations vary greatly: debt may arise as a result of deliberate action by someone, or people may, indeed, rightly need the support of the municipality. However, in both cases the municipality is able to react specifically. So I don't understand those mayors who, before they think about how to help people, are looking for an article that would make it possible to blame the country. People expect the municipality to help. The country has created many opportunities for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U51	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U52	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! In fact, this is not a specific case which is currently under discussion here, and it is not in any way separate. These episodes, when heating or electricity is turned off, which has resulted in people being killed, have been a good number in Estonia over the years. Your answer gives the impression that all of this is a municipal problem and does not concern the country. But if it is a problem that is very often repeated over the years, do you not think that the state and local authorities should put their backs together and work together to find a solution so that people do not suffer or die? I don't think the state and the municipality are separate things. What do you think if the country tried to shoulder it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U53	Thank you. As I said, the state has created such a legal environment that it is obliged to give three months' notice before the energy supply could be disrupted at all in cold times. This is one of the important guarantees that the municipality will have sufficient time to deal with the problem. In order to analyse the adequacy of the legal space, as I have already said, we have put together a working group under the leadership of the Minister for Enterprise. I do not exclude that we will find ways to create an even better regulatory environment. In the past, we have helped municipalities who, for one reason or another, were in financial distress. Often, of course, they have had very objective and logical reasons which may not even be seen at present. In a hypothetical situation where some municipalities say that they simply do not have any chance of helping people financially, and they can really justify it, I do not rule out financial support for these municipalities. But in general, solutions are rather behind the low level of activity of the municipality. Of course, there are different situations. I don't want to generalise, but there are still quite a few examples that I, as a citizen, have thought that the municipality could have done more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U54	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! When I listen to you, I'm really confused. I hope I'm wrong, but the answer sounded like the government was merely making a list, who was guilty. Since I believe I am wrong, perhaps you are still putting forward the substantive proposals or thoughts you have considered, how can the government help you solve this problem? After all, we are not just talking about situations where neighbors owe a warm-up producer. We are also talking about empty apartments, if there are no neighbours, the municipality cannot grant support to anyone, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U56	Thank you. Indeed, you are wrong if you think that the government is looking for the guilty on this or any other matter. On the contrary, I described the roles that exist at different levels of power in Estonia, among other things, I described the role of the government as creating justice, and I also said that if some local governments really had such financial difficulties that they needed the support of the central government, there would be a fundamental opportunity to ask the government. This would not be a precedent either, since the government has previously supported several municipalities for objective reasons. However, I do think that local government leaders cannot hide in this matter just behind the sections of the law. First of all, you have to take advantage of all the opportunities they have, starting with the income support scheme and helping people, then you could use a little outside-the-frame thinking, see what opportunities there are, and even temporarily pay for this debt from the municipal reserve fund, to ensure that the room is warm. After that, it will be possible to analyse the situation further. If I were the mayor of Kohtla-Järve, I would approach this problem by finding a way to pay my debts first, then I would start looking for guilty people or troubles. In my opinion, the primary thing is to keep people's rooms warm. But I'm not the mayor of Kohtla-Järve. As a party associate of the mayor of Kohtla-Järve, you may be able to address him directly, and perhaps you may even have reason to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U57	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U58	Thank you. Prime Minister! As a former parent of your Haaberst district, you probably do not realize that property prices in Haaberst district in Tallinn and Kohtla-Järve are significantly different. Kohtla-Järve is a city with a declining population. The root of the problem is that houses are emptying and people who have left their apartment no longer consider it worth selling. They have left Kohtla-Järve and probably have also left Estonia. These are abandoned apartments whose bills are not paid. Apartment associations, who have also tried to pay for these apartments, are in difficulty. The government can't take these houses to heat them up by itself. Do you have any idea what to do with massively abandoned apartments that are hard to find owners so that the housing company can't handle it? Is there a key to helping? This key could be more than just letting the government handle it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U59	Thank you. I referred to the fact that Liisa Oviir, together with the Ministry of Justice, has been tasked with analysing whether it is possible to improve the legal space on this issue. At the same time, it is very difficult to present generalisations of all cases from a limited point of view. However, if someone maliciously abandons their property, it is possible to apply in Estonia, as a rule of law, for that person to carry out his duties. I understand that in your example, the question was not that a person could not pay the bills, but rather that a person would simply give it up. In that case, you need to collect money from that person. In this case, an agreement must be reached on the spot whether it will give up its real estate for the benefit of the municipality, for example, or whether it will indeed be called upon to pay off its debts. After all, the obligation vis-à-vis him remains with the private legal entity, whoever is currently providing him with a heating or electricity service. In any case, this company will have the opportunity to collect the money correctly if we assume that a person does not have a direct financial problem through the courts. But once again, we know that situations are different. There are also people, including those in Kohtla-Järve, who have not paid their bills because their monthly incomes have not been enough. In this case, it is possible for the local government to help. That is why we have a income support scheme that provides for how much money you have to keep in your hands after you have covered your utilities. The assumption is that utilities will be covered, and then there will be a fixed amount per family member (currently 130 euros, 90 euros until the end of the previous year) that can be used for other significant expenses. But yes, in answering your question directly, I say that, under the direction of the Minister for Enterprise, concrete examples will be carefully looked at and ways to improve the legal space will be sought.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U60	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U61	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! We heard from your answers that you would be a great mayor of Kohtla-Järve. I have a request for you. Maybe you can talk about the position of Prime Minister about what you should do? One thing the state could do for these people is to reduce VAT on heat energy. Heat energy is not a luxury commodity in our country; it is something on which we all depend. The Centre Party has consistently offered that we could minimise it. Then there would be no problems. Has the government considered this possibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U62	Thank you. When you listened to this example of your good party partner Kadri Simson, you must have noticed that there are situations where it is not about the price of heat energy, but about people leaving their apartment behind and no longer interested in paying for utilities. For these cases, when people are struggling to cope, Estonia has a system of income support that covers the actual costs together with VAT and all other taxes in force in Estonia. If you take it easy, you'll find that the real cause of the problem in both examples lies elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U63	No further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U64	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Since you submitted an essay on 'If I was mayor of Kohtla-Järve', if you will allow me, I will present an essay on 'If I were Prime Minister'. If I were the Prime Minister, I would be embarrassed to stand before the Riigikogu today and say such a thing. Indeed, you blamed everyone: the problems are caused by the local government and the housing associations, whoever, but certainly not the government, the government has had to do nothing. Maybe you've forgotten what's going on right now in Ida-Virumaa and what's going on there? We all remember that last year Kristen Michal visited Ida-Virumaa and said that there were 4,000 new jobs there right away, and then everything was great. But, in fact, as you know, the Kohtla-Järve City Government only became aware at the turn of the year, after the annual budget was approved, that the VKG would mobilise about 500 more people. So Kristen Michal's prognosis wasn't very precise, to put it mildly. Just recently, I read an article in which he said that there were plans to create 2,500 jobs in the coming years. So he's gotten a little more pessimistic already. But that's it. I mean, the life of Kohtla-Järve City Hall isn't like a flower right now. As far as these housing associations are concerned, some of them cannot even dream of going to court, bringing an action or anything like that, because they simply do not have any money. Probably the largest house with no heating now is located at 23 Vahtra. The total debt of this house to VKG amounts to about EUR 5500. When I went to that house, I saw the owner of the apartment, who took it out of his apartment, put it in his car, and took it away. Its debt to the building management company is about 8000 euros. So if only he would pay off his debt, then everyone else could live as before, it would not be a problem that the district heating system was switched off. In fact, I would like to ask you not to forget that people living in these houses, but these houses can no longer be used at all. It's all over the systems, everything needs to be replaced, but it's not possible, it's easier to build the same new house. Really, those apartments over there don't really cost anything. So what you said was that the housing company should act quickly and do something about it is not very possible. I think that the country would rather have a very simple opportunity to help here if it had any desire, because this problem is marginal. When we talk about debts, they all amount to only EUR 10,000 in Kohtla-Järve at the moment. To be honest, I am very embarrassed that there is such a situation in the country of the European Union, and the government has been aware of this for a long time, several months, but nothing is happening. Only other people are accused, and nothing else is going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U65	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U66	When we are talking about this topic, we need to look very firmly at the difference between the district of Haaberst and Kohtla-Järve. I remember those days when I was working at the city hall that when there were a lot of papers at the municipal meetings that were related to the sale of apartments, believe me, some three-room apartments cost $150. This means that the apartment market no longer exists in Kohtla-Järve. The Prime Minister said that it would be necessary to make full use of the benefits scheme. That's what I'm gonna ask you. Let's say people on the fourth and fifth floors live on the first and second floors, but people on the third floor have gone far and far, perhaps working in Finland or Sweden. If they no longer live there, I wonder what we can talk about in terms of income support for these people. But if we talk about what housing associations owe Viru Chemistry Group, and when we talk about Kohtla-Järve, then, frankly, because of the so-called third-floor apartments where no one lives, the debt will gradually amount to EUR 8000. The Kohtla-Järve houses are encouraged to start looking for help from the reserve fund, but it is not, frankly, because 38000 people currently living in Kohtla-Järve have 14500 pensioners, there are about 14,000 taxpayers, and they are less and less every year. Viru Chemistry Group is closed, Nitrofert and other companies that could have brought money into the city budget through personal income tax are closed. Let's be honest, the reserve fund has been completely zeroed out. Once again, I stress what I asked the Prime Minister that the greatest problem is the law. We have done everything here to ensure that apartments do not have these contracts, and all contracts are legally concluded directly with the building management company. If two or three people leave this big collective farm, the debt will come next year. Once again, I stress that there is a problem with the law now, and this concern is not only in Kohtla-Järve, there are such concerns throughout Estonia. We need to think about how to solve this problem. In 2011, we took such a step that 90 days must be told in advance when the boiler is turned off in the house, and it must not be turned off from 1 October to 1 April. We must also take the second step. I am very sorry that the government is not looking at this from a pragmatic point of view, but from the point of view that local governments and housing associations should work together. It is a pity that the government is looking at this problem from the point of view that others have made mistakes, but they have done everything they can to make people feel good. I don't think that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U67	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U68	Mr. President! Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This theme is not really Kohtla-Järve's one house theme, this theme is all-Estonian. I can give you an example of my municipality of residence, an amphibian, as I am, by one foot, a rural resident. There are three apartment buildings in my neighboring village, one of which is home to three or four people who have built buržuika in an apartment with a pipe outside the window. With the help of these burungpuns, they warm themselves up in the winter. There are a number of floors in the parish centre that are partially or completely empty. Vald's good. As the school is near, a common boiler house has been built, which still keeps all these buildings warm on the basis of local firewood, so that the pipes have not yet been frozen. But if the people's departure continues and it continues, then it is only a matter of time before another house is left behind, the heating system is shut down, the heating system is recreated and smashed. When we walk around Estonia, we see a similar picture everywhere. To say that this is a problem for local authorities is a very simplified approach. This is not a local government problem. No local government can handle all these dozens of houses. It's just impossible. These centers, villages, have once built apartment buildings where people worked on a large farm or in a small factory or company. Here we need to consider, both legislative and practically, whether we should not gather people into a single house, build a boiler house that heats this house, and leave the other houses empty and for some time demolish them. This is actually what should be dealt with. Solving the problems of individual debtors is, of course, not a national issue, but it is a national issue to be aware of the problem that exists throughout Estonia and to deal with it. In this sense, I asked my question earlier, whether the country could not be shoulderd. I repeat that, Prime Minister. There is a need to think more broadly here. The state must come to the aid of local authorities and not only of local authorities, but above all of the people. Some sort of solution needs to be found, because the same way can't go on. Believe me, sooner or later, electricity will be cut off somewhere again, people will start using candles and something will burn. Let's not forget that so many of the people who live in these houses have become antisocial. They have lost their jobs, they have lost their perspective, they no longer have any purpose, their lives do not have the right content. By their side, however, families with perfectly normal children can live. If the a socialist burns the house, the victims may not only be those who have their own souls, of course, but the victims may be decent people who deserve nothing to lose their property, their health, or their lives. So, with my speech, I want to knock on the conscience of all of you once again that this cannot be the case. We keep saying that there are so few of us and that every single person is important. So let's think about how we can prove to all these people that they are not redundant and that their concerns matter to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U69	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U70	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, After the speech that just sounded here, I had a desire to say a few words. In Europe, it is now being said that there are people whose houses have been bombed. They don't have a place to live, they can't do it, they don't have a job, they turn into a socialist, they can't raise children. They need to be taken and concentrated somewhere where all of this would be insured. At the moment, I listened to Mr Helmet, and suddenly I realized that this logical line is exactly the same: the house has been lost, there is no job, you are becoming an antisocialist, there are health problems. But there's a war in Syria, we don't have a war. By considering how there can be parallels here at all, and by looking at the Prime Minister, who is the heir to this Prime Minister, who promised us that soon and soon we will be among the five richest and most successful European countries, it is clear that these things simply do not match. I don't understand! As the previous speaker also mentioned festive speeches, which we heard very, very much in February, another constructive proposal. Why couldn't the next president's reception, no matter who the next president is, go somewhere where these abandoned houses are? It could be done there, and it could be shown that there are places like this, and we care about these people, at least we don't forget them. I don't know, somehow too close a parallel was created between what's going on elsewhere and what's going on with us. Once again, there is a war in Syria that can explain these things. How to explain them in Estonia is incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U71	Members of the Riigikogu have no more wishes for words. The Prime Minister doesn't have one either. Is it? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U72	The following question is made by Andres Herkel, Kadri Simson, Külliki Kübarsepp, Monika Haukanõm, Martin Helme, Artur Talvik, Krista Aru, Ain Lutsepp, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Must, Anneli Ott, Valeri Korb, Mart Helme, Jaak Madison, Henn Põlluaas, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Sild and Uno Kaskpeit. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U73	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, As the President of the Riigikogu has already said, 20 members of the Riigikogu who belong to the Centre Party, the Free Party and the EKRE Group have signed the inquiry. The inquiry was handed down on 17 February. It was a time when negative news came about the big redundancies planned and that Estonia's economic growth was much more modest than expected, and because of modest economic growth there is not much hope for new jobs that would compensate for lost jobs, such as PKC in Estonia or Viru Chemistry Group. At the same time, the Prime Minister expressed very optimistic views, claiming that the incomes of Estonian residents have increased and the purchasing power has improved, and unemployment is no longer very high. The Prime Minister claimed that the foundation of the Estonian economy is strong and our vulnerability has diminished. As much as we would like to agree to this, we are in a situation where large redundancies in Ida-Virumaa are just ahead of the notices, but people are still at work, they have not signed up at the unemployment fund offices, but there are already 6540 registered unemployed. To continue with the previous question, I say that the situation where unemployment is much higher in Ida-Viru County than in the rest of Estonia has its consequences. The revenue base of the cities is decreasing, especially in Kohtla-Järve and Kiviõli. The same housing companies are also hit when some members find themselves in a situation where they can no longer bear their responsibilities. That is why we asked the Prime Minister seven questions. I'm not going to read them out, they're from different areas, but above all they're from concern that if there are new jobs, they tend to come to Tallinn and Harjumaa. Ida-Viru County as a critical area definitely needs a special approach. One government outing session is not enough; a clear programme, political initiatives and constant attention are needed. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the Prime Minister's meaningful answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U74	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will respond to your inquiry on 17 February on jobs and large-scale redundancies. The first question: 'You comforted the people of Ida-Virumaa after the Viru Chemistry Group's concentration, that there are a total of 9,000 vacant jobs across Estonia. What will be the benefit of these jobs if, as a result, a person still has to leave his or her home and thus becomes more peripheral? ' First of all, the state actively contributes, through EAS and several other structures, to attracting investors to Ida-Viru County and thus creating new jobs there. The development of industrial areas of Ida-Virumaa Foundation is also a powerful extension. In addition to the expansion of Narva Industrial Park, industrial parks in Jõhvi, Kohtla-Järve and Kiviõli are being developed, and several private investors have also talked to me about the desire to create jobs in Ida-Virumaa. So many things have been done that will improve employment in Ida-Viru County. The government's decision to allow the burning of low-value timber at the Eesti Energia Auvere power plant in the framework of statistical trade is also a potentially hundreds of jobs-creating effect in the region. If you look at your question from the point of view of regional development and people's way of living, it must be said that, of course, it is better and more convenient for a person who has lost his job to find a new job as close to home as possible. However, geographical mobility offers people the opportunity to find suitable jobs if they lose their jobs. This is an opportunity that should not be left out with too easy a hand. Let it be said that the state even provides financial support when a person goes to work far away from where he or she resides. People who have been unemployed for more than six months and start working further away from their home place will receive mobility benefit from the unemployment fund. It must also be said that there are several areas in Estonia where there is a screaming shortage of hands and brains. I cannot say no to Viljandi companies, for example, or to the leaders of Viljandi city, who have jointly undertaken trips to Ida-Virumaa to offer jobs there that exist in Viljandi county. Once again, this is an opportunity. Rather, people have more than fewer choices. On 3 March, a meeting of the Government of the Republic took place in Narva. There we approved a number of new support measures that directly affect job creation in Ida-Virumaa. The first of these is the renewed wage subsidy. If more than 20 jobs are created for people who have been unemployed for six months or more, the unemployment fund will pay for a large part of their salary. This may seem a very generous measure, but we have a similar experience from a time of crisis. At the time, we paid a very limited wage subsidy at a relatively low limit, but it worked. Across Estonia, a total of 17,000 people received this support. When I was the Minister for Social Affairs shortly after the crisis, I was able to take stock and I have to admit that I was positively surprised at how effective the wage subsidy had worked. Now we have decided to create wage support on a much larger scale only for Ida-Virumaa, where, unfortunately, unemployment has been higher for several years than on average in Estonia. It is true that unemployment in Ida-Virumaa has decreased significantly in the last five to six years, just like in Estonia as a whole. There are even indicators that have improved faster in Ida-Virumaa than in Estonia as a whole. But it is fair to say that, just as unemployment in Ida-Virumaa was almost half as high as in Estonia on average in times of crisis, it is exactly the same now that unemployment in Estonia has returned to the level of booming, that unemployment in Ida-Virumaa is indeed higher. At the same government meeting, we decided to apply for funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), which will hopefully add more to the unemployment fund so that we could specifically support the people of Ida-Virumaa. The second question: 'How do you assess the response of the unemployment fund and other relevant authorities to redundancies, which advisory and training activities and other aid measures have been launched? ' The Viru Chemistry Group's plan, published in January 2016, to bring together more than 500 employees (seriously, after consulting the company, the number significantly decreased) reacted immediately. The next morning, at 8:00 a.m., I got the first review from the district manager of the unemployment fund. About half an hour later, I spoke to the head of the unemployment fund and the Minister for Health and Labour and I can confirm that the reaction was immediate. The aid has been granted both to the company and to workers most likely to be made redundant. Among other things, when there was initial information on redundancy, career guidance and job search workshops in the company, information day was organised immediately for immediate managers of workers made redundant. The job fairs of the unemployment fund were used to exchange information about the job-releasing workforce and to identify the professional skills of all employees. This is, of course, an important input for planning services and finding new jobs. As in Ida-Virumaa, the unemployment fund offered immediate help in responding to the PKC Group's redundancies. The company organized information classes, job search workshops, personalised counselling and plans to organise at least two job fairs in cooperation with the company. So the actions have started. In the course of answering the following questions, I can tell you more about the hopes of people being made redundant to find a new job. The third question: 'The Minister of Business, Liisa Oviir, pointed out that the change in the tax environment is at issue in the government. When drafting the Green Paper on Industrial Policy, tax changes have been proposed, which should help to boost the economy and increase the competitiveness of companies operating in Estonia. What specific tax changes is the government planning to implement this year from the Green Paper on Industrial Policy? ' The aim of the Green Paper on Industrial Policy is to analyse measures that contribute to the international competitiveness of Estonian industry. Each amendment shall be preceded by an in-depth analysis. The proposals for measures and the precise timetable for impact analyses have allowed the Minister for Enterprise to propose to the Cabinet this spring. If we look at the taxation of the business environment in Estonia, we can say that the Estonian tax environment as a whole is attractive. At the same time, I am convinced that there is a need to cut labour taxes, and with this the government will certainly continue. In addition, the government has been discussing the possibility of reducing taxes or other charges on very high energy intensity production, i.e. very, very large energy consumers. Here, too, several ministers have been given tasks and deadlines to come up with concrete analyses. At the same time, it must be understood that redundancies in Ida-Virumaa and Harjumaa are far from being caused by the tax environment. On the contrary, PKC takes production to a country where the tax environment is less favourable than that of Estonia and where the price of energy is also higher than in Estonia. The reason is very simple: our wages have increased very quickly in recent years and in Estonia, according to this company, it is not possible to continue production with cheap labour. I recommend that you read the very direct assessment of the Estonian economy by Robert Kit, the head of Arterist Swedbank. He said that we are coming to the next stage of development and production with very cheap labour cannot be competitive in Estonia if we want our people's wages to increase. We cannot be a country with high wages and cheap labour at the same time. Question 4: 'As one concrete proposal, the Green Paper on industrial policy sets out the differentiation of electricity price components in terms of consumption. When is the government going to implement this proposal? ' Last week, the Minister of Enterprise presented to the government a preliminary analysis of the differentiation of electricity price components for large consumers. We took note of this information and instructed the Minister for Enterprise, in cooperation with the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, to carry out an in-depth impact analysis in order to shape concrete proposals. It is important to know that apart from the price of electricity that comes from the stock exchange and which the government has little opportunity to shape, the highest price component is network charges, then renewable energy charges and the smallest component is excise duty. Question 5: "What do you think will be the chances for PKC and VKG workers to find jobs at least with current levels of pay in their regions? ' Here it must be taken into account that the location of these two companies and the skills of the redundant workers are quite different. On the basis of current information, the PKC plans to gradually mobilise 542 employees over the course of the year until the next spring. The whole workforce is not released at the same time, which significantly improves people's chances of finding suitable jobs. We know that the unemployment rate in Harju County is one of the lowest in Estonia. At the same time, there is a huge shortage of labour in Harju County, and several companies have already expressed their wish to hire a workforce from PKC. At the beginning of March, the unemployment rate recorded in Harjumaa was 3.6%. I have studied economics at the University of Tartu and I remember from Professor Eamets' lecture that unemployment below 5% is generally considered a zero job shortage. In fact, unemployment can never fall to zero, but in a situation where unemployment is less than 5%, and in Harjumaa this is indeed the case, experts estimate that there is a shortage of labour. The average gross wage of PKC is close to the average of Estonia, i.e. below the average of the electronics industry and below the average wage level of Harjumaa. PKC and the unemployment fund have been contacted and several companies, including manufacturing companies, have already been interested in the workers being released. I believe that the chances of people working at PKC finding a job with comparable levels of pay in the near future are very high. Viru Chemistry Group is made up of specialists with predominantly high specific technical qualifications, who are in high demand in Estonia. At the same time, the VKG's concentration will take place within a relatively short period of time according to current information and unemployment will be high in the region as a whole. But I have talked to the heads of local educational institutions and the head of the unemployment fund, and I can say that there are many ways in which the state and businesses together can help to ensure that the chances of finding a viable new job are high enough. I'm sorry! I'm running out of time, and I'm missing two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U76	Thank you, Prime Minister. Since there are many questions for you, you can also calmly reject the answer to the sixth and seventh questions by answering the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! You said there was nothing wrong with unemployment as well as there is not, because that is 3.5%. But the same man who lured PKC to Keila in his time has said that the background of all this is the Estonian hunchback tax system. After an experiment in 2000, when the company's income tax was abolished and other taxes (i.e. labour taxes, excise duties and VAT) started to be raised, there have been others. Do you have any estimates of how many companies still leave Estonia within this year's number, allegedly because of the hunchback tax system?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U78	Thank you. There's not a single fact that confirms that person's story. PKC leaders have clearly stated that their departure is not due to the tax system. By the way, your party has wanted to move in a different direction, i.e. raise taxes on labour. Recently, the Riigikogu had in its proceedings a draft which would have established a sufficiently high level of taxation near the average salary. But there's still more to it than that. Hopefully, no more such drafts will be submitted anytime soon. If we look at where PKC production is going, we'll see that Lithuania, among other things. Only recently, Eesti Pank, whose impartiality has no reason to doubt, carried out an analysis which showed that in Estonia, when it comes to taxation of labour, there is a tax wedge that has to be paid on labour costs at wage levels comparable to PKC wage levels, considerably lower than in Lithuania and, by the way, lower than in Latvia. So what's the difference? The answer is very simple, the difference must be that Lithuania has a circular of 30% lower wages. Let us ask ourselves whether we want such a competitive advantage, whether we want to be a country with cheap labour. I'm saying I don't. On the contrary, we want wages to grow and people to be rewarded. If we take the starting point, we will see that there really are certain sectors that are very difficult to cope with in Estonia. In general, there are two options: whether to invest in technology and knowledge and increase the added value of the company in Estonia, which makes it possible to pay a higher salary and go along with the overall wage level, or to move to a country where the wage level is lower. I have publicly said that Ida-Viru County is the highest waged region in Estonia, but for example, wage levels are much lower in Ida-Virumaa. Why can't companies instead of moving to Lithuania or somewhere else consider moving production from Harjumaa to Ida-Virumaa instead? Currently, Ida-Viru County is certainly competitive in terms of wage levels. In answer to your seventh question, I would have given a number of examples of high-value-added jobs that have recently been created or allowed to be created in Estonia. I'll give you some examples, if you'll excuse me. In February, last month, the International Finance Company opened its doors to the Financial Solutions IT Development and Innovation Centre, which plans to employ a hundred people. Last December, the Tallinn Development Centre was introduced by the global IT company HCL Technologies, which starts with hiring a hundred people. In October last year, Nordea Pank announced that this spring it will establish an entire group support service unit in Estonia, where hundreds of jobs are also expected. Hundreds of jobs are also being created by the big Nordic group ABB. Kühne + Nagel, the world's second largest logistics company, has brought almost all IT development activities to Tallinn and is already employing 270 people and is planning to expand. TransferWise created 300 jobs in Estonia last year alone, more than that. And so on and so forth. All these jobs are predominantly above the average wage in Estonia, which means that they contribute to raising wage levels in Estonia. This also allows pensions and social benefits to rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U79	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U80	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You mentioned in your presentation that burning low-value timber at Auvere Station will create hundreds of new jobs. I thought for several minutes, and I couldn't figure out what jobs they could be. Maybe you'll tell me what hundreds of jobs they're gonna be and how long these places are gonna be needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U81	Thank you. I'm trying to explain. I've grown up on Mount Bloomberg, but I still realize that to burn wood, this wood must first be moved from the forest to the burning place. That's where the number of jobs is hiding. In fact, in the development plan for Estonian forestry, I think the figures are incredible. If 1 million cubic metres of low-value timber is required to produce one terawatt-hour of energy, then according to the forestry development plan, it is the number of people who have to go to the forest to produce one terawatt-hour of energy in the sense of the transfer, of course, not all have to physically go to the forest, or the number of jobs in a few thousand. I'd try to be more conservative. It would be very good if this figure really turned out to be this high, but being a little more conservative, I say that hundreds of jobs should definitely be created by burning wood, that is absolutely clear. If we think logically, we realize that producing low-value wood may not be rational from a very distant point of view. All the more so since the State Forest Management Centre alone has numerous untapped opportunities to cut timber in the Ida-Virumaa region, and I believe that many private forest owners have similar opportunities. We know that there are plenty of forests in the Ida-Virumaa region, as there are, of course, many other Estonian regions. By claiming that trade in statistics helps create hundreds of jobs, I rely primarily on the opinion of forest experts. In the cabinet, I questioned several times, and I was assured that there are really such awe - inspiring figures here. I have also talked to the headmaster of the vocational school in Jõhvi and studied the possibilities of converting people into managers of forestry machines. Certain forestry people in Jõhvi are already being taught, but they have basically the capacity, in cooperation with, for example, the Luua Forestry School, to improve curricula and quickly contribute to people's retraining. With good will, these people can also be found on the ground in Ida-Viru County. Of course, it needs work, it doesn't all happen overnight, but I think the potential is great.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U82	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U83	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I think we live in different countries. As far as I know, the volume of foreign investment is currently at its lowest level for 20 years and the state reserves have fallen by over EUR 300 million over a year. Growth was 1% last year. You, on the other hand, are talking about new businesses and new jobs. You read the jobs here, but last year, 300 dairy farms were shut down. Multiply by 300, that's 3,000 jobs in agriculture alone. It's all a competition issue. In an unhealthy competitive situation, it cannot be managed. For example, the excise duty on diesel, which you raised this year, and the next and the next year, you plan to increase further, puts our transport companies in a very unhealthy competitive position. We have an electricity excise duty of EUR 4.47; in Latvia and Lithuania this excise duty is EUR 1. If we look at all this together, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U84	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U85	...that's the reason. When will the government start improving the competitiveness of companies and reviewing excise policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U86	Thank you. I admire your ability to lengthen the question to one minute with so many mistakes. But since all of them cannot be refuted within the short time allowed to reply, I will focus on just a few. In particular, I bring out a grave error concerning the reduction of the national reserves. You shouldn't believe everything you read in the paper. For example, I read today, I don't know why, the capital paper. I read that in the future, people in the countryside will be left without medical attention. The percentage of trueness of this long story, published on several pages, is exactly zero. It was not based on any facts, nor were the assessments adequate. So much for reading the paper. I understand that you, too, have heard through the paper as if the national reserves had decreased, but you have overlooked an important fact. It was just financial management. At the end of last year, a large number of disbursements, mainly of UCITS, were made and will be returned to the state budget at the beginning of this year. So we're talking about a reduction in reserves, to put it mildly, exaggerated. If we look at Estonia's fiscal policy more broadly, I am pleased to announce that the two years that I have been Prime Minister have been in surplus in both 2014 and 2015. If we think logically, we realise that the surplus budget increases rather than reduces reserves. As far as the competitiveness of Estonian companies is concerned, one factor of the extremely low price of oil cannot be forgotten here. This is certainly not controlled by the Estonian Government, but we reacted as quickly as possible and lowered the pollution and environmental charges of companies that depend on the price of oil to ensure that these companies could continue to operate. This was a very difficult debate, because the impact of this decision is tens of millions of euros a year, but we know that it will significantly increase the chance for oil industry and oil shale companies in general to survive. This is one very concrete example when the government has significantly improved the competitiveness of Estonian companies. I can give you a number of other examples. The reduction of labour taxes will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the competitiveness of companies, just as the number of tax frauds in Estonia has become significantly lower than in several of our neighbouring countries. The more honest the tax environment, the better the competitiveness of all honest businesses. A number of companies have also stressed this very gratefully. These steps could be listed for a long time. I think that the government must look for new ways to make the business environment even more attractive. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has initiated a programme to reduce red tape, the Minister for Enterprise has a number of proposals, the Minister for Justice made a number of proposals last week, etc. All of this requires consistent analysis. If we find proposals that really improve the business environment, we will not hesitate to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U87	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U88	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I think the capital pointed out the right problems, though. Speaking of redundancies, the government has demanded that there be many redundancies in hospitals, both in the Northern Estonia Regional Hospital and in the University of Tartu Hospital, there must be 80.85 people. General hospitals also need to pull together, as the number of specialized medical professions is reduced to eight. A lot of doctors leave because they don't want to work part-time. If we look at the availability of treatment in the general hospital of the place of residence, it will indeed deteriorate. It hasn't even been denied by the minister. How can we cope with this shrinking medical care? Our people are ageing and the number of healthy years has decreased since 2009, and redundancies are taking place.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U89	Thank you. First of all, I stress that, as far as I am aware, no hospital has received a task from the Minister for Health and Labour to bring together health personnel. The Northern Estonian Regional Hospital also said that, given that the number of working-age residents in Estonia is decreasing, they are really able to cope with the task of using support staff more effectively in the future. In Estonia as a whole, there is no plan to pull out hospitals, unlike what your party partner Peter Mardna claimed in Capital. I'm saying that his claims are very malicious, and that's because they can't be based on any facts. Moreover, the previous and even previous government already made important decisions on how to ensure the sustainability of general hospitals, and they are still in force. The sustainability of general hospitals across Estonia is only possible if major hospitals, competence centres North-Estonian Regional Hospital and the University of Tartu Hospital take responsibility for providing services in the general hospital, so that the receptions of specialised doctors are guaranteed in each county. I am pleased to say that this reform has already been completed in the first regions and that the first progress is to be shown. For example, a few years ago the University of Tartu Hospital seduced the South-Estonian Hospital (this is the hospital located near Võru). In my opinion, this has been a success. The first networking has also taken place in Northern Estonia. This has significantly improved cooperation between hospitals and helped to ensure that specialised medical care is available where the county hospital or general hospital is located. There's one other thing I think of you than the esteemed doctor in your party. He stated that the market economy had no place in health care, bearing on its breast the logo of a private health company. I think it's the other way around. If we want the provision of medical care to be sustainable in 10 and 50 years' time given the possibilities of the Estonian state, then we should not kill the private initiative. The same doctor himself works in a private company and should be able to make more freely choices in which institution he wishes to take good care of his health. I have some other suggestions, by the way. I have, for example, a proposal on the sustainability of health care in Tallinn, which I have discussed with the head of your party. I see that there is a great deal to win from the cooperation of two hospitals belonging to Tallinn or established in Tallinn. I think that in Tallinn too, which is in any case one of the most important centres of Estonian medicine here, there is no question at all, it is possible to improve the organisation of health care even further. We should be proud in Estonia of the good work done by our doctors and nurses and other hospital workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U90	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U91	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Prime Minister! You mentioned earlier that you had a conversation with investors, and one or the other of them has promised to come here. I don't know, maybe you're a poor salesman, but the same statistics from Eesti Pank that you praised show quite clearly that, for ten years in a row, we have had a decline in foreign investment. In the third quarter of last year, foreign capital was a record outflow from Estonia throughout the period of independence. This means that not only does foreign capital come here less and less, but it goes away too. At the same time, there is another clear trend in exports. This is, in my opinion, a structural problem. You were talking about TransferWise. I thought it was a little strange to put it in the context of the Ida-Viru miners. We don't believe that Ida-Viru miners can be retrained as IT specialists. What, though, is the solution for people who are otherwise qualified? I understand the unemployment fund is re-training them, but they're not being trained as IT specialists, are they?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U92	Thank you. That, too, should not be ruled out. There is no point in stereotypically approaching and saying that if a person has worked in one field so far, the door in another area should necessarily be closed to him. It is true, of course, that specifically in Ida-Virumaa there is potential especially for people who operate machines. Those who are unemployed in Ida-Virumaa are not, by the way, just miners when looking at the skills of these people. We're starting to generalise here, which isn't really good. The unemployment fund deals with people on an individual basis there. But if you try to generalise as little as possible, it can be said that it is certainly the easiest way to convert drivers into drivers of different machines. In Ida-Virumaa, for example, there is an industrial company called Fortaco, whose yard, with the agreement of the government and private companies, maybe it is not even appropriate to call them private entrepreneurs; rather, it is a private initiative, it is not an entrepreneurial activity, it is also a theatre building. There are also plans to create hundreds of new jobs in this same company on the territory of the old Baltijets factory. These jobs are such that it should be possible to find employees in Ida-Viru County. But, by the way, you shouldn't underestimate IT education. I have talked to people at the Vocational Education Centre in Ida-Virumaa, for example. So what do they teach these people? The Vocational Education Centre in Ida-Virumaa does not only teach young people, but also teaches many people who have lost their jobs, and there are plenty of people who are taught information technology. One of the things that, of course, is best taught in Ida-Virumaa and that is, let's say, the most cost-effective guarantee of finding a job is the Estonian language. In some places, there are even queues for Estonian language courses. Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, has received an assignment from the government to find ways to provide additional funding and find additional teachers in order to intensify Estonian language learning in Ida-Virumaa. By the way, demand is now greater in Ida-Virumaa than the state can satisfy. It is even embarrassing to say this, because learning Estonian should not be a luxury in any region of Estonia. I have really been in contact with a lot of foreign investors. UPM-Kymmene wants to create dozens of new jobs near Otepää, an investment in tens of millions of euros. Kohila Vineer makes important investments. There are dozens and dozens of examples. There are quite a few entrepreneurs who say that there is a very good business environment and tax system in Estonia. But the increasing concern is that we see a small but very noisy group in Estonian society, which encourages intolerance. I really hope that you will think about this and spread it in the odinian Facebook group, where I believe you have been actively involved. Perhaps in order for the Estonian economy to succeed in the future, it would be practical not to incite anger.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U93	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U94	Thank you to the manager. Good Prime Minister! In 2007, Haapsalu had 5550 taxpayers, in 2015 4600. In that time, almost a thousand taxpayers were reduced. The Reform Party likes to say that the reason for this is weak or inevitable management of local government. Maybe the government should also do one of the trips to the Haapsalu Council Hall and talk about the missing regional policy, what would help create jobs? The loss of jobs outside Harjumaa is a very long-term problem. But what doesn't exist is regional policy. You went to Narva with maybe a little fear and safety that people would come to the streets, but don't you have a sense of danger that Läänemaa might also be showing more protests because the government doesn't have a job creation policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U95	Thank you. The day after the government meeting in Narva, actually the same night of the day, I drove to Haapsalu. There I communicated with local entrepreneurs, local government leaders and school youths. We have also talked about very specific projects that are to be carried out in Haapsalu. One of the most remarkable is definitely a server park that is being set up in Haapsalu, which can potentially create a huge number of jobs. But Haapsalu differs from other places because there is a very intense pendulum migration. Compared to some other places, a significantly larger number of people travel there to work in Tallinn every day. This concerns not only Haapsalu, but the wider Läänemaa. I'm sure you know that. You, too, if I am not mistaken, went into the statistical calculation in 2007 as a resident of Haapsalu. If you are now paying taxes on your income to Haapsalu, I do not know whether or not this is your job in Haapsalu, but hopefully you will contribute to the local life. But, yes, very many people go to work in Haapsalu in Tallinn and it is therefore perfectly understandable why Haapsalu's railway is so important for the people of Haapsalu. I would even say that if so many people did not travel from Haapsalu every day to work in Tallinn, the construction of the Haapsalu railway would be totally unrealistic. Thanks to the fact that there is so much pendulum migration, this railway is, in a sense, realistic. If the advantages and disadvantages are balanced, this project is not unrealistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U96	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu today listened to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance who spoke about the economic situation. For 12 months, at least I have not heard such a sad talk about the state of our economy from the representatives of the government, whom ministerial officials may consider to be. The most vivid title was on the first slide: 'Estonian economic clock has stopped'. By adding data from Statistics Estonia that the last quarter of last year's economic growth was 0.7% and the year was 1.1%, and exports decreased by 10% in January, I think these claims should be accepted. I will take this opportunity to ask you again a question that has not been answered because of a lack of time. How do you feel about your claim that a new recession will start in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U98	Thank you. It is always worth looking at the facts and looking at the reasons behind the figures. Before you panic and start declaring the crisis, you have to look at what is behind the worse-than-expected economic growth. We can see that Estonia has been greatly affected by the fact that Russia's economic growth has gone into a freefall in polite terms. If we look at the fall in Russia's GDP and count on the fact that GDP is measured in roublees in Russia and the value of rouble has also fallen, then it is no accident that Estonia's exports to Russia have fallen by 4 to 5% of GDP. This is partly or predominantly related to the decline in purchasing power of Russians, but of course it also plays a role in the sanctions imposed by Russia on the European Union by banning food imports. This alone shows that we have a very clear inherent problem. We also need to know that Finland, which is our most important trading partner of all time, is not doing well at all. The Finnish economy has been stagnating for several years, and there has even been a slight decline. It has therefore also been somewhat more difficult to export to Finland. Thirdly, if we look at the impact of the fall in oil prices, the price of Estonia's maximum oil production is currently lower than it was a year and a half ago. 300-350 million! This 300 million, if we take a smaller number, means exactly 1.5% of GDP. If we add these things together, we'll see where this minus has come from. At the same time, many companies have record years. This is somewhat surprising in the hotel industry, where last summer there was talk of a very big crisis, but the beginning of this year and, in fact, last year as a whole still remained a small plus compared to the record year. Last year, one can say, was a record year in the Estonian hotel industry. At the beginning of this year, I believe that the number of overnight stays increased somewhat surprisingly quickly. So even in a sector where there was a great deal of talk last year about the crisis, the situation was actually much more positive than the facts. At the same time, I am personally concerned about how Estonia's exporting companies are doing. If we look at the export volume, the picture is poor. If we look behind the numbers again, we can see that two sectors have gone through a very large drop. Firstly, the export of telecommunications equipment to Sweden, which in many ways was dealt with by a company whose orders are quite volatile, has fluctuated over time. Secondly, transit through Estonia, which makes sense, because its added value in Estonia is quite small, but the price of transit products, or oil in particular, has fallen significantly, so the volume of transit has also decreased because of this alone. If you put all these things together, it is clear that it would be premature to declare the crisis on these signs. It is certainly worth watching very closely what is happening in the economy and considering that, in any case, the main effects now come from outside. Russia has gone very, very badly, and it does not really leave us affected. In this context, I would certainly not go into the apocalyptic moods today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U99	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Every year you have ruled the country, 1,500 people in the Circa have become unemployed because of large redundancies alone. This sad trend continues this year. Sending all these thousands of unemployed axes into the forest to cut the bush into the boilers of Eesti Energia is not a serious or sustainable solution to the problem. Of course, I am pleased that you are at least trying to solve this problem somehow, which is already a step forward. But what, in your opinion, are more comprehensive and sustainable solutions that would offer people in rural areas, especially in Ida-Virumaa, a more secure and fuller future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U101	Thank you. I must point out that there was also an error in your question. In fact, jobs have certainly been created in Estonia in the last two years, much more than they have been lost, and unemployment has decreased significantly in the last few years. I do not have the exact figures available as of 26 March 2014, but they can be looked at because the unemployment fund provides weekly statistics. In terms of size, I dare say that 10,000 people have been employed during this period, i.e. the number of unemployed people in Estonia has fallen by at least 10,000. If we compare the time of crisis, we will see that unemployment in Estonia has fallen several times. At the time, we were talking about more than 100,000 unemployment, and so far these figures are considerably lower. That's one. Secondly, I have today described a number of concrete steps with which the state, for its part, has contributed to the creation of jobs, but we should not forget that it is up to the companies that create jobs in Estonia, and it is up to the state to make an effort to have the best possible business environment and the most tolerant atmosphere possible, so that we do not discourage foreign investment, either with high taxes or with a bad attitude towards people different from us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U102	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U103	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I am asking for the point of view of state reform. You said the hospitals have taken seriously the redundancy plan, but I'll give you a couple of examples. On Võru Street, I was recently met by a person with two sticks who said he had to be in the hip surgery order for a year and a half. This weekend I met the voters and came up with a more surprising fact. Please note, this is not a fairy tale or an anecdote. According to a man, he was told that the order of the knee surgery was two and a half years old, but he himself was over 70 years old. Give me advice on what I'm gonna say to these people! What happens next and where are the solutions? At the same time, we know that the Faculty of Medicine continues to study Finnish with great care, etc. These problems are more than that. How do we proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U104	Thank you. This subject could be discussed at length, and as former Minister of Social Affairs I am very well aware of it. Of course, it is important to know that if we are effective in the provision of support services in hospitals, the same amount of money will not be taken down more services and more wages will be paid to doctors and nurses. So a slight change, but it also helps to shorten treatment schedules. Indeed, you are right, the treatment queues are definitely problem number one in Estonian health care. One of the things that I believe will help to significantly shorten the order of treatment is that we create an opportunity for people to see, by means of a simple system, how long the queue is, for example, in a hospital in a neighbouring county. I am absolutely sure that this person from Võrumaa will be ready to travel either to Põlvamaa or to Tartu if he finds out that the treatment order is twice as short. This opportunity must be offered to people. Personally, I do not understand why it is still the case that when we book a hotel room, we can do it with a mobile phone in a wonderful way, using a Booking.com program, for example, but when we make an appointment with a doctor, a patient in the best e-health country in the world has to grab the phone over and over again. I have raised this issue several times in the government. I know that the Minister for Health and Labour has set deadlines for officials to improve e-health solutions so that patients really can see when they can get to a doctor quickly and which service provider can do so at the earliest possible time. The second thing concerns what I was talking about in relation to the same doctor who wrote about access to medical care in the capital and the fact that the market economy in health care is Satan by wearing, I stress, the logo of a private company operating in the field of orthopaedics. In my opinion, for example in orthopaedics, it is in principle possible to shorten treatment queues if we increase competition and allow private clinics to market on similar grounds as hospitals in the hospital network. I can't promise you that a private company providing orthopaedic services would necessarily be in the place you mentioned, I think it was Võru. It's possible in Võru, too, but it might not happen there. But if we increase the chances of private players, this company would certainly be created in Tartu. If this shortens the order of treatment by, for example, one year or six months, I believe that this is a choice that the patient can make. All the more so when it comes to a person who has a real difficulty moving, the municipality can probably support him by transporting him to a doctor in Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U105	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question goes back to Ida-Virumaa and concerns the vocational education system in Ida-Virumaa. Vocational schools are known to operate there in three places: Narva, Sillamäe and Jõhvi. The study groups are full. After all, we want to increase the authority of vocational education in society and we want young people to take up the profession very quickly. These conditions exist in Ida-Viru County. Why do we now need to start combining schools instead of dealing with curricula and bringing them closer to labour market needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U107	Thank you very much. The answer is very simple: it makes them even stronger and allows them to offer even more specializations throughout the county, to do so at a better level than before, allowing them to reduce duplication and develop the strengths of each particular place. I myself recently attended the Vocational Education Centre in Ida-Virumaa. The fact that the merger gives them new opportunities is not only a ministerial talk, but it is also a local view, at least in Jõhvi. These schools provide vocational training for young people who come from primary school or upper secondary school, and all three of them remain in schools, and it is simply a matter of legal form and how cooperation takes place. An important aspect besides this is that all three schools in Ida-Virumaa also offer retraining that is as precise as possible to the labour market and people's needs. I went to school there after seven o'clock on a Wednesday day, and there were many auditoriums full of people. It was evident that there were not only newborn people who had it as the first school bench or who had received the so-called primary education, but there were still plenty of those who were actually undergoing retraining. In any case, it is worth the effort. This is a plan that I believe has been well received on the ground. I went there on the assumption that maybe the Ministry of Education and Research had a big ghost on the ground, but actually it was the other way around, the plan was supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U108	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U109	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I wonder how you'll be able to make up our connections with the Gemini when you talk about any subject. At times, there is doubt whether you will add our names to their Facebook page or what is going on. By the way, linking them to the reduction of foreign investment in Estonia is much less credible than linking it to your bright socks. But when it comes to investments, has the government analysed the situation in Latvia and Lithuania, what they have done? Their foreign investment and economic growth are already larger than Estonia's or are becoming larger. Maybe we could learn a lot from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U110	Thank you. Let's save that tie and socks for a costume chat. Here on the remote, I take this opportunity to answer more serious questions. Estonia's ability to attract foreign investment here depends mainly on our tax environment and the wider business environment, and on the workforce that can be found here. We know that we ourselves, at least I believe in it, do not want to be a country with cheap labour in the future. We must therefore be competitive in creating smart jobs. We have talked about this quite a lot here, we have talked about this in the context of the R &amp; D review, we have talked about a number of questions to answer, that it is up to us to do what school education is provided here and how well it is in line with the requirements of the labour market. If we can make the right decisions here and keep our strengths, including our business environment, we will also create jobs with increasing wages and increasing added value in Estonia. We've already talked about IT. I consider it very right that IT is now taught in Narva College, University of Tartu. We know that in Narva, there is a decent level of real education. It is quite logical that IT is also taught at upper secondary school level, knowing that companies in Estonia as a whole have an interest in creating up to 10,000 jobs in the IT sector. I didn't come up with that number myself, but I've been told by the management of the ITL, or the IT alliance. I also went to several companies last week, which have created tens of new jobs. I have today listed some companies that still want to create hundreds of very high-paid jobs. The government, of course, is taking its small steps in this regard. The government certainly does not intend to distance itself from this; the business environment is up to us and we must constantly improve it. I also consider it important that the Prime Minister, when he goes abroad, takes with him a business delegation at every opportunity. This week, too, I am going to the United States with a business delegation. Last time, the feedback was very positive. In my opinion, it is the duty of every member of the government to contribute to obtaining orders for Estonian exporting companies. This is certainly the way we attract investments in Estonia. As for the odinian group on Facebook, you can ask people sitting in the back of the line about it. Ask if they are part of this group, and if they are part of it, ask why they are part of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U111	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U112	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I'm a little concerned about your claim that people don't have to work at their place of residence. I want to think that home feeling and identity are important to people. You don't always have to blow yourself up. Young people's values and their hopes for the future also depend on how they perceive the ability of their parents to bring bread on the table. But here's my question. How seriously has every decision and draft that comes from the government been analysed from this point of view, how does it affect job creation and regional development? For example, the current Nature Conservation Act would rather destroy life in the countryside and reduce jobs rather than create them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U113	Thank you. I urge, however, not to attribute to me claims that can very easily be refuted by looking after the verbatim. That's one. Second, what exactly did I say? I stressed that we should not deny people this possibility, this alternative, that if, for some reason, whether objective or not, there is no job for this person's skills, wishes and requirements, he could go to work in a neighbouring country, for example. Yes, 200 years ago, all the people of Estonia were connected precisely to the plot of land where they were born. But I dare say that about two thirds of the people who are in this room now do not work in their home country. Is there something wrong with that? I don't think so. I think you're all doing a very important job. Of course it is better, that is what I also emphasised in my reply when there are jobs equally everywhere in Estonia. But we have to take into account that certain changes are taking place in the economy. One type of job disappears, another type of job is expected to create more added value. These changes do not always apply in such a way that just as many jobs are immediately created in the same place as they disappeared from there. I therefore believe that it is not unnatural for the unemployment fund to provide people with opportunities to work a little further than the county border. I do not see anything strange about the different estimates of the number of thousands of people in Läänemaa, which is a very large part of the population of Läänemaa, working every day in Tallinn. If it is their choice and if they can thus offer their family a better livelihood, then I think that no member of the Riigikogu or minister should deny them that. On the contrary, we should encourage everyone to find as good a job as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U114	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U115	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I come back to the subject of electricity generated by burning wood at Auvere Station. Economically, it is useful to burn wood that does not need to be delivered more than 50 kilometres away. I'd like to understand the logic. We're essentially pulling down the entire forest that grows in Ida-Viru County, it's a forest that grows from Aser to Avinurmen, and if we don't, we're gonna have to pay the forest that we're bringing from a distance to get the electricity. Doesn't my logic fit your logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U116	Thank you for your question. I'll calm you down a little bit. You said we'd take out the forest within a 50-mile radius. I agree, of course, that it is worth bringing the wood closer. From the area you mentioned, Avinurme, etc., it makes sense, of course, to take it. In Ida-Viru County, RMK estimates that there are sufficient opportunities for this, at least RMK has nearly one million cubic metres of timber there. I can't comment on the exact figures, but there are plenty of ways to cut down the forest, but that doesn't mean the whole area needs to be cleared out. Far from it! In Estonia, millions and millions of cubic metres are still cut down than is the case every year. Ida-Virumaa is one of the most densely forested areas, especially the neighborhood that remains against Lake Peipsi. So it's a long, long way from being cut open somewhere. On the contrary, even after these decisions, the forest in Estonia grows significantly more each year than is cut in a year. It may be interesting to know that 40% of Estonia was forested during the Päts, before the war. Today more than 10% more of Estonia's territory is covered with forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U117	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! You often have to answer about Ida-Virumaa. I believe that you have considered this issue and, for yourself, ranked three or four main reasons why unemployment is the highest in Ida-Viru County. Would you mind sharing these thoughts with us? What are these fundamental reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U119	Thank you. If you take the most topical reasons, Ida-Virumaa will certainly play a role here, because Ida-Virumaa is very much dependent on one particular area, or oil shale energy. In oil shale energy, processes have taken place over the last few decades, which have significantly improved the production chain, starting with the mine and ending with the production of electricity. As a result, the number of jobs in oil shale energy has decreased by thousands, despite the fact that new production capacities and new power plants have been created, despite the fact that the Viru Chemistry Group alone has invested hundreds of millions of euros and the state has invested more than a billion euros in Ida-Viru County through Eesti Energia over a few decades, I stress more than a billion euros, only Auvere plus Enefit 280 cost 900 million euros. This is certainly one very big argument. Effectiveness must take place everywhere in industry. It is also important that there was also a very large textile company in Ida-Virumaa, whose competitiveness, due to the current level of wages, was simply no longer such that this company could continue. This was a central approach for specific sectors. Another thing that stands out in Ida-Virumaa compared to other counties is the lack of Estonian language skills. It can always be said that Estonian is a little needed in this environment. But if we look at re-training opportunities, I have been told by both the head of the local unemployment fund and the employees of the vocational education centre that if people want to go from a production company, for example, to the service sector (it has grown in certain places in Ida-Viru County, we will see, for example, investments in hotels in Narva-Jõesuu, but you can probably bring these examples more than me), then it is elementary that we must at least have a minimum level of knowledge of Estonian. It is probably the logic that Ida-Viru County currently has a very high demand for Estonian language courses at all levels. I really hope that, together with the Minister of Culture, we will be able to find ways to expand Estonian language learning in Ida-Virumaa, to offer it to more people, so that there are no bottle necks that are certainly very regrettable. I have not looked at this extra statistics this year, but I believe it is about the same as it was last year. Last year 83% of the unemployed in Ida-Viru did not speak Estonian. There's still a very, very large correlation here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U120	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U121	Mr President! Mr Prime Minister! Colleagues! Some time ago, I had a long conversation with a German television journalist. This conversation about taxi drivers in Narva began, it was supposed to be the main topic, but then it went to unemployment in northeastern Estonia. I had to tell him that in the 1990s, the official unemployment was 18 to 19%, and informally, the specialists at the Sillamäe Institute of Economics estimated it to be 25 to 27 percent. It's a terrible time. Economic growth began in this century, and it was a staggering growth. In the first half of 2008, the lowest unemployment rate in the history of Ida-Virumaa was 2%. In terms of unemployment, we were at the time, you will remember, these were very good times in Estonia as a sixth place, if you count 15 counties and Tallinn. On average, we were in fourth and fifth place. But then the decline began, and there are four reasons why we cannot resist. The first reason is global, I agree with the Prime Minister. It's the price of oil. If the price of oil falls from $120, the price of Brent crude oil was about 117, right, less than $20, then oil shale oil is of course not competitive and the chemical industry is also not competitive if it stands on oil shale. Look, oil shale, it's Ida-Viru County. This means that the price of oil should have an impact on Estonia as a whole and really does, but it will only give this acceleration to unemployment in Ida-Viru County. The next reason is the action of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, which is very difficult to assess logically in any way. In April 2007, there was a provocation, which was rather a political event, but we quickly realised that it was also an economic event. In Narva, there are still eight objects standing here when you come to the village, so I can show you that were prepared in 2005 and 2006 to get investments. One is the five-time building of the hotel Narva, which still stands without windows. The second is the former seventh-school building, where the hotel, conference center and small spa were to come. These were projects that even the notary had an appointment. People studied Estonian laws, all the credits were agreed for investments. There was also a hotel and a nightclub in a building that stood right across from the fortress. They've already transported heat lines, electric wires, water pipes, built sewers, everything's in the ground. But then 27 April 2007 came, and within two weeks, investors with whom they had worked for years left Estonia. Of course, this is more of a local problem in Ida-Virumaa. But I recall that at the same time, the Prime Minister said that Estonia does not need Russian transit. He did, didn't he? He did. And the transit started to disappear. I went to Ust-Luga in 2005, the shore was empty, there was nothing there, only a couple of cars stood. There is now a port that reached 87 million tonnes last year. In comparison, the Port of Tallinn must have processed 19 million tons last year. The port of Ust-Luga has developed and is growing every year for eight years, growing enormously. We don't need our ports, we don't need our railways, we've lost transit. But who's suffering? Ida-Viru County suffers. The third reason is the activities of the Riigikogu, to which Ida-Viru County has nothing to say. I'll remind you of something like Nord Stream. This whole thing started here in Parliament. It was resisted, and here, take a look at the verbatim charts! It was said that Finland and Sweden would support us, that Russian gas would not be able to enter Europe under any circumstances. As soon as a fatal decision was taken that we would refuse to realise this project, Finland and Sweden took over immediately. -Momenally! -Momenally! We lost about 20,000 jobs, we lost a billion kroons in the money back then. We cannot resist the activities of the Riigikogu in Ida-Virumaa; we simply cannot. The fourth and global cause is the action of the European Union. Yes, sanctions are currently in force against our milk and meat producers and producers in the Russian Federation. But have you not forgotten that these are counter-sanctions? At first, the European Union imposed sanctions against Russia and Estonia joined them. We told our milk producers that Europe would compensate for this. I remember those stories. There were some sober heads who said there wouldn't be any compensation, everyone spitting on you, it's a purely political decision, that's not how problems are solved. But if you obey every order, why not, let's try that way. Because of these sanctions, we lost enormously. This is one factor that affects all of Estonia, not as much Ida-Virumaa as the rest of Estonia, but also Ida-Virumaa. Ida-Viru County is now the first in terms of unemployment. I guess the last time I looked at the average salary was last November. Once again we're 12th, we've fallen a lot. This has been caused by the global oil market, the Government of the Republic, the Riigikogu and the European Union all together. This cannot be treated with Estonian language courses. You can try, of course, but I don't think it'll do any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U122	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U123	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I even had to go to my office to look for a computer, make sure I didn't lie to the prime minister. I read to you, Prime Minister, the text of the slide from the Ministry of Finance. It is stated that the liquid assets of the Treasury have decreased by 23,3%, and in December 2014 it was EUR 1 billion, EUR 125 million, and in December 2015 it was EUR 747 million. Is that a reduction or isn't it? The European Union's money is also state budget money and already accounts for about a fifth of the state budget. It is said that the reduction has something to do with the European Union's money, but basically the treasury's reserve has decreased. Speaking of another example I gave, I don't know what I was wrong about. In competitiveness, we lose to Latvians and Lithuanians, even because of electric excise. They have a minimum European Union rate of EUR 1 and we have an excise duty of EUR 4.47. Is there a big difference? How can Latvia and Lithuania manage and we cannot? But electricity is an important input for every entrepreneur. Second, diesel excise duty. Mr Prime Minister, I do not want to look up the verbatim that you have said in the Riigikogu that if Latvia does not come with the increase in excise duty on diesel, Estonia will review this excise duty. But today, the situation is that we have a 14% increase in excise duty and the Latvians only raised 2%. I don't know any transport companies in or around South Estonia whose machines would be refueling in Estonia as they headed towards Europe. They have maps of Latvian fuel filling stations and all this money is going to Latvia. According to the law, our excise duty on diesel should increase by more than 20% in the next two years. Latvians and Lithuanians certainly will not make such an increase, because I think they have much more countryman wisdom. Let us also take this subject, which I have talked about ten times or more about here, the situation of farmers. Yes, we talked about the need for farmers to ensure equal conditions of competition with their neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania. We haven't paid the top-up, and we're not going to pay. Over 300 dairy farms have been shut down, there is a complete crisis in the pigmeat sector. But if there is no country's direct support for our farmers, what can be given to them, how can a level playing field be ensured? We could talk long and hard about other ways to improve competitive conditions, but that is quite a different story. As far as deforestation is concerned, the Riigikogu says that there was once 40% of the territory under the forest, and now it has suddenly grown to 50%, so that 10% could be cut down, it is not state-manly. The forest is not money in the sense that it should be taken down and turned into an oven. The forest has a much greater value. I don't think we're going to have to cut down this amount of forest in the future, because there won't be much more of that. When you travel around Estonia, you can see how much of this forest is left. This can't be the government's last lifeline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U124	Thank you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said today about jobs. I'll give you a few ideas I want to make. A few words about the role of central authority first. Over the last few months, ministers have said that jobs will be created and that serious efforts will be made to get technology parks to work in Ida-Virumaa. Today you can say that Narva Tech Park works, it has started a small way in Jõhvi, Kohtla-Järve and Kiviõli. That is what our policy is about, because technology parks create thousands of jobs. What does a technology park mean? It's either a large piece of land or a small piece of land, but there's gotta be water, electricity, heat and sewerage. If we're gonna build a building or a private house, we're gonna think about four things. It depends on how much a square metre of land we offer in technology parks from Narva to Kiviõli. I think the most favorable conditions are with the Viru Chemistry Group. Tehnopark's land is located there essentially across the road, with pretty good cleaning equipment built next to it. I believe that if we offer land to businessmen who want to come to Ida-Virumaa to start some business, then the most favorable is the square meter right next to the Viru Chemistry Group. All conditions of the water, electricity, heat and sewerage are met. We started in Narva. Now we have Jõhvi and the next steps are on Kohtla-Järve. But the thing is, we're gonna have to think three, four or five times in the future before we start doing this big job. Of course, I cannot say anything about today's government, because this work started more than ten years ago, but I think that the way the central government looks at it will depend on what next steps we will take in order to have jobs. Of course, the role of the mayor and his team is important. Today, everyone is guilty, on the one hand, of the government, on the other hand, of the local authorities, but, frankly, the county government has somehow been left out of this controversy. So I want to draw attention to the role of rural governments in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U126	Thank you. There's no more calls. Mr. Prime Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U127	As some false claims were made during the negotiations, I have a good opportunity to disprove them and, hopefully, to reassure the honourable negotiators a little. As regards the volume of liquid assets on which this news was made, it is worth reading the news as a whole. This is a purely liquidity issue. Indeed, if the payment was made at the end of the year and was received by the Treasury at the beginning of this year, it could seem that, as at the end of the year, the reserve had temporarily decreased, but it must not be disregarded that this reserve had been restored very quickly. If we take into account that the country has been clearly in surplus with the budget for two years in a row, even in the long run, then it is not worth getting too upset by such individual news, all the more because they are a little misleading. You can take it a lot easier. As far as the forest is concerned, I certainly have not said that 10% of the forest in Estonia should be cut down. That would be absurd. However, I stressed that at the time of Päts, 10% of Estonia's territory was really covered with forest, even more than 10% less than today. It was simply a small historical example. However, Estonia's cutting volume is currently about 12 million cubic metres per year. Even if we cut three million cubic metres more a year, we wouldn't chop more than it would grow at the same time. Several forest experts have said that as much cutting should be done as it grows. We are far from being able to reduce the volume of Estonian forests in any way. You just have to know how to manage the forest wisely. I agree with a number of things Mr Korb said about technology parks. In Narva and other regions of Ida-Virumaa, land, infrastructure and everything you have said must be subsidised, so that companies can create jobs there. As far as I am aware, however, the interest of economic operators remains rather high. By the way, Russia also has companies interested in investing in Ida-Virumaa, and there are those who have already invested. What I didn't understand was what Mikhail Stalnukhin said. I find it totally inappropriate to accuse Estonia and the European Union of Russia's aggression against Ukraine. All the sanctions imposed by the European Union against Russia have been driven precisely by this unwavering fact. In no way can it be considered justified either aggression or legitimacy for Russia to impose its own sanctions. I also find it ridiculous to accuse any former Prime Minister of Russian trade flows to Ust-Luga. I think every Estonian who has taken an interest in this subject knows that Russia had been planning the construction of this port for a very long time. It is also a very strong exaggeration to claim that, like those transit flows that entered Estonia in Ida-Virumaa and moved along the railways in Ida-Virumaa, but the terminal still reached Muuga or Paldiski, there would have been some huge added value for Ida-Virumaa at the time. I think it's heavily exaggerated. Rather, even given the current prices and production volume of oil, the added value of the Estonian Energia Oil Industry, which has been significantly developed in recent years, can be exported from the Port of Sillamäe with oil produced in Estonia. If you walk around the territory of the Port of Sillamäe, you will see that despite the fact that the owner of the Port of Sillamäe is constantly talking about how bad politics the Estonian state is driving towards Russia, how we should bend towards Russia more smoothly and turn a blind eye to the fact that this has repeatedly been an aggressive state towards our neighbours, there have actually been some developments in the port of Sillamäe. It is claimed that they will also take place in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U128	Thank you. We're done answering the third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U129	Let's go to today's fourth question. This is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Kariladi, Kadri Samson, Märt Sults, Oudekki Loone and Toomas Vitsut to the Prime Minister about emigration in a war situation. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Jaanus Karilaidi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U130	Ladies and gentlemen, On 18 February, five members of the Central Party Group asked Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas about exodus in a war situation. In fact, at the end of 2015, the Ministry of Defence ordered a study from Turku-Studies AS, which revealed that in a war situation, one in five people living in Estonia would consider leaving here. Young people under the age of 39 would be particularly prone to leave, one third of whom would consider fleeing Estonia in this situation. In the event of an attack, only 62% of Estonians and 42% of Russian-speaking respondents would be prepared to take the gun and protect Estonia if needed. The results of the survey show that Estonia's defence capability is inadequate and that there are serious problems in designing and implementing defence policy. Consequently, we have four questions for the Prime Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U131	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question to Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U132	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your request on 18 February for an exodus in a war situation. True, it must be said in the reply that no issue directly concerns emigration, but it does not change the title. The first question: 'What measures is the Government of the Republic planning to take to increase the will of the people to defend their national defence? " The desire for protection is abstract on the one hand, and quite clearly visible on the other. Both today's mother tongue day and the anniversary of the Republic, cities and counties are showing that people care about and value their home and country. The great crowd three weeks ago at the flag-shooting ceremony right here in the courtyard of Toompea Castle and the Defence Parade in Vabaduse Square also confirmed this. It is clear, however, that the will for protection is truly known only when the country is facing a real threat, figuratively speaking, when the enemy is behind the gate. How many, then, are ready to actually protect their home, their village, and their land? Today, we have no reason to doubt people's will for protection. I will give concrete examples. The Defence League is constantly receiving new members. As of the first day of the year, the members of the Defence League were exactly 25001. Young men and women go into military service; they do not seek sideways to avoid it. Several national defence courses are increasingly popular. The battle school in Võrumaa has just acquired military knowledge and skills from members of the Riigikogu and government, not to mention representatives of the private sector and the third sector. There is a two-year queue for senior national defence courses taking place twice a year. As an alumni of this course, I strongly recommend that all those who are able to respond to this invitation, which the Counsellor of the National Defence Commission will forward once every six months, as soon as possible, because these very intensive courses are indeed worth this week. There are very many and very different examples. More and more people find a suitable form and way to contribute voluntarily to the protection of the Estonian state. With regard to the desire for protection for young people, the country has been contributing specifically to this for some time. Since 2011, national defence education has been mentioned as a elective in the national curriculum of the upper secondary school, which is compulsory for the school and optional for the student. This means that if there is even one student interested in national defence at school, the school must allow him to study national defence. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Research has been entrusted with the task of drawing up a broad-based concept of national defence education in the government's work programme. It will be completed by the end of March and will provide for concrete steps in how all students can receive national defence education. The second question: 'Why has the government failed, in cooperation with the Riigikogu, to make national defence teaching compulsory in upper secondary schools? " First of all, it is not stipulated in the laws in force that the teaching of national defence should be compulsory. Nor has this been declared to my knowledge by the Centre Party. In fact, there is no mention of national defence teaching in the Centre Party programme; the 2015 Election Platform also spoke of national defence education as a elective and of developing opportunities that I could not understand in general education schools and not of making this subject compulsory. But that's it. Teachers and educators would say here that the more young people can choose for themselves and decide on their subjects, the more motivated they are to learn. However, as has been said, the increase in the number of schools teaching national defence shows that as a elective, national defence education has justified itself. Since 2002, when the government, more specifically the Ministry of Defence, took on the task of developing national defence education, the number of schools teaching national defence has increased by about 100 schools. That's 2002/03. During the academic year, national defence was taught at 38 upper secondary schools and eight vocational schools, and students from 138 upper secondary schools and 19 vocational schools can attend national defence classes during that academic year. The government's action programme provides for a reduction in the volume of compulsory courses and an increase in the freedom of choice for students, providing the opportunity to teach the subject more flexibly and in a more flexible manner, training students to make choices, plan time and take responsibility for their studies. However, I come back to the fact that we have a specific deadline for the Minister of Education to make proposals on how each student can obtain a broad-based national defence education. Question 3: 'The Defence League as a voluntary organisation is Estonia's biggest guardian. In this light, it is interesting to know why the Defence League has still not been adequately funded, that there is still not enough weaponry, uniforms, or equipment. ' The Defence League, as a national security carpet, has an important and central role in our national defence model. I am very pleased that there has been a significant increase in the membership of the Defence League, including Women's Home Protection, Home Daughters and Youth Eagles. This trend, I hope, will continue. On the first day of the new year, the Defence League, as I have already said, had exactly one more than 25,000 members, and last year the number of members increased by about 1,200. The number of active members of the Defence League is just under 16,000. I very much appreciate that the Defence League is active, involving its members in organising various activities and exercises. In addition to the annual major exercises or regionally oriented major exercises, such as the training in North Estonia, Hunt, the Northern frog in Viru County and the Hurricane in Western Estonia, up to 50 training events are planned each week of the calendar year, with the number of participants generally between 1000 and 2000 people. However, as regards the development of Estonia's defence capabilities, this applies systematically and within the framework of the current development plans. We have agreed that until the full operational capability of the Defence Forces military structure is achieved, the spike of efforts will be aimed at developing a rapid reaction structure for the Defence Forces, including the Defence League's militias. The acquisition of equipment for the Defence League and the provision of units of the Rapid Response Structure to be trained by the Defence Union are subject to a general procurement plan for the area of government, i.e. the purchase of equipment by the Ministry of Defence or the Defence Forces, but not by the Defence League itself, is carried out in the same way as in other Defence Forces units. More than EUR 38 million will be allocated to the Defence League's defence forces, which are part of the Defence Forces Rapid Response Structure, for the purchase and maintenance of equipment on the basis of a procurement plan for the next four years. The Defence Forces' budget for next year is planned at EUR 9.9 million for the Defence League units. Entities not belonging to the Rapid Response Structure shall be provided by the Defence League itself on the basis of its internal priorities. The funding will be provided through a provision to be paid by the Ministry of Defence. All those who contribute time and energy to national defence must undoubtedly be recognised as volunteers, but in the development of military capabilities and in the context of resource constraints, the priority of the government that I manage is to implement the military defence directly by the established rapid response structure. Question 4: 'The protection system of the entire population continues to be on an uncertain basis. When will we get clear guidelines and teachings for our population in a crisis situation? ' Having answered three previous questions, I cannot agree with your argument that our defence system is uncertain. As I said at the beginning, the desire for protection is abstract on the one hand and quite clearly visible on the other. We have done a lot, but much remains to be done, because security is something that will never be finished. As you well know, Estonia's defence is based on the broad-based approach to national defence. This means that the defence of the state does not only involve military defence, but must be prepared for national defence by all public authorities and, in fact, by the whole society. Since 2014, we have been working to ensure that the population is protected in a crisis situation and that the state works. In this debate, it is worth remembering that the protection of the population is not about building a bunker or constantly spoiling food supplies, but about protecting the population is about the safety of the population. We need to know who is doing, how, and at what expense, for example, who is organising evacuation or food supply. At national level, we do this by regulating laws and implementing broad-based national defence. People's common sense and education on defence matters remain at the heart of public protection, just as I said in the preceding paragraphs. Once again, we will improve education through military service, the Defence League, the implementation of broad-based national defence, higher national defence courses and national defence teaching. In addition, in December 2015, we launched a population protection task force under the 'Government of the Republic Action Programme 2015 to 2019', aimed at improving the public's awareness of possible crisis situations and their readiness to cope with these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U133	Thank you, Prime Minister. Despite the fact that no questioners were present during the hearing, there are still questions for you. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U134	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! I don't know if this is about late evening hours or your long answer, but you talked so nicely about the importance of freedom of choice for students that I didn't finally understand whether you, as the chairman of the Reform Party, were in favour of making the Reform Party's position to make national defence education compulsory in upper secondary schools or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U135	Thank you. I would like national defence education to be available to everyone. We have agreed that proposals on how to ensure this will be developed by the Minister of Education and Research in the near future. That's the point of the government's work plan, we've signed up for this government agreement, and there's no way I want to challenge it. Life, however, has shown that in some cases positive experiences have been gained when learning is seemingly voluntary for the student. This training has helped to organise people from the Defence Forces, and its quality is actually very good. It should not be excluded that in the future, national defence education could be transferred to Estonia with the participation of people with experience from the Defence Forces. Moreover, we have agreed in the government's programme of action that national defence education should be based on a broad-based approach to national defence, which involves more than military defence. Of course, military defence is very important in order for the country to be able to function perfectly in the face of any major crisis. But in my opinion, it is also very important that not only members of the government, not only public officials, but also society at large, have a broad-based understanding of national defence, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the Ministry of Rural Affairs, for example. Each of them has a role to play in national defence. By the way, we have repeatedly done exercises for members of the government and top officials to review a number of very difficult situations, based precisely on a broad-based approach to national defence, and to look at the specific tasks of ministries that may not deal with national defence issues every day in conflict situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U136	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U137	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! I'll take the word. According to the study, in a war situation, one in five will leave here, which means about 260,000 people. Have you thought about how they're going to leave with boats like during the last war? Have you foreseen anything to prevent this, or is it, on the contrary, inevitable that a quarter of a million people will leave, and especially young people will disappear as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U138	Thank you. Look at the results of this study. Just because someone is considering one option or another doesn't mean he's definitely gonna choose it. The study also includes the message that four-fifths are convinced to stay here and do not even consider an alternative. It can also be seen from this survey that more than half of the people living in Estonia are ready to arm themselves in order to protect their homeland. It is very difficult to imagine a situation where half of society should be armed. After all, we have the Defence Forces with their structures and the need for more than half of all people, men and women, young and old, to take a weapon and start fighting, it is very difficult to imagine. Of course, it is very good to see that people are basically prepared and, in response to the survey, they say that if the country needs their help, they are ready to come to help. It's also a big deal, even if we know that there's really no need for half the people to grab a gun. This, however, gives a positive signal that if there is a need for additional training gatherings, mobilization or whatever, people will probably say, yes, of course, they are ready for it. Last year's Siil, which was not only the greatest exercise in Estonia's history, but also one of NATO's greatest exercises for a very long time, gave me assurance that the Estonian army is working well as a reserve army. Let me remind you that most of the people who took part in Silas were not professional soldiers; they were not conscripts; they were reserveists. Yes, of course, professional soldiers and conscripts took part, as they do every time in the Spring Storm. But this time, there was a very high proportion of reserves. The way it all worked was, I think, very positive. Of course, this exercise was very useful for strengthening Estonia's defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U139	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U140	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Prime Minister, you did not answer Ernitsa's question. So what's the plan? Are you going to do something about it? Okay, well, it's not gonna be a quarter of a million people, but it could be 100,000. According to the survey, most of them are young people, or the same reserveists, or at least those who work. How will this society function, this broad-based national defence society, if 100,000 or 150,000 people leave here? Is there, however, a plan to discourage or even hinder people who want to leave? Second thing, you were talking about Sii. 7,000 men were summoned, but the invitations were sent out three times as many as 20,000. About one third of those invited will usually attend the training of the Defence League. So this picture isn't really that pretty. But do you think that those who decide to leave should be able to go peacefully or that the government still has some sort of desire to keep people in a crisis situation in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U141	Thank you. I think that it is our mutual desire to do everything in order that the examples you give us are purely hypothetical; it is up to all of us to do everything to ensure that such thought exercises remain merely thought exercises. Of course, no government can prevent the movement of people, but I am absolutely sure that there are enough people in Estonia who, in the event of any conflict, are willing to defend their country of origin, grab their own weapons if necessary, contribute as a medic or whatever. The mere fact that a clear majority of Estonian people are not only prepared to contribute in words but also in deeds is a very strong deterrent. No foreign force can stand against us if our own will is strong. I would not go into this glue to start discussing logistical issues if our primary task and interest is to ensure that there is no conflict at all. In this very unlikely situation where a conflict should arise, our primary interest is to resist as one man. That's the main thing. As far as Siili is concerned, of course, almost twice as many people participated there as you mentioned 7,000. If I remember correctly, about 13,000 participants came to Siil. 6000 was more the normal number of participants in the Spring Storm than the Spring Storm, while the Sail had almost twice as much exercise as the Spring Storm.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U142	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U143	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! There were 7,000 members of the Defence Forces along with the reserveists. You said 13,000, but this figure was obtained, considering the defence allies as well. The Defence Leagues are a little different. The question, however, is something else. Today we had a meeting with representatives of the same task force that should prepare for the protection of the population. It is very good that such a task force exists. But it turned out that, as of now, we have absolutely no preparation for the protection of the civilian population. What else did you find out? It turned out that, in principle, every family or person now has at most a few days' supply of food and water, etc. What else did you find out? It turned out that dealing with people in crisis and war situations is basically on their own shoulders, as the state currently lacks communication means to inform people. How do you intend to quickly come out of this situation so that people can get information about what they have to do in a crisis situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U144	Thank you. As you have even eloquently confirmed, a task force has been set up to actively address these issues. But that's not all. I can't tell you all the details in this room. If you invite me to one of the Riigikogu committees, where the conditions are appropriate, we can talk more. But you can be sure that the Government of the Republic is conducting regular exercises at all levels for all kinds of situations, including those with very low probability of realization. I can assure you that Estonia's readiness for very different situations has improved considerably over the last few years. Looking at the longer term, the amplitude of recovery is even greater, but for the last two years, I have seen personally in all the details and I can say that the picture is much better. In general, we should not talk about Estonia's defence capabilities in too negative tones. I can say that never throughout history the Estonian state has been nearly as well protected as it is now. The basis for our protection is, as has been said, the will of our own people, our own Estonian soldier, his equipment, his weapons, his willingness to fight on behalf of the state. I have no doubt about that. Nor do I doubt that, if necessary, we will have an ally in NATO, the world's strongest military-political force. I must admit that if any politician in your party or anyone else questions NATO's solidarity, NATO's nature or Estonia's accession to NATO, I do not understand this logic. NATO membership is the most secure insurance policy in the world today. I believe you will agree with me when I say that attacking NATO, in any region, would be completely irrational and insane.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U145	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I don't have a question, I just want to settle one of your misconceptions. EKRE has never questioned our NATO membership. However, we do occasionally make reasoned criticisms on various issues, including those concerning our defence, when we find something worthy of criticism. But we have never questioned NATO membership.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U147	Thank you. However, I will take this opportunity to reply and say that you have repeatedly called into question Estonia's membership of the European Union in this Chamber, which is also a very important political association, of which a very large part belongs to NATO. Secondly, I can almost literally recall the words of your left-hand man in this Chamber when we were talking about helping a NATO country. It was an economic issue, but still. He said that each country could manage its own affairs, and we would not have to spend our strength and energy on helping some of Europe's peripheral countries. This is our NATO ally, about whom your party partner said so. He was very wrong. If you turn the situation around and imagine that your party would have a leading role in Estonia and one of Estonia's leading politicians would say something similar, would it increase, or would it quite a few times be less likely that the same country, which I emphasise, is our NATO ally, would come to our aid if we needed help? I urge you not to forget, in the heat of this point, that in 25 years Estonia's foreign policy has made a great deal of effort to ensure that Estonia is never alone again. Besides having our own defence and our own soldier, we also need to have more friends than enemies. Please don't ruin our relationship with our friends!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U148	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U149	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! We are seven men so hard in this Chamber that, of course, we can pull NATO upside down if we want, we can ruin geopolitical relations around the world and throw Estonia in a fight with the United States or with Greece, who is definitely coming to our aid when it comes to this. These are the way I say, speculation in the anecdote area. What I really want to talk about is defence. In almost all your answers, you stressed that we have a desire for protection. I'm sure we have a defense, but there's also a lot of people who don't have it. You said you couldn't stop people. Come on, in the event of martial law and general mobilization, you have no choice but to detain people and force those who do not want to do so to do your duty. That's one thing. There's no other way, or you'll be sitting alone in Toompeal Stenbock's house. The second aspect, which is actually the most important, is also important in this matter. The defence will is not enough, the defence will must be armed with iron, and we will not have enough. You are determined to always recommend to others all sorts of things to read and to know. I suggest you get acquainted with the book Lembitu, written by me and issued a few good years ago. The uncoroned king of the Estonians. It is the military-political aspects that I analyse quite to a large extent there, and it is the main reason why our ancestors were once under the control of the Germans and their allies. The reason was that our militia, with their weak armaments and not the best training, was left behind by professional combatants. We're actually in a similar situation right now. If you assume that the Defence League, with its largely self-equipped weapons, is capable of confronting Russian Special Forces, then the result is clear: we bear very serious losses. Our lack of iron supply remains, by the way, largely on your conscience. The fact that we don't supply our people with rubble vests, kevlar helmets, or everything else we need is paid for with blood. This thing is just so rough. You're bragging about the defense. The defense fades very quickly when your friends die around you, they get torn apart, or their faces are blown to pieces. War is a terrible thing, it's not just the will for protection. In order for this terrible thing to be realized in the most lenient way possible, the government must equip those who have a defence desire with appropriate means of protection. We are no longer talking about being able to equip ourselves with armoured capabilities when we read between the lines of the information service report that a military conflict is approaching Russia. We don't have a chance to buy dozens or hundreds of tanks or planes. But we should demand from our allies, on whom you so much rely, the primary anti-tank devices in this amount, so that we can really blow dozens and dozens of invading tanks to shreds. We must insist that we have the capability to counter short- and medium-range missiles and that we can suppress the enemy's air force as much as we can, so that we have coastal defense batteries and mobile cannons. This must be demanded of our allies now, because the political process, when they come to help, will inevitably take time. But to blame us for dispersing NATO... You know, if you want to get into the magazine Blinker, you can, of course, claim it. Your statement is in this area. So, guys, let's not brag, let's just do the real thing! Iron is the real thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U150	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U151	Have a nice evening for everyone who's here, Mr. Prime Minister, too! It seems to me that he wanted to pick a fight with us from the start today, but as a former speaker has said: I am in very good shape today and it will not work. First of all, I'm just gonna have to get rid of this demagogy. The European Union and NATO are not the same thing, just not the same thing. The fact that their members overlap in many ways is not detractable from the fact that they are the same thing. In particular, NATO means military capabilities in the United States. Anyone with a little common sense to avoid retreating behind politically correct stories will understand it and admit it. I will stick to my position, and our entire party will stick to its position. It doesn't work like that, because Greece is in NATO, we have to pay off his debts indefinitely, otherwise he won't come to our aid. If that is the case, NATO will not work as promised. I really doubt he's even gonna work. If we have allies with contractual obligations, we have allies with contractual obligations, and we can count on them. However, if there is a hustler and extortionist people who say he is not moving a thing or even blocking the decision-making mechanism if others do not pay off his debts, then we have a very serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U152	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U153	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It's too bad there aren't any more reporters in the hall. Oh, there is one! I need to be more specific. Here was the question of supplying the Defence League. As the Prime Minister said, indeed, the armaments of the Defence League depend on procurement and on what the Defence Forces are giving us. When it comes to equipment, however, it must be said that every defence ally who is active will be 100% equipped. It's not exactly the case in the Defence League that I'm joining the organization, I'm just on the list, and I'm assuming I'm getting buttons, a belt, a helmet and a shard vest on my tray. There was a theoretical situation here where the Defence League has to fight the Russian special forces. If the Russians sent their special forces to fight the Defence League, it would be an obvious waste of their resources. There's no point in them doing this. The Russian Special Forces have more important things to do than to fight the Defence League. But I can assure you that the relevant units of the Defence League are just as well equipped and armed. There was talk here today about the protection of the population, and on the day of the Commission meeting, it was done in the same way. We realized that the state can't handle all of us hand-to-hand in a bunker and show us where the locker is with macaroni. The country is not a mother who has to tuck everyone in. Maybe we could start protecting the population from reducing helplessness in our own head. To that end, I invite all good colleagues to join the Defence League. I am glad that, despite the late hour of the evening, I can see not only in my own hall but, I can say for sure, three other allies of defence, there is no record of the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U154	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. The Prime Minister has no wish to speak either. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U155	The next question is presented by Uno Kaskpeit, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U156	Mr. President! Dear Minister, We have an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior about border control capabilities in Estonian ports. It was due to a small article. The Finnish Minister of the Interior, Petter Orpo, spoke in an interview with the Estonian Päevaleht that immigrants from Iraq who arrived in Finland were disappointed in the Finnish country and at the speed of processing documents. In the first three weeks of last September alone, 5 000 immigrants arrived in Finland from Iraq and refugee status has been most often denied to Iraqi citizens. Finland wants to organise and has already organised direct flights to Iraq to send back immigrants from Iraq who have been refused refugee status. The Finnish minister saw the danger of Iraqis leaving Finland to escape their return. That is why there is also the risk that these people may go to Estonia because they want to go to other parts of Europe this way. On this basis, we have five questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U157	Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U158	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Let it be said that the number of asylum applications in Finland has fallen drastically since 29 February. In the ninth week of this year, less than 100 asylum applications were submitted in Finland, namely 93. So these figures have decreased several times since last year. There is currently no reasonable consideration as to why this figure should start to increase if Finland continues to behave in the same way. But let's come to the questions. The first question: 'How does the Police and Border Guard plan to prevent immigrants from arriving in our ports? ' Here the answer is quite short. Indeed, we have an agreement with all the shipping companies that operate passenger transport. They will provide the Police and Border Guard Board with lists of passengers and crew members of ships arriving in Estonian ports, which the Police and Border Guard Board will be able to check before people arrive in port. That is why we have a fairly clear picture of who will arrive in Estonia, and it is also possible to take measures. The second question: 'Are there plans to restore border control in ports? ' Here the answer is even shorter: yes, there is. Of course, we have reviewed these plans as well. The third question: 'What forces are planned to restore border control in ports? " It is quite clear that we first use the resources available in cordons and police stations and, if necessary, relocate police officers from other areas. If we are talking about the reintroduction of border controls for a longer period of time, then, of course, it will require additional resources. Question 4: How soon will the Police and Border Guard Board be able to restore border control in ports? ' This depends very much on the risk assessment, but if necessary, we are ready to move from the current normal regime to enhanced activities immediately. If we're talking about restoration for a long time, you could say that in two or three, maybe four days, we'll be able to achieve a 24-hour readiness to be 100% ready. As I said, if necessary, we are ready to move immediately from normal to enhanced activities. Question 5: "Are there planned cooperation between Finnish and Estonian border guards in this regard? " The answer is quite simple. Of course, we are constantly working with our Finnish colleagues, not only at the operational-tactical level, but also at the political level. I have a lot of contact with my Finnish colleague, the last time we met in Brussels last Thursday, so we have a close contact. Estonia also has a liaison officer in Finland. Contact is available, information is exchanged and cooperation with Finnish colleagues is very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U159	Thank you. Questions for the Minister. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Estonia, as a sea country, also has a number of small ports and soon the season will start. Is it meant to control both the vessels and the people who are going to move to Estonia through these ports?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U161	Thank you. Of course it is. In other ports border controls exist at a challenge, so this has been happening for a long time. Elik, the traffic on the water, it's all traceable. The vessels entering the territorial waters of Estonia will be contacted and asked which port they are moving to. It is the responsibility of the vessel to tell where he is going, how many passengers he has on him and who they are. Of course, if necessary, police and border guards will be sent to port to check everything that needs to be checked.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U162	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U163	Thank you. Do ports with permanent ferry connections to Finland and Sweden have the necessary working and residential premises in case of mass immigration?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U164	Thank you. There's no way we can get more people from the ship than the ship can hold. Estonia's borders have been closed, which I'm sure the heirs know. The exact number of people that come from the ship can be accommodated and checked in port buildings. If we need reinforcements, as I said, we'll be able to bring more people from the cordons and precincts. Similarly, it is possible to restrict the movement of the port building through the entrances where necessary. If you have been at even the D-terminal to travel to Finland, you know that there is an access system that is currently just open. Of course, we have the readiness to control all the people who arrive in Estonia by ship.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U165	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U166	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. It is known that cargo ships arriving in Estonian ports also have passengers who are subject to the same conditions as the Schengen in general. Does the Police and Border Guard Board physically control cargo ships arriving in Estonian ports and their passengers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U167	Thank you. As I said, depending on the port, there is a different regime. There are ports where control takes place on a challenge, and there are ports where we have a permanent presence. I also said that all the bases that enter the territorial waters of Estonia must declare who is on board them and what they are doing. If that's what the threat assessment envisages, we'll, of course, check the cargo ships. Apart from the Police and Border Guard Board, it's worth remembering, cargo ships are being dealt with by the people of the Tax and Customs Board. So the eyes of the Estonian state are on these ships.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U168	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U169	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There has always been talk about the sea border, but is there a willingness to block groups of persons arriving illegally in the area between border crossing points?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U170	Mr. Speaker, may I ask that the question be clarified? What do you mean by border crossing area?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U171	Please hand over the microphone to Arno Bridge!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U172	In an area between border crossing points from which it is possible to cross the border with boats or land borders. How is surveillance ensured in this territory?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U173	I'm sorry, but I'm still a little confused. If you mean the vessels moving on water, I will say once again that the vessels approaching Estonia by the waterway are all controlled by radar surveillance. All ships and other vessels shall comply with the call sign and the signals of the Marine Guard Centre. If this is not the case, of course, the patrol will be sent to check this vessel before it reaches the port. It is not easy to approach the Estonian coast. In order to reach the Estonian coast, it is still necessary to come to the port and then, of course, it will be possible to control this ship. As far as land border control is concerned, it's a long story. As you know, we are preparing construction work at the border, designing is underway. With the construction procurement, we'll start moving forward by "pieces" this year. This concerns, in particular, the eastern border. There's work in preparation. I think it is more difficult for an illegal border crossing to remain unnoticed today because the border line has been cleaned and border guards are using patrols, mobile cameras and other tools to identify and prevent illegal border crossings. If we can complete border facilities on the eastern border of Estonia in 2018, I can assure you that no border crossings on the border between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Estonia will be undiscovered, because the technology we purchase and install there will not allow anyone to cross the border without leaving a mark behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U174	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The European Union and Turkey are negotiating to send all illegal immigrants back. The European Union also intends to ban them all from entering the European Union. This is a very good mechanism and should be implemented here too. Do we have legal regulation to prevent mass immigration and illegal border crossings, or should some issues be further regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U176	Thank you. Of course, the necessary regulation exists in Estonia. Those who do not need asylum in Estonia will be expelled. A draft law granting international protection to an alien is under parliamentary procedure. Among other things, it provides for changes in order to make legal proceedings faster than Estonia has refused asylum, and it would be possible to tell a person quickly whether or not it has the status of asylum seeker in Estonia. If he does not receive asylum, he will be expelled from Estonia. Of course, expulsion proceedings will be initiated against those who are illegal in Estonia. Each year these expulsions have been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U177	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U178	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! We have had relatively exotic personalities from very distant lands. Are there necessary medical staff at border crossing points and facilities to control arrivals, so that they do not cause rare diseases, and are there safeguards for the medical protection of staff at border crossing points against infections?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U179	Thank you. All illegal border crossings shall be treated in principle according to the same pattern. A person caught illegally crossing the border will be detained. He will then be moved to a detention facility where there is a holding cell. If, for example, the border crossing has taken place at the Koidula railway station, it is possible to place him in the detention chambers of the Koidula railway station, if this has taken place elsewhere, then he will be taken to the nearest detention cell. There will then be all the necessary procedures, including medical checks if necessary. It's an ambulance in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U180	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U181	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of the Interior! Is it true that if I turn in the check-in at the port of Tallinn and give my ticket to my colleague Valeri Korb or Aadu Black, for example, then he can get on the ship instead of me? Or is it possible that there are, for example, 50 to 60 people on board a ship who do not have any documents at all? Is that possible today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U182	Thank you for your question. Theoretically, such an option exists if the person acts illegally and is not controlled by the shipping company. Police have carried out random checks and have indeed identified that there may be passengers on board a ship who have not made a check-in. But we must consider that there is no Schengen border between Estonia and Finland. The exact same movement can take place between Estonia and Latvia. If you give your document to Aadu Black and he drives it to Latvia, it's a very similar case. It is possible to move freely between Estonia and Latvia, and it is also possible to move freely between Estonia and Finland. When travelling between Estonia and Finland, check-in or, in Estonian, registering on a ship means that you are registering on a ship. Similarly, if you buy a bus ticket and give it to Aadu Black and Aadu Black travels to Tartu with this ticket, it is your bought ticket, which Aadu Black travels to Tartu or even Riga, you have bought it under your name, but it is driven by Aadu Black. It should be taken into account that this is a free movement, although one speciality: if a person moves out of Estonia, he must carry an identity document, whether he or she is taking a boat to Finland or a car or bus to Riga.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U183	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U184	Thank you, Mr President. Since my name has been mentioned, I give you my word that I will not do such things.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U185	The Minister is pleased. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U186	Good Chairman! Good minister! I couldn't help but hear the names of all the people on the ship being notified to the Police and Border Guard Board. Does this mean that my name, as a citizen of the European Union, will go every time I take a boat, somewhere to check, or will the names be transmitted only if it is not European Union citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U187	Thank you. I see that Mr. People's Envoy came to ask such an important question, so he took a little breath. We have an agreement with the shipping companies that they will provide us with a list of ship passengers from which we can check the names. Of course, we can immediately see who the citizens of the European Union are, and there is no reason to control them. When it comes to a third-country national, we have reason to see whether or not this person has a legal basis for staying in the Schengen area. Of course, there is no total control, there is no need for it and there is no resources for it. What we do is a profile-based assessment. In particular, as I said, it concerns third-country nationals who need to be checked whether or not they have the right to stay in the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U188	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U189	Mr. President! Mr. Minister! I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U190	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U191	It was a pleasure to hear from the Minister that he had found the Finns and was in contact with the Finnish Minister of the Interior. When it comes to Finland, the Finnish Border Guard has started to use conscripts to strengthen the surveillance of the eastern border. They have this opportunity because they have not destroyed their border guard capabilities, as these coalitionists have done in Estonia over the years. Finns also have the opportunity to use their border guards if the situation becomes more stressful. It is important that both Finnish conscripts and the reserve forces have training in border control. Our Minister of the Interior, instead of looking at Finland and getting acquainted with the principles of border guarding there, because the situation on the border is similar to the situation in Estonia in terms of landscape and neighbouring terms, took a tourist trip to the US a few months ago to review the US and Mexico border. The entourage that accompanied the Minister has never been associated with the border guard, so it may have been like a tour of interest to them. Are we prepared to guard our borders and prevent our arrival in an illegal state? The development of border surveillance is important for day-to-day border surveillance and it is also important to be prepared to resist either mass immigration or security threats. Today we cannot confirm with certainty that the whole concept has been thought out in the administration of the Ministry of the Interior and practical preparations are being made as planned. Since the state border is the legal border between the Estonian legal order and the security of the state, we wish to discuss this issue in a comprehensive manner in the Riigikogu. We want to know how the executive is prepared to guarantee border security and what the concept is. If the Ministry of Internal Affairs is establishing a new capacity and willingness to organise border control on the basis of such a concept, then I would also like to make it known in the light of the whole. The whole picture eliminates the fact that we have a 'case-by-case' preparation. Secondly, if there is a concept of border guarding, what legal framework does it need? For example, it is obvious that the Police and Border Guard Board cannot be prepared for anything and needs a constructive and competent reserve. Is the legal and actual creation of a reserve for border guards part of this concept? We think it's necessary. We have a desire to understand what is being done in the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, so that the state border is guarded in such a way that it is actually prepared to cope with changes in the normal border guard regime. The story that the Defence League is being called to the border is, I'm sorry, a joke. I saw that joke a few years ago around Valga when we had Mr. Obama here. Then the Defence League was put on the road with cars. Firstly, the Defence League has not received any training for border surveillance. They stood like nice boys and smoked around the car, but the road across the road goes for quite a while on two sides of Valgat's border, this green part was all unguarded. So if the car had crossed the border, the bad guys would've come out of the bush and got on the car, that Defence League guard would've been close to zero. So we still want to know the whole picture of how it is planned to guard the border in the event of crises and threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U192	The members of the Riigikogu have no further requests to speak, but the Minister has decided to take the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U193	Good heirs! I congratulate you on the fact that when we talked about the sea border, we came back to the land border. Very good! Let's take an hour or two, I'll come to your group and tell you about it if you don't know all about it yet. Mr. Kaskpeit as a former border guard knows very well what the situation is. That it's better today than it was ten years ago, Mr. Kaskpeit knows, too. I'm just gonna give you a little overview of the partners we're building a state border with. Besides the Police and Border Guard Board, the Maritime Administration is of course involved, in particular as regards the marking of the state border, Technical Surveillance Authority, which manages frequencies, State Information Systems Authority is looking at this work on the information security side, of course SMIT, Aviation Authority, Elering, Air Operations Control Centre, Intelligence Centre, State Forest Management Centre, Land Administration, Information Board, etc. We are working with them to ensure that the border of the Estonian state, which is, among other things, the external border of Schengen, the European Union and NATO, is protected and guarded at a very good level. I can confirm that if the Riigikogu, including the EKRE Group, is able to vote in favour of the state budget in the autumn of this year, so that sufficient resources are allocated for the next year to build up the state border, then the state border will certainly be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U194	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U195	The following inquiry has been submitted by Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. An inquiry is for Sven Sester. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U196	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The inquiry is about Estonia's tax environment in the shipping sector. We presented it at the beginning of February, and this is what we are talking about. Estonia is a maritime state, where both passenger and cargo shipping have historically played a major role. Unfortunately, Estonia's Baltic Sea countries are the only countries that do not offer tax relief, and as a result there are no merchant ships in the Estonian ship register since February 2014. By comparison, in 2003 there were 38 cargo ships in the Estonian ship register and there are currently more than 100 cargo ships in the Finnish ship register. Shipping subsidies are also one of the few subsidies that the European Union allows the country to pay. Unfortunately, Estonia is not taking advantage of this opportunity. The average cargo ship would bring about EUR 25000 per year to the state budget, which would be the sum of the registration fees and the issuing of certificates. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has been accompanied by a working group whose model calculations show that, with a 20-year perspective, the state's tax revenue would increase from 250 vessels to 245 million euros. In this context, we have four questions about what Estonia is doing to support its shipping sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U197	Secretary of Finance Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I reply to an inquiry into the Estonian tax environment in the shipping sector. I will read out a specific question and give a concrete answer. The first question: 'For what reasons has Estonia refused to introduce tax incentives for shipping companies? ' I will answer this question in view of the time I have been in office as Minister of Finance. The Working Group on strengthening the competitiveness of the shipping sector at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has drawn up proposals recommending the introduction of a tonnage tax system for shipping companies, which is quite widespread internationally, as well as exemptions from the tax on seafarers' income and social contributions. The feasibility of these changes is being considered. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have repeatedly consulted on measures concerning the shipping sector, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is currently working to clarify the circumstances that require further analysis. The introduction of a tax incentive must be clearly targeted and it must be convincingly justified why a tax measure is the most appropriate way of achieving the objective. As the cost of tax incentives granted to one sector is indirectly passed on to other sectors and taxpayers, they must be considered. The Ministry of Finance stated in its written reply to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that the expected impact of the tax credit on the number of ships flying the flag of Estonia and the associated shore sector requires further analysis. When considering tax incentives for seafarers, account must also be taken of the fact that sailors are above average paid, and when we talk about Estonian residents, they also consume public goods while living here. The Estonian social security system is financed mainly by social tax. Seafarers are entitled, on the one hand, to state support in the event of old age or health risks. In a solidarity insurance system, the introduction of a full exemption for the person making the income of the work would mean that it would come from the expense of other contributors and insured persons. On the other hand, it is true that when on board a ship, seafarers do not consume the social benefits offered by the state (e.g. health insurance), as they guarantee the ship owner. As far as we know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is working to collect additional information from shipowners, which would provide the necessary assurance that the measures taken are sufficiently attractive to register the vessel in the Estonian register. In order to take account of the economic effects, it is necessary to be able to estimate the number of vessels potentially added to the register. The second issue to be further assessed is whether it is more appropriate for the shipping sector to provide for tax differentiation or to implement a support measure that takes into account the amount of tax paid. The second question: 'Has the Ministry of Finance analysed the possibility of introducing tax incentives in the shipping sector in order to bring more passenger and cargo ships to the Estonian register? ' As I have already explained, the issue of tax incentives in the shipping sector has mainly been dealt with by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as the Ministry responsible for maritime affairs. The Ministry of Finance has been involved in this debate and we are working with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Question 3: 'Can you give examples of tax policies in the shipping sector and its impact on the economy in other countries bordering the Baltic Sea? ' The report of the Working Group on Strengthening the Competitiveness of the Shipping Sector provides data on Lithuania, Latvia, Sweden and Finland from the countries bordering the Baltic Sea. They show that sailors are often exempted from income tax, refunded income tax, or have a lower tax base than the remuneration received. According to more recent information, from 1 January 2016, for example, Finnish seafarers have the right to have 20% of the taxable salary deducted, up to a maximum of EUR 7000. Deductions will gradually decrease as wages increase. Further data on the benefits in place for social security contributions in different countries are still to be collected. It is useful to look at tax systems in other countries, but as far as the economic impact of taxation policies on the shipping sector is concerned, it is difficult to assess separately from other factors affecting the development of the shipping sector in a particular country. Analysis of the economic impacts of the shipping sector shows that ships are directly involved in the development of the shore sector and stimulate knowledge-based job creation in the flag State. The European Commission's Communication 'Strategic objectives and recommendations regarding the EU's maritime transport policy until 2018' points out that around 70% of the jobs in Europe related to shipping are knowledge-based and high-quality jobs on land. According to the Danish maritime administration of a successful shipping country, the merchant fleet under the Danish flag is a prerequisite without which the Danish maritime cluster would not be able to operate. The Danish maritime sector employs about 80,000 people, or 6% of the private sector's workforce. However, as I referred to earlier, it should be taken into account that copying a few tax incentives alone does not necessarily mean that ships would be brought under the Estonian flag on a massive basis and that there would immediately be the same amount of jobs in the shore sector as there are in Denmark, for example. Estimates and decisions on the flag change of vessels are made in a rather long-term perspective and the quality of the flag State services and other factors also play a role. Question 4: 'How many ships of Estonian shipping companies are currently flying the flag of a foreign country, and how much tax revenue has been lost to the Estonian state as a result? ' A study carried out more than five years ago by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications found that Estonian shipping companies owned at least 60 cargo ships. It is expected that this figure has not changed much. With regard to the state's loss of tax revenue, from this point of view it is not mainly about bringing ships belonging to Estonian shipping companies under the Estonian flag, but about whether it is possible to bring foreign shipping companies together with their own fleet to Estonia. This is because the flag change entails the creation of new ground-based jobs, including the possibility of moving the ground office to the flag State and additional tax receipts from these jobs. As I said earlier, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is currently carrying out an assessment of the potential of additional ships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U199	Questions for the Minister. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U200	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I do not understand a little bit about the claim that if we make any tax incentives, it will come at the expense of someone, and someone else will pay for it indirectly. If Estonian sailors now fly the flag of other countries and pay taxes to other countries, then we will get nothing at all. If we were to make some kind of special regime for them, you brought the example of Finland here, we would still get something. These ships wouldn't be any different, but some of the taxes would be here. Another thing I do not understand is that other countries are making an effort to get these offices to come to the flag State and have ground services there. Why are we so lukewarm about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U201	Thank you. Two questions, I will try to answer in the order in which they are presented. The first question is how different tax incentives affect other taxpayers. Very simply. In particular, we have a system of solidarity with the tax system, which also applies to social tax and pension systems. If we release the representatives of some kind of professionalism, it does not matter whether it is maritime or some other area from paying taxes, then all other taxpayers will jointly or severally cover the existing or future costs, because where else would this money come from? As for your second question, I would not say that we are being lukewarm. I'd say it's the other way around. This working group, which I mentioned, started once when I wasn't wrong, I don't think it's wrong, Juhan Parts' initiative. The working group has analysed possible options. I wouldn't say everyone's been rejected. Rather, an analysis is being carried out of what revenues could be generated if tonnage tax and tax incentives were introduced, and it is very important that this involves bringing not only Estonian companies but also foreign ships here. This analysis is currently being carried out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. So I wouldn't say no attention would be paid to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U202	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U203	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! There is a certain number of so-called flags of convenience in the world, perhaps the most famous is Panama. Are any European regulations holding back and preventing Estonia from being a flag of convenience in our region?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U204	Thank you. You see, the issues associated with the various tax incentives are always like this, I'd say, slippery road. As I said in answer to one question, measures that increase Estonia's attractiveness may not always be tax measures, they may also be other measures that make Estonia's business environment more attractive. Today we have to say that we are in a situation where there are no ships specifically flying the flag of Estonia. If we are to create a favourable situation at the expense of someone else, we must consider that there may always be a country with something even more favourable. The question is whether we want to compete and are able to compete with countries that, as you said, have been brought to the level that taxes are almost no longer due, as is currently the case in some countries of the world where keeping a register is relatively formal. In Estonia, we have based our analysis and analysis of what the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has done on the basis of creating a situation where, in addition to the potential ships of Estonian companies, there is a reason to come here on ships from other countries. This means not only looking at possible tax incentives, but also looking at all infrastructure and shore-side services. This is being dealt with. I think that creating a comfort flag situation in Estonia and competing with Central American countries should not be our goal. We can set a zero tax rate not only in the maritime sector, but also in all other areas. The question, however, is how we build roads, pensions and teachers' salaries every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U205	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U206	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! Your remarkably good-paced response reminded me of an old anecdote that I think dates back to the Tsar Age. It was about how Mom was happy that her soldier son alone was on the right foot, but the rest of the regiment was on the wrong foot. Our neighbours around the Baltic Sea are doing everything wrong, too, but fortunately for us, we are not going on this slippery path. However, I am pleased that the government remains on its chosen course a year ago and is carrying out analyses. Are there any deadlines for these analysts to complete this analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U207	Thank you. Look, it's always worth taking over the good things that you believe in and that you think will lead to life. When it comes to tax policy, it has to be said that in very many European countries there is progressive income tax. There are considerably more countries than those with no progressive income tax, which does not mean that we should automatically take it over in Estonia, although there are indeed many such countries. Rather, we are looking at those countries that are going to adopt the Estonian tax system, Georgia is one of these examples. As far as your content is concerned, you said it was good to be analysed. You know, I think there's been a lot of change in thinking. A number of tax issues, which have not been discussed before, are now being discussed more and more, such as the special benefit of sport and health, which they did not want to talk about for years. I have signed the bill today, and it is waiting for the office to discuss. I believe this is a step forward. Using these analyses, we are trying to understand how it would be best to bring one or the other into practice in Estonia, either in terms of tax differentiation or in terms of attractiveness. Tax differentiation is always the easiest way to go. There may be a situation where there is a difference in taxation in one segment today, then they want tax differentiation in the next place, and finally we discover ourselves in an old Europe with a bunch of all kinds of tax differences. There are also many other measures that contribute to achieving the same objective. Let's see what this analysis shows. If the analysis says it is reasonable to introduce a tonnage tax and it will bring Estonia additional revenue in the future, then I think there is a reason to move forward. But before analysis and after fundamental decisions. If you're asking about the time when one or the other analysis will be completed, I'll say that it needs to be done properly and I don't want to give you a specific date. It is certainly not within my competence either, since the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is the ministry that is moving on maritime issues. But the Ministry of Finance is involved in this work, and we are also trying to help with our wisdom there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U208	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U209	Good manager! Good Minister, I'm listening and wondering. On the shore of the sea there is one country that operates independently, everyone else acting differently. Now I hear there's some kind of working group that's been discussing and trying to figure out if the law of gravity is in force, and it's been collecting data since Juhan Parts was a minister, even though there's been a lot of water flowing into the sea since then, hasn't it? Still, the data hasn't been retrieved. Tell us in clear Estonian, today is the mother tongue day, why Estonia is the only country on the Baltic Sea that has not introduced tax specialities for its shipping.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U210	Thank you. I would not even talk only about shipping, but we have gone clearly in the direction where the whole of Europe is actually going: as few differences as possible. The fewer differences, the easier it is to focus on the tax system, the simpler and fairer the tax system. Every distinction that has been made comes at the expense of someone else. Every distinction is always at the expense of someone else. The fewer differences, the simpler and more understandable the tax system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U211	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listen to you and I admire you. We're going to do a long and thorough analysis, research, then we're going to talk about tax incentives. But does the desire, in principle, for ships to come under the flag of Estonia have some content, or does everything end up with an endless study and analysis, but there is no decision or will?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U213	Thank you. I have that wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U214	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U215	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! As I understand the people of shipping, their proposals do not relate so much to the special nature of taxation, but to taxation or non-taxation. If you're analyzing these things, what's on the table? What exactly are you analyzing? Do you analyse the possibilities of obtaining these ships in the Estonian register or are you analysing the activities of the registers of neighbouring countries? What's this analysis of what it's all about anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U216	Thank you. There are several issues at the same time, let's say, actually there is a complex approach in the working group. In part, you touched on this in your question. One of the important issues is certainly taxation, which is related to businesses, but also to employees, to seafarers themselves. These are issues related to income tax and social tax, possible tax exemptions from the shipping companies themselves, as well as the introduction of tonnage tax. But at the same time, what you asked about is keeping records: how easy it is to get ships in the register, how easy it is to get ships in the register, what costs to carry out when ships are registered. These are the classic topics discussed in the working group. The way other countries have dealt with one or another is certainly a huge part of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U217	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I think I was starting to get an answer to my question of analysis. Are you also analysing the behaviour of other countries, especially perhaps the case of Panama, why ships are going there and why they left us in their time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U219	Thank you. Yeah, we're still analyzing. We must also take into account that we are part of the European Union's economic zone, with certain nuances. We are not a third country in European terms today. But we're analyzing it, of course we're analyzing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U220	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U221	Mr President! Minister of Finance! It seems to me that one of Estonia's brakes is that we have a very uniform tax system. If you say that Europe is moving in this direction too, I do not know much about these examples. Above all, we should fight to have a competitive economy and businesses to create new jobs. But unfortunately, we have to make tax distinctions for that. We are a unique country here on the Baltic Sea. Nobody applies corporate tax like us, no one does that with the special tax treatment of ships. Looks like we don't have any followers. I understand that the government is beginning to realise that there are differences to be made, for example, in electricity prices. After all, this is also a difference if some consumers have a different price. That's what we're all gonna win. Or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U222	Thank you. I'll repeat my thoughts, which I've already said, but it's okay. When it comes to different tax rates, both tax rates and VAT rates, countries generally move in order to reduce differences. This is shown by the statistics that the countries of the European Union are doing. But the question was about Estonia. It is certainly important to see what this goal is. If the foundations of Estonian industrial policy are currently being drawn up at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the foundations of Estonian industrial policy are being drawn up! Its only chapter cannot be the granting of tax incentives. There are other nuances that create attractiveness, there are different reasons why one or another company should be established here. But a lot of people just want to point out what kind of tax incentives are being granted here to set up businesses. Once again, we need to look at the whole thing, and I also think that today's discussion in this Chamber is very sensible in this context. It is very good that we are aware that this must be dealt with, to see how to create the situation that not only Estonian companies' ships, but also ships flying the flag of other countries, would come to Estonia, with potential benefits from shore services. We should be guided by the logic that it is not just one tax credit or the other that is important, but the whole picture. If it takes more time and political agreements to create this whole picture, then that time must be found and those agreements must be made. There is nothing strange about this: the question is finally whether or not we are working in a purposeful way. Krista Aru asked if it was our interest to bring ships under the Estonian flag. Yes, of course it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U223	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U224	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It is a sad discovery that there have been no cargo ships in Estonia for two years. I understand there are no more planes. But how do you think, will we ever get up and say that even the best company Eesti Energia does not have any more?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U225	Thank you. I'm sorry, Mr Korb, but I didn't quite understand the question, which is why it's hard to answer. Eesti Energia is definitely needed by the Estonian state. We always ask ourselves the question of why we own one company or another, whether we have public interests, security policy interests or 'dividendability interests'. In the case of Eesti Energia, all three interests are present at the same time. I think that due to public and security policy interests, Eesti Energia is definitely needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U226	Thank you, Minister of Finance Sven Sester! I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U227	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! It was very sad to hear that story. None of the answers came out of a sincere desire to do anything. It was all a big mist. We learned that Estonian companies have a total of about 60 cargo ships, which could be under the Estonian flag, in addition to which the ships of another country could be under the Estonian flag. The reason why they do not come here is the dogmatic attitude of keeping as few tax distinctions as possible, because then the tax system is as simple as possible. I have news for you, Mr Minister: the Estonian tax system is no longer easy. As a former entrepreneur, I can say that with certainty. I find it very sad not to realise that tax distinctions are one instrument that can motivate businesses and develop the economy. To take a stand-off approach to them simply because the lines in the Excel table then get a little too complicated and maybe the officials at the Ministry or the IRS have more work to do with it is very stupid. All the more so because we know that the officials of the ministry and the tax administration will not have any problem with making the system more difficult if this burden is on businesses. We also need to understand that, during the five-year work group's activities, it has not yet been fully understood that we are operating in conditions of international competition. It is not only about what is done or not done in Estonia or on whose account any tax incentives are made in Estonia. If, after all, Finland, Sweden, Denmark and all other countries are making tax incentives, they have calculated that the benefits are greater than the damage. If our own analysis shows that the potential benefits are 250 or more million euros over some years, then you might want to move some of your gray brain cells, get a little away from the dogmas and think about what these instruments are. Yeah, maybe it's not just tax distinctions. But what are the instruments? It has just been mentioned here that there are five jobs on the shore for one sailor in Denmark. So this game should be worth the candles. Instead, we are told about tonnage tax. Well, how can another one be added to motivate the ships to come here? It's a total mystery. So here's the problem with thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U228	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U229	Dear Chairman, Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This year is the year of marine culture. I have already called for some very important maritime affairs to be resolved this year. We very often stress that we are like a maritime state. In fact, we are a seaside country and now we would have a great opportunity to become a maritime state again. Perhaps one of the first steps to become a maritime state would be to rebuild our own cargo ship register. It just takes a little effort, putting people together, stopping analyzing and starting to act. There have been a lot of analyses over the years. We had a similar question not long ago for the Prime Minister. It proposed that maritime issues could be grouped together in a single working group directly under the Prime Minister's authority. One of the problems is that maritime issues are spread over eight ministries, and that maritime does not have a direct spokesperson, a direct leader, is, let's say, one part of the problem, if not the largest part. Agriculture, whose share of GDP is smaller than maritime, has its own ministry, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, which deals with this area. But the maritime sector, as I said before, is under eight ministries. Finally, I very much hope that we will have an answer as soon as possible as possible as to whether or not this ship's register will come. We need to be specific! Even the negative answer is the answer. But personally, I hope, and the Free Party hopes, that the answer will still be positive and that there will be work to restore this register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U230	The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to speak any more. Would you like a minister? Please, Sven Sester, Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U231	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, thank you for the opportunity to discuss these issues today. I think Artur Talvik rightly said that Estonia is a maritime state and that maritime issues must be important to Estonia. Absolutely! I would, however, like to congratulate the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which is the principal ministry in the debate on these issues. I think a big step forward has already been taken. Workgroup's working, first analysis's done, first results are in. At present, possible future steps are being discussed with different shipping groups, which are also awaited by the owners of shipping companies, and what action is needed in order for ships to come under the Estonian flag. Once again, I think it is in everyone's interest to see ships flying the flag of Estonia at one point in time. The question is simply whether this measure can only be a tax credit or whether other measures are possible. Often, we feel that the tax relief alone is a miracle weapon that shakes one thing into another. I think that the task of the group is to look at the bigger picture, not to stick to the tax measures strictly. But once again, I think it makes a lot of sense to continue the discussion on this issue and, in the future, to look at how the action will proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U232	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U233	Kadri Simson, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Korb, Anneli Ott, Kersti Sarapuu, Vladimir Velman, Siret Kotka, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamm, Toomas Vitsut, Peeter Ernits, Andrei Novikov and Erki Savisaar have submitted the following question. Tarmo Tamm, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U234	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Tonight's last question is for Finance Minister Sven Sester. It's about the government deficit. According to the Ministry of Finance, the state received €7.98 billion in revenue last year, while expenditure was €8.33 billion. This means that the budget was over 4%, or EUR 350 million. The main reason for the deficit was, fortunately, a temporary shift in time between the disbursement of funds for projects with European support and the receipt of funds from European Union funds. By the end of December, grants from the European Union and other institutions received EUR 370,9 million, but EUR 658,9 million were disbursed. This justifies EUR 288 million in the budget deficit, which we do not need to be very concerned about at the moment. However, the remaining deficit, amounting to EUR 62 million, is a cause for concern. The state budget expenditure of this year also exceeds revenue, estimated at as much as 84 million euros. Looking at the state budget for recent years, we can see that the nominal budget deficit has become a common phenomenon. Since the economic crisis, all national budgets have been designed with nominal deficits. This is despite the government's commitment to achieving a nominal budget balance by 2015. The achievement of this objective has now been constantly delayed. It seems that this objective will not be achieved next year either. We therefore have four questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U235	Please, Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U236	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and heirs! I will answer the questions you have asked about the development of the budget deficit. Question number one: 'Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Finance Commission, announced that despite the deficit, the government has no plans for new tax increases. Does this mean that the government is only dealing with expenditure cuts and there is no intention to change the revenue side? ' The nominal deficit of the state budget, as well as the general government deficit as a whole, does not automatically mean that the government has to intervene with budgetary policy measures. The government will target the structural balance in order to ensure fiscal policy in line with the economic cycle. As a result, the nominal budget is in deficit until the optimal level of the economy is reached and, above the optimal level, it is in surplus. According to the State Budget Act, the state budget must be drawn up in such a way that the structural balance of the government sector is at least balanced. According to the 2015 state budget, the structural budget surplus for the general government was planned at 0.8% of GDP. As Estonia's GDP has not yet reached its potential level, the structural surplus was matched by a nominal deficit of 0.5%. In addition, a number of temporary factors had an impact on the nominal fiscal position, such as additional contributions to mandatory funded pensions and investments linked to the sale of international emission quotas. It is also important to note that the government deficit last year was cash-based and therefore directly linked to the government's fiscal policy objectives, which are based on an accruals methodology. For example, a negative cash-based balance on income and expenditure related to external instruments does not lead to a deficit on an accrual basis, as revenue and expenditure is recognised equally on the basis of the volume of expenditure. The nominal expenditure of the state budget increases from year to year according to the state budget strategy. The growth rate of the various years depends in particular on the state of the economy and the speed at which external support is introduced. The pace of growth is limited by the government through wage costs, which are better aligned with population processes. The second question: 'When will the government of the state budget reach the nominal balance promised by the government, or has this objective been abandoned in the context of a changed financial world, and has the government realised that endless cuts will not accelerate economic growth and improve the availability of public services? ' As described in the first point, the nominal balance of the budget will be achieved when the economic cycle creates prerequisites for this. During the economic recovery phase, a targeted nominal budget balance or surplus will have an additional cooling effect on the economic environment and will not meet the objectives of fiscal consolidation. According to the State Budget Strategy 2016/2019, the government budget balance will reach nominal surplus again in 2018, while it was already in surplus in 2014 and in reality in 2015 as well. Question 3: 'Preliminary data show that Estonia's gross domestic product increased by 0.7% in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to the same quarter of last year. How do you view the slowdown in economic growth as having an impact on the state budget implementation this year? ' The links between real GDP growth and the implementation of the state budget, especially in the short term, can be very weak. The last few years have confirmed that. In addition to the fact that, rather than real GDP, price changes should be monitored in the context of budgetary receipts, taking into account nominal GDP, tax receipts are particularly affected by developments in the labour market and private consumption. In recent years, employment and growth in average wages and consumption have exceeded the projected levels and this has led to an excess of public revenue, despite a modest increase in GDP. Real growth in the economy last year was 1.1%, GDP grew by 2.5% in current prices, but the main tax base was the wage fund and private financial consumption grew faster (6.8% and 4.7%), while the tax receipts from the state budget increased by 7.3%, as the tax administration's good work reduced the share of the shadow economy and improved overall tax collection. In addition, an exceptional amount of corporate tax was collected on dividends distributed by Swedbank. Last year's state budget was 2.3% above the forecast level and part of it will be passed on to the following years as a positive base effect. The Ministry of Finance takes account of all the above facts in the forecasts of revenue from the state budget. The next economic forecast, which takes account of the changes in the external environment and trends in the Estonian economy, will be completed in April and on this basis we can also make decisions if necessary. Question 4: 'SEB's private banking strategist Peter Koppel published a comment following the disclosure of the PKC production closure plan that a new recession would begin here. Given that deficits have been covered by reserves in recent years, what preparations have the government made if a new economic crisis arrives? ' PKC is a typical example of a company that carries its production process with high labour costs from a country with significantly lower labour costs in a neighbouring country, where business is still in favourable conditions. Compared to 2002, when PKC came to Estonia, the differences in labour costs between Estonia and Finland have slightly decreased and other countries with an acceptable business environment have developed in the European Union or neighbouring countries where labour costs are lower than in Estonia. In Lithuania, where PKC transfers part of its business in Estonia, the average wage cost per employee is approximately 25% lower than here. Therefore, PKC's gear is part of a natural process to keep production costs competitive. The government's task is to implement countercyclical fiscal policies in the event of both rapid economic growth and economic slowdown. In essence, this means debugging the economic cycle by means of fiscal policies to reduce the negative effects of a rapid rise and decline and to ensure more stable economic development. It is the task of the state to ensure that people who are unemployed due to the economic downturn have sufficient income to guarantee their well-being at a time when they do not have a wage income. It is also important to maintain the capacity and the willingness of the unemployed to work quickly again in the economic growth phase. Estonia has all the prerequisites for implementing countercyclical fiscal policies, as our public debt is the lowest in the European Union: in 2014 it was 10.4% of GDP in Estonia versus 89% of GDP in the European Union. According to preliminary estimates, the general government budget was in surplus last year. In the face of difficulties in specific sectors, the potential of the State is reduced as State aid rules restrict the scope of the restrictions. At the same time, for the sake of the oil shale sector, the government found it possible to cut environmental charges in order to help companies in difficulty because of the fall in the world oil market, which is a factor beyond our control, and to prevent more damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U237	Questions for the Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U238	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to clarify one of your answers. On the basis of your analysis, when will the economic cycle reach the point that the state budget could achieve the nominal balance promised by the government? Or has this purpose been abandoned? If I may, I will also ask an additional question: could the eyes of this House be seen during this electoral cycle or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U239	Thank you. Your eyes already see it when you start at the end of the question. In 2015 it is very likely that a nominal balance has already been achieved, not just structural, because we have a structural balance anyway. Looking at the nominal balance in 2015, total tax revenue and tax expenditure, we are very likely to see this latest data, although it is still aggregated, that revenue exceeds expenditure. In 2014 the same was true, the revenues exceeded costs, as well as 2011 and 2010. We are talking about two things, one is budgeting, and the other is real life, or final collection. Looking at the final result, when the year has passed, we see that taxes are better received. I have already pointed out in one of my responses that better tax collection has certainly been helped by the more efficient work of the tax administration and by the many legislative changes that the legislator has made since, for example, the creation of a register of work, which resulted in about five figures coming into the picture as 'new workers'. In real life, we already see that revenues exceed nominal costs. While we are looking at state budgeting, nominality has now been established in the context of the 2018 budgeting, revenue exceeds expenditure, but in real life we have already seen it in recent years because of better tax receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U240	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Will you disprove the fears of administrative reform and confirm that the sums that must be received by the merging municipalities are there and will be recovered in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U242	Thank you. Of course, when political agreements are reached, I understand that the draft law on administrative reform has been passed and the law has been passed, it is a political guideline to the government and, later on, to Parliament, which will finally approve the state budget. With the state budget, as I have always said, it has never been so that it has remained exactly the same in the Riigikogu as it was presented. There are always changes. Certainly, if there is an agreement today, the government already has an agreement, these amounts will be found in the budget. Of course, it creates tensions in the state budget, there is nothing to talk about, because it is tens of millions of euros that will be given to local authorities in the coming years to strengthen them. But I think this resource is going to the right place. I assure you that, if this agreement is finally concluded in this Parliament and the law is passed, the Government and the Minister of Finance will naturally take these amounts into account when drawing up the state budget. How else, if you make a promise, you always have to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U243	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U244	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It's not a structural balance that pays any bills, it's a book-based methodology. An illusory picture is being created that there is no growth, but at the same time the state budget is being filled and everything is as if it were good. This is actually a short period of time for success in this way, because wage growth and domestic consumption are not endless. I'm still asking you about nominal balance. My small calculation shows that some EUR 200 million will need to be minimally added from next year's budget in order to maintain this balance. A deficit of EUR 84 million already exists in the budget, EUR 40 million is added from the oil shale sector, EUR 69 million need to be paid to the pension fund, excise duties will certainly not be collected in the past. Which option do you choose: will you increase taxes or reduce costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U245	Thank you. Your question reminds me of the question of whether you still drink cognac in the morning or not, and you can only answer yes. There's no other answer than still drinking. I am telling you this: what will be the spring economic forecast will certainly play a very important role. Let us not forget that better tax receipts, as I said in one response, will be passed on to future years. I'm sure this will play a very important role. You gave an example of reducing the resource charges for oil shale. In making this decision, the government was looking at things from a more distant perspective, because not only resource and pollution charges are coming from this sector, but also labour taxes. If businesses in this sector are closed at one point, we will not only lose potential resource charges, but also labour taxes. In fact, let us be honest, despite the possible easing that the government is doing, producers still have a negative production, but they are most likely to give relief to businesses and help to preserve jobs. I think that we should clarify this issue more broadly. Growth may not meet the expectations we have had. You rightly said that growth cannot last indefinitely on private consumption, as it was undisputed in 2015. Private consumption was high and it certainly contributed to economic growth. However, we are already seeing an improvement in our main export markets. Improvements can also be seen in Finland, which is one of our main export partners, where the economic downturn in previous years has turned into economic growth this year, not very big, but growth. The better potential of our export partners also gives some indication of our economic growth. I think we need to start thinking more and more about how the country can further stimulate economic growth in society. One way is to channel European money as quickly as possible into the economy through the various methods and measures that have been agreed for this very purpose. Every euro that comes on our market, either through soft measures or through specific infrastructure issues, will ultimately give somebody work and potentially boost economic growth. But we should also think that if we have prepared the annual state budget in a clear structural surplus, will we cool the economy with it? Perhaps it would be necessary, as the basic law says, to balance the budget? In most countries, the budget is in deficit. We should also think about these questions. Our budget has clearly been in surplus. But if the economy grows by 1.1% and we want to stimulate growth, then it will certainly be possible for the country to channel more money into the economy as one measure. I think that these issues are probably the budget strategy of the four-year country, but also the budget for next year, on the table in autumn. These are important issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U246	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U247	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Apparently, one of the reasons for the nominal balance last year is that Swedbank paid out extraordinary dividends. But what is the role of public undertakings in the structural balance? Moreover, it seems that many serious problems, including loans, are hidden in these companies and foundations in order to achieve this structural balance. The second part of the question is why the Ministry of Finance does not follow the recommendations of auditors to reduce the property of Eesti Energia and Tallinn Harbour, for example, to the extent that they have proposed. Is this also linked to the objective of maintaining structural balance?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U248	Thank you. As usual, I'll try to answer all the questions if I can. I'm gonna start from the beginning. You have identified Swedbank's extraordinary dividends. Swedbank's dividends certainly have a role to play in better tax collection. But if we look at the tax receipts for 2015, we will see better tax receipts in almost all positions than planned. If you look at the positions separately, you have to say that the excise duty on spirits is less than expected, but any other position we take is better than VAT, social tax, income tax, excise duties. So the reason is certainly not just Swedbank's one-off income tax on extraordinary dividends. You asked if there were so-called hidden loans in the companies. That was the second question, the third question was on auditors. Are there so-called potential loans hidden in companies that are actually intended for the state? Well, according to my information, there isn't. Eesti Energia is officially on the bond market and has issued very large bonds, so this money has gone for its projects, not for the construction of the Tallinn Tartu highway or for the payment of teachers' wages. One or the other loan is still linked to a particular company. Your third question, which you asked in one minute, was about auditors and possible discounts. Eesti Energia is perhaps the best example of this because the property was estimated at less than 70 million euros last year. And it was not that the general meeting would have told the Minister for Finance that so much property should now be downgraded or not be downgraded. It was already a bond-specific stock exchange obligation and a number of identifications resulting from it. The auditors shall review the positions and determine the value and return of the asset. On this basis, they will make proposals. Here the "diligence duty" of the board plays a very important role, so that there is no alternative. For example, if politicians say not to underestimate anything, it is not possible today. As far as Eesti Energia is concerned, since the Minister of Finance is the general meeting of Eesti Energia, I can assure you that the information and identity there is clearly the result of cooperation between management and auditors, not from anywhere above. They actually say what those positions are. These positions can also change. If one or the other asset does not generate the expected return, the positions will naturally change. But it's definitely their input and identification, no one else can say that it shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U249	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U250	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You spoke of measures that can boost economic growth. We are in a situation where growth is greater in Latvia and Lithuania, they are ahead of Estonia. Has and how precisely has the government analysed what the neighbours have done differently and perhaps better? Do we have anything to learn from their practice? I asked the Prime Minister the same question, but unfortunately he preferred to talk about everything else, not that. Maybe you can explain it to me a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U251	Thank you. Beauty is still in the ears of a listener, let's just say that. Whatever I say to you, you'll still say after that, no, that answer didn't satisfy you. You asked whether it would be analysed what one country or another has done to stimulate economic growth. Of course, it is not only Latvia and Lithuania that are being analysed, but, let us be honest, Finland is also a good example. What is really happening in Finland? We can see that there's a "road" split up somewhere. Sweden shows very good economic growth, but Finland has had a stagnation, if not a fallback. Such analyses look not only at tax issues but also at many other indicators that contribute to economic growth to one degree or another. Here, the attractiveness of the country as a whole, the whole issue of export capacity and the state's contribution to the growth of export capacity, and many more, to the funding of science. There are a large number of measures that contribute to economic growth to a greater or lesser extent. Of course, all countries are very active in analysing this issue, as is Estonia. At least the situation of neighbouring countries is always analysed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U252	Thank you, Minister of Finance Sven Sester! I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U253	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! It is clear that we have been walking on very thin ice for years, hoping for miracles that may not happen again in the future. At present, this nominal balance has been achieved by large domestic consumption and Swedbank's extraordinary dividends, which may not be repeated. We have an economic growth of 1%, as has now been officially said for last year, and no one knows how big it is going to be this year. We listened to the presentation by the Ministry of Finance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs today. The graphs showed down all the arrows, it was economic growth or export. What's the government still counting on? I think the government needs to do something more serious. I was very pleased in itself to hear from the Minister that the country should start stimulating the economy. In my opinion, for the first time in this Parliament, I heard that the government could also intervene in the economy. Today's Business Day editorial already talks about bond issuance and borrowing, which we have talked about for a long time. I think that's what should be done. You could take a very bold loan to build infrastructure objects, then you could make some objects. It would boost the economy and also provide work for the accompanying structural units, whether they are services, trade or whatever. If we don't change something radically here, I don't know how we can balance the state budget. But this debate is definitely ahead of us in the spring. I hope that the Minister will also come up with a proposal, as he said here a few minutes ago, that the country should start to stimulate the economy. I believe that the Centre Party will not vote down this proposal. I think that's a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U254	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to speak further, but I believe the Minister of Finance wishes. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U255	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! If I understand correctly, we will be able to see a historical picture in the autumn if Parliament is likely to support 100% of the state budget. I hope that happens. Of course, we are doing one thing, our interest is to grow the economy, and that is what we are working for. The question is how we hope to achieve economic growth. You have rather provided for additional business taxation and progressive income tax, in fines, if you could say so, for people who receive higher pay due to better performance or education. These, of course, differ from our fiscal policy decisions. Let's hope that doesn't happen. I was a little distracted in your speech, good inquisitor, by the fact that then we might finally have a budget balance. I will be honest with you that the budget is balanced. Believe me, the budget is balanced, how else could it be? We have even recorded it in the basic law of the budget, and our balance is balance. If you ask what it means that our balance is balance, then, for example, in Germany, a structural balance is considered to be 0.35% deficit. Not that they do, but according to the logic of the basic law, that's exactly what their point of balance is. If we wanted to, we would be able to go peacefully to a deficit of 0.5%, of course, before changing the basic law, and to say that we are still balanced in European terms, because our financial positions are so good. We have this opportunity. But once again, our state budget is balanced, structurally even clearly in surplus. I said before that perhaps we should think about whether, in a situation where the economy does not grow at the level we have expected, we should not further stimulate the economy. I think it's a point of thought, as Minister of Finance, I have said it too. Now the question of potential sovereign bonds. I have also said in the past that the sovereign debt instrument is actually a financial instrument; it should not be an end in itself. We should always see what we want to do. For example, we want to get on the road to Tallinn. A bond or a loan? They're financial instruments. If we have a goal, we should be guided by what one or the other financial instrument is paying. Today it came through here that we should start issuing bonds immediately, but it certainly does not have to be an end in itself. Of course, we can only act according to the rules of the game that we have in Europe. That's definitely the case, we can't get over it or around it. The rules of the game are still in place. In Europe, special attention is paid to those countries that have not complied with the rules of the game. But once again, this is our common interest. The better economic growth, the greater the potential revenue that good Members of Parliament will be able to invest and redistribute through the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U256	There are no further questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U257	Free mike. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U258	Mr President! Since this Monday's answer to questions ended at such an unusually early hour, I will use the opportunity to talk a little bit about the issues of the Riigikogu's home and working arrangements. This time, the topic is the institution of the leading committee in the work of the Riigikogu. When I was in the VII Riigikogu, this practice, which had developed in the Supreme Council, was introduced as Rules of Procedure, and so it has gone on to make every draft a commission. It was only a decade later that I discovered, reading the material of the Riigikogu before the war, that such a situation would have been almost unthinkable in the Riigikogu before the war. If there was a short draft, as we have many, a 'little' draft finalisation, which contained one or two paragraphs, then of course this draft went to a particular committee. However, if there was a long draft law, such as the one that was passed today, the draft law on administrative reform, then usually the Board of the Riigikogu or the Ad-hoc Committee of the Council of Elders formed an ad-hoc committee, i.e. a committee which was intended solely for the processing of this draft. But such drafts as we normally have, when there is a basic draft, plus some changes to other laws, are usually assigned to two, three, or four committees of directors. For example, legal issues were discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the financial aspect was looked at by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and, let's say, some linguistic or cultural aspects were also looked at by some committee. That was the rule. We've gone another way. As members of the Riigikogu, we are briefly guests in the established system of Riigikogu committees. The committees have their own paid staff, which will last longer than the term of office of a member of the Riigikogu. There are your own rooms, archives and computer systems. As members of the Riigikogu, we must adapt to the things that have been given to us. One of the results of this practice is that the lead committee also deals with other issues in the draft, which the Commission staff do not understand at all and for which there is no experience either for them or for the members of the Commission. When I was in the IX Riigikogu, I was chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee. I tried to achieve that all the drafts on these issues, which were the responsibility of other committees, would ask for the opinion of these committees, and I even tried to refer these drafts to these committees. This activity was not very successful then either, but now that I am back in the Riigikogu, I can see that it has almost completely ceased. When, some time ago, when we were dealing with the draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act, we raised the question that a large part of the sections fall within the remit of other committees rather than the Committee on Legal Affairs, the veterans and permanent paid officials of the intermediate formations looked at us as half-crazy because they have seen it before that the draft should be dealt with in several committees. I do not have a clear answer as to whether it should be different and how it should be, but that the quality of the work of the Riigikogu is not good and that it is quite close in many respects, one of the important reasons may be that the drafts are not being processed in the right place. It's making me feel like I'm doing this. It is not a professional work of the Riigikogu that an adviser to one committee asks the advisor of another committee how they should deal with the subject of another committee by telephone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-14_U259	There's no more calls, the trial's over. I'll see you tomorrow morning. Have a good night. Closure of the sitting at 8:44 p.m.
