ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 6th working week Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U2	Honorable manager! Respectable members of the Riigikogu, good morning! Yesterday, the National Audit Office published a remarkable audit concerning the organisation of state property in the last 15 years and how State Real Estate AS has justified itself. The audit is very critical, probably rightly, and indicates that the state has not developed a comprehensive real estate policy for 15 years. In fact, we do not know how much and what kind of real estate we need to carry out the tasks of the state. Public authorities pay more rent for the premises transferred to State Real Estate AS than they would have used themselves. The cost savings for the public authorities, which were hoped for in the past, were far from being born. Riigi Kinnisvara AS would need repair, estimated at around 500 million euros, but where this money could come from is now completely unclear. Overall, the state lacks a clear and coherent real estate policy. Six members of the Free Party Group have formulated seven questions for the Minister for Public Administration, Arto Asa. We well understand that Arto Aas cannot be held responsible for everything that has been born in 15 years. However, in response to an inquiry into his current position, he can come and bring this important subject to this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U3	Thank you. There is no further request for referrals or drafts. On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and the management board of the Riigikogu processes it in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 68 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, missing 33.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have two items on the agenda. The first of these is the third reading of the draft law on the ground initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 213, and we are going to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law on the ground, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 213. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U5	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the status of a member of the Riigikogu initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 272. I ask Andres Ammas, member of the Riigikogu, to waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U6	Honorable manager! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party has offered one rather minor amendment to the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, which concerns us. In our opinion, this is a rather small step for Parliament, but at the same time a pretty big step towards justice, improving the reputation of the Riigikogu and building trust between us and the voters. The content of the proposal consists of the following wording: 'If a member of the Riigikogu resigns, he or she shall be compensated only if he or she was a member of the Riigikogu for at least two years. In this case, the amount of the allowance is one month's salary for a member of the Riigikogu. ' I'll refresh your memory. There is currently such a procedure that a member of the Riigikogu receives compensation from the Riigikogu on his own request if he has worked in the Riigikogu for at least one year and receives three months' salary. The topic of the allowance for a member of the Riigikogu when the mandate of one of the members ends has been discussed since the last Supreme Council time. The procedure adopted by the Supreme Council was in force during the first parliamentary term, and later it has been regulated a few times. However, the case to which we draw attention is the way in which it should be regulated during the working period of the Riigikogu to pay compensation to the deceased at his own request. The Department of Analysis of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has carried out a comparative study in 2008 on how compensation is paid in other countries. However, it deals only with allowances relating to the end of the parliamentary term. I just used the word'reimbursement' several times. Its second meaning is compensation. In fact, let us be honest, in this context, the word'reimbursement' has little reason to use. For what should those leaving the Riigikogu receive compensation? This is a voluntary choice for the leavers. They have decided that the work of the Riigikogu is not suitable for them for any reason, or have found bigger, more interesting and exciting challenges in their lives. Of course, society cannot force a member of the Riigikogu to remain in parliament by force, but such early departures are, in my opinion, in breach of an unwritten contract with a voter, cannot in any way be rewarded with a three-month salary. A member of the Riigikogu is not a normal employee who can move forward or backwards at any moment on the ladder. This may not be the prevailing position in this Chamber, but for me, I admit, it is when a member of the Riigikogu stops his work, a little incomprehensible, even a little embarrassing. What, then, is the current compensation on our expense line? It's a goodwill statement. This is a gift for the leaver that the Riigikogu has jointly decided to give to him. Is such a gift compatible with modern society, or is it rather a rudimentary rudimentary from somewhere, I do not know whether from the times of monarchy or from some previous social organization, where they were concerned, how could a high-ranking public employee who retires or resigns, maintain his previous standard of living so that he would not be caught by any unexpected failures and could arrange his own life? I'm sorry, but we in this room aren't a bunch of losers who can't get their lives organized or manage when they leave work. In my opinion, our income is also sufficient to be able to save it. According to the initiators of the draft, the current system of leaving the Riigikogu has nothing to do with the employment relations arising either from the Public Service Act or from the Employment Contracts Act. If you are looking for any parallels here, it is generally not the custom to pay extra money for four years after the expiry of fixed-term employment contracts, the work of a member of the Riigikogu is also fixed-term. If the contractor terminates the contract before the deadline, the employer is not obliged to pay any extra money. On the contrary, I dare make one point here: in the event of the termination of an early contract, perhaps the employer could have the right to demand a fine or compensation from the outgoing employee. Perhaps the removals from the Riigikogu themselves should pay for or compensate for their departure. In any case, no one in the Riigikogu voluntarily owes anything morally to the deceased. In our view, this inequality is currently disturbing between the MP and the common citizen; it adds nothing good to the reputation of the Riigikogu. Such inequalities could be brought to an end, at least they should be reduced. The initiators of the bill may rightly be asked why you are not proposing a radical solution, why you are keeping any compensation at all. However, we do not want to make any huge gesture with this bill; we just want a fairer way of life. We're looking for a compromise. We are very open during the procedure for the draft, ladies and gentlemen, to all your proposals on exactly what compensation should be in the Riigikogu for which working time and so on. Today, however, we could start working on the draft, leave it on the agenda, and, to sum up, if the solution we have proposed becomes a law, take one step in the right direction. If this step succeeds, why should we not, in future, review the whole system of benefits in the joint work, including the amount of compensation paid at the end of the work of the Riigikogu? We are here a representative body of the Estonian people, as you all know very well. Our work, our work-working style, on how we may exercise our rights, depends, in fact, on the credibility of our entire representative democracy. If our constituents see Members, all of us, as some group of elected people enjoying unjustified benefits, the gap between voters and elected ones will grow. You may not agree with me, but I think that such a gap already exists and, unfortunately, is quite large, could be smaller. I count on the support and constructive cooperation of all of you on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U7	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U8	Good manager! Good waitress! On the one hand, it all smells like populism, on the other, it feels like poking afterwards. First of all, as you remember, there was the Toobal Bill, now there is the so-called Ironcake Bill (my wording). As a young man, but as a fossil in Parliament, can you tell us where the present compensation came from and on whose initiative it entered the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U9	Thank you, dear questioner. This issue contained a number of interesting assessments. If you mean how the benefit system came into being, then at the beginning, already during the Supreme Council, the compensation paid on leaving this Parliament and ending its membership was discussed. But it's been over 25 years. So the honest answer is, good Peter, unfortunately I don't remember exactly how the Supreme Council had this discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U10	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U11	Dear waitress, You spoke on several occasions of your own will to leave. How do you define a word set 'at your request'? Does this include, for example, retreating for health reasons? Does this also apply to a situation where something dramatic has happened in the MP's family, or is there some other force majesty that prevents the Member from carrying out his duties and the person is forced to resign of his own will? How did you think that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U12	All possible reasons for your resignation are humanely understandable and acceptable. That is why it might be right not to completely exclude the compensation paid to the leavers at their own request, but to leave the possibility of paying it for one month, for example. In this case, however, two young men's decisions to find more exciting works and activities outside the Riigikogu have led to a legislative amendment. Whether a distinction should be made between the reasons that force the Riigikogu to leave the Riigikogu in the course of further proceedings. I think it's probably possible to put it all down nicely. In this, I would rely on either your experience or the advice of other lawyers to write down how to distinguish between leaving Parliament due to certain unavoidable reasons and simply deciding on another job.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U13	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I saw a fundamental contradiction in your presentation. In one way, you say that we are not employees here, but elected representative bodies, and on the other hand, you always bring comparisons and figurative parallels to the end of the fixed-term contract for employees, etc. I do not understand such a comparison or what the purpose of your application is. I have a direct question. Are we now going to create a precedent for every member of the Riigikogu, whether it be Toobal, Raud, Kukk or anyone who acts or fails to act, on the basis of which we continue to draft laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U15	Thank you. That's a very good question. I brought such parallels, particularly because I really do not think that we should be in a particular position of preference compared to the rest of the citizens, compared to the contractors. In my opinion, it is not good for our common reputation to be perceived by voters as individuals in some privileged position, who are subject to different rules than the rest of Estonia's citizens. I would like the rights and obligations that we enjoy to be as similar as those that apply to other citizens of the Republic of Estonia, which is why I brought comparisons. Should we begin to improve the law each time according to a precedent? If we find discord or inadequacy in the current law, I will see nothing wrong with the swift elimination of it. In the opinion of the initiators of the draft act, this is currently one of the inconsistencies which, in the past, have simply not had any reason to draw attention to which there has not been any need to deepen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U16	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U17	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I noticed that there are no journalists in the Chamber during the trial of the draft so passionate and presented in the spotlight of the presidential elections, but apparently they have better things to do than pay attention to the regime of the Riigikogu. Here's my question. How do you relate the words 'two years' and 'one' that are underlined in your draft to mark the changes? Why one month? If a six-month salary is paid for four years in Parliament today, would it not make sense for a two-year salary to be paid for three months and one-and-a-half years? For example, if someone has been a member of the Riigikogu for six months, an alternate for six months in the previous Riigikogu, now being here for 11 months and then leaving, is he subject to this bill or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U18	Thank you. Good colleague! At the moment, you actually formulated one amendment yourself, which could be made on this draft. The initiators of the bill offer just the agreement that is written here. Two years instead of one because it is half the working time of the Riigikogu. This is the compromise we have proposed and the agreement. It is not possible to argue why two are necessarily better than, for example, three, two and a half or one and a half. In our opinion, this would be simpler and clearer. But if you offer another option that gets majority support, then we won't be evasive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U19	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U20	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! There is no doubt that this is a rather good initiative. It is worth discussing, and I support sending it to second reading. However, as you mentioned, the aim is to create a greater link between justice, or between voters and elected ones, so that too much distance between us disappears. I understand that's the right thing to do. However, do you not think it would be good to follow the example of the Conservative Group, which has also carried it out in practice and has collectively abandoned car leasing for cost benefits, for example? The sense of justice in society has been greatly affected by the cost benefits. So far, the Conservative People's Party Group has been the only one, as far as I know, who practices abandoning them, has carried out and is fulfilling his promise. Do you see an opportunity to imitate this example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U21	Honourable questioner! I do not see the slightest connection between the content of your question and the draft we are discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U22	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U23	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Some of the things you said, I really liked it. For example, that we need a fairer way of life, we should not be in a privileged position compared to employees or citizens, and we should not be subject to different rules than other citizens. You have a small group, but according to my information, maybe I'm wrong, you have three people who receive a pension for a member of the Riigikogu. Those who receive it were in the Riigikogu until 2003. Have you, in any previous compositions, proposed the abolition of a Member's pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U24	Thank you. As I understand it, by means of a pension for a member of the Riigikogu, you mean that if people reach retirement age and are not members of parliament at the same time, they could receive such a pension. Currently, no one is known to receive a parliamentary pension while working as a member of the Riigikogu. Indeed, our group has not tabled a draft amending a Member's pension. We'll take your thought into consideration.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U25	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This topic was actually initiated by Mr Ernits, who used the term 'crowdcock'. I have such a question as to go from here to here: in what relationship do political slang concepts such as iron cock, decoy duck and broiler exist? Is there any logical reason that words about political culture or cultural deprivation have been borrowed from the kingdom of birds?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U27	Good questioner! I would ask you, however, to take this bill a little more seriously. Examples from the field of ornithology or somewhere else should remain in the media, in the comments and articles that appear on the subject. As you have noted, as a waitress in this Chamber, I did not allow such wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U28	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! First of all, 12 points for my colleague, Herkel, for his knowledge of the field of ornithology. But more serious, the law on the status of a member of the Riigikogu should suddenly be treated as a whole. Right now, one piece has been taken out of it, this so-called ironcake thing, but we should look at the whole thing. Have you ever thought about making such an audit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U30	Thank you. I've been thinking, and we've been thinking. But we have one such experience in this Chamber with you that, if a representative of the opposition proposes an amendment to a draft or an earlier draft, the rather common answer from the mouth of the representatives of the coalition is this: 'You know, let's not deal with these minor changes, let's look at the whole picture. We will come before you in one, five, ten or 20 years with a total solution, offer a new bill and then solve all the bottlenecks. ' Unfortunately, we have experienced this, and I don't think it's quite reasonable every time. Where you see the error, come and help! If we see a specific deficit in the law, why can't we fix it smoothly and change it quickly without making any particular noise? This does not prevent us from looking at the whole law again later, reviewing it as a whole and, if necessary, proposing amendments to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U31	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U32	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I'm sure the initiators are right. And I think that Mr Rait Marustel is also right, who gave very good examples of the cases in which it could be implemented. The subject is topical, it excites many. But I'm asking why we're not discussing it further. Perhaps some exceptions can be written into the law so that all parties are satisfied. Why is this subject being taken off immediately and voted out today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U33	Good questioner! I do not have the slightest information that this draft is going to be voted out of the procedure today. Such a proposal has indeed been made in the Commission, that was the position of five Members, but I very much hope that it will not extend to all those in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U34	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U35	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Leaving bird watching aside, however, I did not receive an answer to the other side of my question. But that's a legitimate question, because I can't find an answer to that either in your draft explanatory memorandum. What is your position when someone has been a member of the Riigikogu in the various configurations, i.e. as an alternate? Will the number of days be counted, whether or not it will be two years, or will you be thinking of a two-year deadline within a single term? How is that meant for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U36	It is only during the procedure for the draft that a solution must be found on this issue. The honest answer is that the initiators of the draft have not yet sought a solution to this problem. There are probably a number of possible approaches, but the best among them, I hope, we will find them together. At the moment, as the initiator of the bill, I have no answer for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U37	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Andre Sepa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U38	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. At its meeting on 17 October, the Constitutional Committee discussed the draft law amending the status of a member of the Riigikogu 272 before the first reading discussion. Before us was the draft law amending the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which provides that a member of the Riigikogu who has resigned on his own request is to receive compensation only if he has been a member of the Riigikogu for at least two years. In this case, the amount of the allowance is one month's salary for a member of the Riigikogu. I will also brief you here on the main points of the debate between the Members of the Commission. Jüri Adams, Member of the Commission, explained that the draft was motivated by the recent departure of a member of the Riigikogu. According to the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, they were entitled to support. Jüri Adams noted that the proposal was to reduce the amount of compensation for the departure of people who had been in Riigikogu so little time. The chairman of the committee found that the purpose of paying the specific allowance is not opened by the explanatory memorandum to the draft Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu. However, the general purpose of the payment of the allowance provided for in the same section may be to guarantee the income of a member of the Riigikogu by the time he or she finds a new job. My colleague Jüri Adams replied that the Free Party Group does not dispute the need for some compensation and that it is important for many to find a new job. Member of the Commission, Lauri Luik, felt that if the law were to be amended, it should be done for the next composition, so as not to change things about itself in a positive or negative way. It is possible that this step will not change the opinion of the public, as there are still many people who think that the current members of the Riigikogu will still receive a special pension. It seems that higher civil servants are the only ones today whose wages are falling, while the average wage is rising. Whether the Riigikogu has the right to change its salary is stated in § 75 of the Constitution. Member of the Commission Adams said that, in his opinion, the provision of the Constitution in this respect only meant that a member of the Riigikogu may not increase his salary, but may reduce his salary. Kalle Muuli stated that according to § 75 of the Constitution, the law laying down the remuneration and other restrictions of a member of the Riigikogu must not be amended for the term of office. The Supreme Court has taken a position in this which is different from what Jüri Adams said and considers that the remuneration must not be reduced either. Therefore, at least the provision on the entry into force of the draft (§ 2) is incompatible with the Constitution or its interpretation. The chairman of the committee noted that the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants provides that the Riigikogu can decide to change the highest wage rate of senior civil servants in the third year of the composition and can do so for the next composition. Issues related to members of the Riigikogu concerning fees or compensations were also discussed. The question arose as to whether there was a guarantee of personal opt-out. We have received the answer that it is possible to waive the compensation, but only in such a way that the compensation is withdrawn and returned, so that taxes are withheld and that it remains in the annual accounts of the person's income and expenses. There was also talk of compensation. Jüri Adams noted that the word'reimbursement' was once used instead of 'compensation'. Compensation means that someone has made a cost and is compensated for it in whole or in part. The government gave up its opinion on the bill. Decisions were also taken. First, it was proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 27 October (consensus), second, it was decided to reject it (by 5 and 2 members of the Commission against) and third, Mr Sepp, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur (consensually).
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U39	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Sepp, thank you for this review. Did the committee's discussion include such a proposal or the possibility that if a member of a political group essentially waives the mandate of the Riigikogu for no reason, the substitute would no longer come from the list of the same party, but from the list of another party, someone who is next on the basis of the election result and whose working standards might be higher? If you say that this was not discussed at this session, is it known that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would have discussed this possibility sometime earlier, for example in the context of the Riigikogu Election Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U41	Thank you for your question. During my presence in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not discussed this issue nor discussed it at its meeting on 17 October. However, the Commission has been discussing the issue of state reform, and a Commission on this issue has also been set up. It is possible that this issue will come up again during the whole debate and analysis of state reform, but it has not been discussed so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U42	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U43	Good manager! Good waitress, could you tell me by name how the votes were divided? There were 5 terms in favour and 2 against.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U44	Thank you. On the record, I can tell you that. The first proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda was consensual. The second decision was to reject the draft and Kalle Laane, Andres Anvelt, Kalle Muuli, Lauri Luik and Andre Sepp voted in favour. Jaak Madison and Jüri Adams opposed. No one was left neutral.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-27_U45	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 272 at first reading. We are going to vote on this proposal. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading 272. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 10 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted and the sitting has also been closed. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 10.43 a.m.
