ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 12th working week. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Please, Kadri Simson! Colleagues, let's hear it!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 11 members of the Riigikogu, I have an inquiry to the President of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson. The inquiry continues to concern the purchase of bonds by the European central banks. On 10 March, the Governing Council of the European Central Bank decided to lower interest rates, extend a large-scale bond-supporting programme and offer banks long-term loans, which in some cases are so favourable that banks are paid for borrowing. Eesti Pank has been buying bonds for over a year. As of February, Eesti Pank had purchased bonds for 1.5 billion euros under the public bond purchase programme of the central banks of the euro area, and of these bonds related to Estonia, or Elering's bonds, had been purchased for 59 million euros, or quite modestly. At the same time, the European Central Bank decided by decision of its March Council to increase the existing bond support programme. The volume of one month, which had so far been EUR 60 billion, was increased to EUR 80 billion. This means that Eesti Pank must also increase its purchase capacity. If until now it was possible to buy Elering's bonds, we believe that the purchase programme could now include Eesti Energia. We ask the Governor of the central bank what has been bought so far, why in this volume and not in the larger size, and how he feels about the decision of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank to set the deposit rate, and whether it could affect the deposits of Estonian depositors in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U3	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes this in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Song Party Support Group will take place in this Chamber, convened by Laine Randjärv. Active participation, please. Checking for presence. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U4	We are going to the agenda items for today. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 161. We are going to the final vote. I am voting on draft Act 161 amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U5	Today's second item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Establishment of the Riigikogu Research Committee on possible corruption in the management of the Port of Tallinn and the revision of the measures necessary to prevent such cases in the future'. For a presentation, I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Monday 11 April 2016. The advisor of the Commission noted that the draft decision of the Riigikogu 194, which seeks to extend the powers of the Riigikogu's committee of inquiry set up to investigate possible corruption in the management of the Port of Tallinn and possible measures to prevent such cases in the future until 16 June 2016, was at first reading in the Riigikogu's plenary on 5 April. No amendments to the draft were received by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was on 7 April, and no comments were received in the same way on the draft. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 19 April 2016 (consensually) and that the draft be put to the final vote (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U7	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. There is, though. I'm sorry. Colleagues Märt Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm sorry the quick-fingered round went a little slow! It's about intonation. Kalle, you said "possible" to detect corruption. How could you say 'potential' in such an emphasis and ironisation when corruption has been fully identified?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U9	When you read the text of the decision, you will see that it is written like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U10	Thank you, dear waitress. There really are no more questions now. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments were tabled to the draft and the proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote of 194. We are going to the final vote. I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu Research Committee to investigate possible corruption in the management of the Port of Tallinn and the measures necessary to prevent such cases in the future' draft 194. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U11	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Public Transport, initiated by Riigikogu members Andre Sepa, Anne Sulling, Deniss Borodichi, Eerik-Niiles Kross, Einar Vallbaumi, Heidy Purga, Igor Gräzini, Ivar Padari, Jaanus Marrandi, Johannes Kerdi, Juhan Parts, Jüri Jaanson, Kalle Laaneti, Kalle Pallingu, Keit Pentus-Rosimkoodi, Ken-Marti Vaheri, Kristjan Kõljala, Laine Randjärve, Marko Mihkelson, Martin Kuke, Meelis Mälberg, Remo Holsmer, Tanel Tal Talve, Toomas Kivimägi, Urve Tiidu and Vilja Toomastisti. Mr Kalle Palling, Member of the Riigikogu, please report! Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U12	Sorry, it's okay!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Sorry to keep you waiting when you had to! I'm just coming from here in front of the house where the people were gathered. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guests! The 188 bill symbolizes an important choice. It's a choice between the past and the future. In 2013, while Taxify was established, PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated the global turnover of the five major sectors of the collaborative economy at $15 billion. In ten years, the human-people economy is projected to grow more than twenty-fold, to 335 billion. Looking at the sector's pace of development, I dare say this is a rather conservative assessment. The heart of rapid growth in the collaborative economy is technology that allows capital to be converted into resources previously inefficiently used: real estate, cars, leisure, professional skills, tools. In society, there are all kinds of underutilised resources that can be brought together by innovative solutions with people who need these resources. Sharing economy technology is a massive engine to increase efficiency in society. Although this is primarily a breakthrough in business models, it is also a shift towards a significantly greener way of life. Did you know that more than 140000 cars are inefficiently used in Tallinn alone? The average car stands unused 23 hours a day. The average number of passengers per car is only 1.3 people, while transport costs account for more than 12% of the average household costs. Cars stand empty in car parks, where valuable urban space is taken away to be built. This arrangement has a clear negative impact on people's quality of life and the environment, increasing congestion, making parking more difficult and increasing energy consumption. Many argue that the entry into the market of services such as Taxify, Wisem and Uber is a struggle between taxis and the collaborative economy. Actually, it's a fight between driving sharing and owning a private car. This is confirmed by the practice in countries where driving distribution has been carried out in the longer term. A study carried out at Tallinn University revealed, with great surprise, that even 47% of respondents are willing to consider giving up the family's second car in case of increased distribution of driving distribution. Consider what savings this means for the family budget as well as for our common living environment. Good listeners! Estonia's ambitious entrepreneurs are the leaders of major changes and revolutions in the world. Let's start with Skype, which changed the meaning of long-distance calls around the world. Starship's delivery robots will soon bring us home to our daily food basket, replacing up to a third of all car rides, because it is one third of the world's car rides that are made to or from the store. TransferWise, a billion-dollar company, is turning the financial sector and has led to lower international money transfers prices for the benefit of consumers. Taxify already unites people in more than ten countries around the world. Jobbatical, Teleport, Catering, Wisemile, Autovi, RentMarket and a large number of other companies created in Estonia are leading the digital revolution in the collaborative economy. There are many entrepreneurs in Estonia who have enough content to become unicorns in the next digital revolution and collaborative economy. Ladies and gentlemen, Apart from the environmental aspects I mentioned above, the collaborative economy gives people the opportunity to participate in entrepreneurship and earn additional income. We know that three quarters of Estonian drivers do this work less than ten hours a week. This is an additional income for people who have free time and need to earn extra. I know a manager in Tallinn who only handled this service in order to pay a 300-euro car lease. That's what he did in a week. There are drivers who only drive while the kids are at practice. I know a successful female basketball coach who, in his spare time, is active in Taxify. I know everyone's beloved puppet actress who serves extra in Uber. I also know an entrepreneur who travels to Uber to find new and bright talent to work for his company. The last time I drove home from the airport, my driver was a retired old gentleman who was hoping to earn at least a second pension by providing a service in his spare time. As many people as there are, there are reasons to participate in the collaborative economy. A recent study at Tallinn University showed that nearly one third of Estonian car owners are prepared to offer the service of driving on certain conditions themselves. According to the same study, 91% of Estonians are in favour of or neutral in the wider distribution of driving distribution. We see that the sharing economy is driven by human demand. The reason why different forms of the collaborative economy have spread around the world in just a few years is that people like these services. People want to use them because they're easy to use. The collaborative economy has proven itself in practice. Rather, the new technology has provided new ways of meeting strict quality standards, without being sidelined by an evil public official with a fine book. The immediate and real-time feedback system quickly scrapes out rotten apples and rewards the best. Over the years, we have tried to ensure it here in the Riigikogu with strict legal provisions, unfortunately without success. There have been areas where the collaborative economy sector has raised the bar to levels that old-fashioned, state-licensed service providers are unable to overcome. There is no better license than reliable consumer and feedback in real time. However, more competition will ultimately create a situation where the winners are all consumers, all Estonian people. I know a lot of people are gonna ask me what it's gonna be like to pay taxes. Will there not be a situation in which the country misses taxes? These are very legitimate questions. Without wanting to take a position here, I trust the Tax and Customs Board, which is working successfully with the collaborative economy companies operating in Estonia. Together, technical solutions are created that make tax declarations easy, as is always the case for Estonia. Without embellishment, I would say that the collaborative economy is spreading primarily in areas that have not been known in history for their strong tax morals. The distribution economy, mainly based on electronic money exchange, creates completely new technical opportunities for simple and fair tax declarations. The idea of Marek Helmi, Director-General of the Tax Administration, that the technological platform that is being set up could be used in the collaborative economy around the world is particularly worthy of attention. A number of studies are currently being carried out in Europe on the best use of the potential of the collaborative economy. Estonia can be the leader and pioneer here. It is a new growth engine that will increase consumer choice and help improve public sector revenues. The collaborative economy gives consumers more choice, creates flexible opportunities to earn additional income, encourages people to engage in micro-business activities and, ultimately, improves the tax revenues of the public sector. I believe that the collaborative economy will become a first step towards entrepreneurship for very many. These are the reasons why today 26 members of the Riigikogu have brought before you a first-reading draft that first regulates driving distribution in Europe. Upon the adoption of the Act, the Estonian legal language will be supplemented by the term 'conciliation carriage'. Minimum requirements shall be laid down for the operators of regulated services and for the electronic arrangement system. In drawing up the draft, it has been taken into account that the agreed services should be carried out as far as possible without public intervention and under market conditions. In parallel with the regularisation of regulated services, the draft simplifies the requirements for taxi drivers and delegates more responsibility and supervision to taxi operators. The proposal also opens up the taxi market to competition, which is less related to requirements that have proved extremely problematic in practice in compliance with and monitoring. The regulation of driving distribution is just the beginning. Other sectors of the collaborative economy also need a clear regulatory environment that enables society to get the best that this technology-based industry offers. This morning, before the Riigikogu, I communicated with people-to-people-financial services representatives, which are the main sectors of the collaborative economy, along with driving sharing, online labour market, people-to-people accommodation and streaming music and videos. They too need regulation in the 21st century. I am already gathering ideas and opinions on how to create a legal framework for Airbnb, the accommodation provider. The cult film 'The Matrix' of the late 1990s is a well-known scene where the most famous Morpheus of the Greek dream god gives Thomas Anderson the main character a choice between the red and the blue instrument. The blue pill would allow Keanu Reeves to impersonate Anderson to close his eyes, go to sleep, and live in a dream. Anderson chooses a red instrument that opens his eyes to see the real world as it really is. Today, we, the legislator of the Republic of Estonia, have exactly the same choice. We can close our eyes and pretend that there is no technology-based human-human economy in Estonia, ignore the fact that the collaborative economy is already here and is working, and more and more Estonian companies are willing to compete for success in the world. We can make more parking lots, build more roads and take away the opportunity to earn more from our people, banning the sharing economy, but we would not sail far with this machine-killing policy. The rest of the world would catch up with us and get ahead of us. Instead, Estonia should seize the opportunity to be a leader. Let us acknowledge that the collaborative economy is here to stay. The Internet cannot be turned off. Being prepared for innovation, we create the prerequisites for new economic growth and the opportunities it brings, leaving people the freedom to share their property and to earn more. I have often wondered what might be the things that people lack most. Having asked others that, I have come to the conclusion that these things are time and money. The collaborative economy and its convenient solutions offer both of us. Time to spend more time with loved ones, engage in hobbies and training instead of sitting in traffic jams, car washes or service, or building a garage for your car. Money, because the collaborative economy allows you to easily earn extra from your assets, which would otherwise stand unusable. We can see that the collaborative economy already offers people prices that are much more favourable than they have so far. It's in all sectors. We make the collaborative economy work for our own benefit, thus giving people more free time and the opportunity to increase their income! It's a choice here and now before us. I ask you to support the pioneering bill for the new economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U14	Thank you. Dear waitress, you have a number of questions. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U15	Good President! Good Kalle! The collaborative economy is certainly an interesting thing, but in recent press, Minister of Justice Reinsalu has made a destructive assessment of the draft. Among other things, he has mentioned that attempts are being made to change the wrong law and so on. Can we conclude from this that there's another crack in the coalition, now because of Uber?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U16	First of all, about that comment from the Justice Department. At the meeting of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Justice supported this draft. This letter was written to draw attention to the potential bottlenecks that the Justice Department officials noticed in the bill. The possibility of breaking the Constitution is certainly over-enhanced. The main point pointed out by the Ministry of Justice is that the requirements for taxi drivers are enshrined in the law, and also the requirements for drivers offering road transport should be written in the law. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we discussed these issues at the first reading sessions and reached a consensus that we are prepared to regulate them at the level of the law, and in itself this idea makes perfect sense. It should be noted, however, that the requirements that Taxify, Uber, Wisem and others impose on their drivers in order to be able to participate in their system as a service provider are far more stringent than those that taxi drivers are legally required to comply with. So if we want to equalize these requirements, we have two options. We can set minimum requirements according to what was discussed and processed by the previous Riigikogu, when we come to the understanding that this is exactly what a taxi driver has a good reputation and that these are the conditions that must be guaranteed to achieve this, or we can consider it right that thousands of consumers of travel-sharing services give feedback after each trip, which has resulted, for example, in Taxify removing a thousand taxi drivers from its system who had met all the requirements in front of the state but did not offer a high-quality service to the customer. This, too, is one way that we are writing these harsh conditions into a law that would have extremely great positive effects. The sharing economy and taxi services would then become better and more secure. We will certainly be discussing this in the Committee on Economic Affairs between first and second readings. There has been a consensus among all parties that requirements for drivers should be brought to the level of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U17	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U18	Thank you. Good waitress! You had very nice expressions. I certainly support the need to pave the way for a new economy, and all these other wonderful things. I'm saying, paraphrasing you, we can close our eyes and pretend that if the driver accepts the order electronically, it's not a taxi, but if he takes the order over the phone, it's a taxi. Actually, it's just a taxi for a regular customer. What difference does it make how you order, either Skype or SMS or some other route, in the end, one taxi all. Why do you still have to put the gaps in? When you are ready to harmonise these requirements, we will treat everyone in the same way and make exactly one requirement for everyone. All the more so anyway, as you say, Taxify and others apply stricter requirements. Then why is there this distinction, as if one taxi isn't a taxi and the other taxi is a taxi?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U19	No, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Then we'll get even better taxi service. This is definitely the place to choose. However, in essence, taxi services and freight transport are still different things, especially because the transport of goods can only be offered by using an electronic platform. Its assumption is that there must be a smart device that has been downloaded from an application linked to a payment instrument or credit card. Dealing cannot be ordered by telephone, there is no way to stop this car by hand, and there is no point in waiting at a taxi stop. This service can only be used through this system. Taxis remain subject to their own requirements. The cost of the journey is calculated by means of a taxi meter, the same electronic platform calculates the price in the case of conventional services, offering the expected price already before the start of the journey and offering the most favourable and direct route by means of a GPS application. Taxi drivers are not required by law. In my opinion, the main difference is that people expect some quality standards from taxi services and they know what kind of service they receive, but there are different expectations with regard to trade. Some people use road transport and some people use taxi services. We leave people the opportunity to use either one or the other, there is no need to equalise these opportunities in any way in order to create an illusion that these services are equal. Indeed, the only thing in which these services are similar is that people are moved from point A to point B. There are also different reasons listed at the level of the law as to why these services differ. So it is worth reading the draft and the explanatory memorandum carefully. Perhaps the main difference is that, in the case of a taxi, the meter and the characteristics of a taxi remain, the taxi has the right to drive on a public transport road and to stand at a taxi stop, it can be stopped on the street and the taxi service is a licensed area, but the collaborative economy has no such right, these cars cannot stand at a stop or ride on a public transport road, they cannot be stopped by hand or ordered in advance, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U20	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, What is the relationship between the terms of a conventioner and a classic worker? Looking at other areas by analogy, does what you are babysitting for the 21st century make a participant in the collaborative economy, to some extent, a worker, with the rights and obligations arising from it? What could be the status of such a person, self-employed or otherwise, rather than a job or a hobby?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U22	First of all, I will make a brief overview of what the Estonian taxi sector looks like. We have about 4,000 taxi drivers and they're usually brokered by taxi companies. 90% of these 4,000 taxi drivers are self-employed, i.e. they are self-employed or private limited companies, and they do not have any employee rights. In this respect, we are slightly different from the rest of the world where taxi drivers have taken on their wages. Here there is a very close resemblance to the collaborative economy, where driving distribution is mediated by the electronic platform for the delivery of conventional services and all managers are partners in this platform. This is mostly the same in the Estonian taxi sector. There's a taxi company that acts as an intermediary, takes a franchise fee from taxi drivers, a commission from every race, and offers taxi drivers only a kitty service, maybe the right to stand at a taxi stop and that's it. There's no other difference. Taxi driver is a self-employed person or a private limited company, he deals with his own accounting, pays his own taxes, arranges his own life, also installs a taxi meter in a taxi, probably for his own money. In fact, there is no difference in the so-called employment law of the service in the context of the relationship between the employee and the employer compared to the real life of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U24	Good manager! Good waitress! You're a great Yankee lobbyist. But because of the loss of corporate tax, foreign banks and other companies are taking hundreds of millions of euros out of this place, and now 20%, as I understand it, is finally going to go to the Americans. Can we not create such applications ourselves, so that this 20% will remain in Estonia as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U25	Taxify is the biggest taxi app in the Baltics, the biggest service provider. Uber is only one of the services that are on the Estonian market, all others have created Estonian smart entrepreneurs based on Estonian capital. I will, of course, take as a big compliment what you said and ask that if this money went to the Russians, would there be any difference here in your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U26	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In the meantime, I had a conversation with a driver in Uber who hadn't driven much yet, he had taken six trips, but five times the fee was paid in cash.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U28	Impossible!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U29	Well, it's not impossible, man told me that. How is it possible that the electronic platform provided such an opportunity? It seems that the reliability of this platform is still as great as that of the user of this platform. You can't expect any more from electronics. And it is, of course, possible to shut down the Internet, which has already been practiced by the Tax and Customs Board in the framework of the Gambling Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U30	This comment, I very much hope, and I am even 99.9% sure of it, is probably part of the science fiction, just as I have given the example of The Matrix, isn't it? Here in front of our house, a statement of support is currently taking place to legitimize the collaborative economy in Estonia. In front of the building there is also the CEO of Uber Estonia Enn Metsar. After listening to the answer, please, go and walk in front of the house and ask him if it's possible. I've been asking. If you're talking about the Uber platform, you can only pay with a credit card. You call yourself a car using an electronic platform, the car comes, you enter the car, you reach your destination, you step out of the car, and no action is done to settle for it, the fee will be deducted automatically. You're five paces away from the car, and there's already a bill in your mailbox for the ride. You don't even have to change a word with this driver because you've already been able to enter your destination on this platform. So of the services on the market, Uber is one that excludes cash settlement from all over the world. This is also an important forum for discussion in the law. I have discussed with the Chancellor of Justice that it is a great thing for the country in itself if there is no cash trading option in the services sector, because then it will be easy to monitor trade and collect all taxes. We have provided for in the law to be able to settle in cash as well. We know that another company providing similar services Taxify uses credit card payments, card payments and cash payments in parallel. You gave an example of Uber. I really don't think it was possible to use cash there, but it doesn't matter in today's context, because the law allows all these forms of payment. But I mentioned earlier that I would very much like the whole sharing economy to be cash-free. However, I have a question as to whether it is possible that we are very clearly introducing only one specific payment method. I definitely want to discuss with the Chancellor of Justice between the first and second reading whether this is possible in the Estonian legal space. I say, as a personal opinion, that I would like it very much, because then what is real in the taxi sector would be excluded, that tax standards are not very strong.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U31	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I join here with the earlier thought that these harsh rules could really apply to everyone, precisely the rules for the provision of services. But now the question. It's about franchise and commission, which you've been talking about a little bit. If we're talking about 20% on Uber and Taxify, maybe you'll know what the percentage of the commission for taxi companies is?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U33	There should be no intervention in this by the legislator, because in a market economy, every service provider knows how much he is asking for a commission. But if you take the axe rule, it's in the collaborative economy, as far as I'm concerned, 10.0% of turnover, i.e. the part that is taken for mediation, and that's all. According to this, you can orient yourself in this environment. I only know one taxi company, I don't name this company, whose website is upstairs in public, what are the conditions when driving this company's car? This price is 35 cents for every ride, if it's a normal ride, and 65 cents for the ride when the customer is picked up from the airport. Probably EUR 370 plus VAT is the franchise fee when the rental car granted by this company is used, and EUR 480 plus VAT is the franchise fee when driving a private car. In addition, all other obligations are to install a taxi meter etc. also to meet the taxi driver. So pretty big, I'd say, it's a fee for the taxi sector. But let it be the sector itself to arrange how they see their future and keep cab drivers in the system. It is still a relationship between a taxi driver and a taxi company and they must ensure that customers can order a taxi.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U34	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U35	Thank you. As one of the initiators, I certainly support the principle of this draft. We must become much more flexible in providing services in our small Estonian country. My question, however, is a little broader. I am asking about changes due to administrative reform. The classic public transport service is currently in local governments, how to say, such that the bus with one customer travels from point A to point B and the cost base is so large that it cannot be maintained. In the future, do you not think it would be possible to apply the so-called "agreement" principle in the provision of public transport services in rural areas, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U36	We call it a driving distribution, but 'trade' is really the term that we thought best to write into the law in order to define this service. But that was a very relevant question. The Estonian company Wisem, which is active in the collaborative economy, has already launched a service that brings together those managers who move from point A to point B in their system, just as it is in the case of Uber and Taxify, but they do it between cities. Perhaps again, instead of taking a bus from Tallinn to Tartu, you can check the system to see if anyone goes there by car, and then you can share the car and fuel costs. That's exactly what's happening within the county. I really think that it would be worth considering in some areas in the future the wider distribution of driving distribution along with the public transport service organised by municipalities or rural governments. Certainly not instead, but it could be next door so there's a transition. The same for Wisem, who is the first in this field in Estonia, probably already shares 150 trips a day. That's a lot. Every day 150 people use the same sharing economy service to move between cities in Estonia. This trend is growing all the time because these services are still coming to the market. Wasemile's founder is himself from Viljandi. This background was very clear: he himself lived in a small town and, if he needed to move somewhere further, the opportunities offered by public transport were unlikely to be sufficient. An interesting fact may also be that the same company is among the last seven to compete for new business ideas in the Brain Hunt competition. We wish him every success in taking part in this competition!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U37	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U38	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You indicated in your presentation that in the future, there is a plan to legitimise the sharing service in the area of accommodation. We know that accommodation companies are subject to relatively strict rules when they accept customers. Can you already specify what requirements might be expected for those who rent their real estate through the sharing service?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U39	No, I can't. This is a matter of broader debate. I will give an example from Brussels, where at city level I do not know exactly which unit level Airbnb was legalised. In particular, they regulated customer registration requirements. When you go abroad and arrive at the hotel, a paper form will be put before you and you will have to write down your data, put them in a cardette somewhere and keep them there for how long. All of this is to be able to combat terrorism and to detect the movement of potential terrorists and criminals. Airbnb's introduced these same requirements, as well as fire safety and other elementary requirements. But there's no way to equalize it. It is not reasonable to regulate the Hilton Hotel and apartment in Kalamaja, which is intended to be rented out to a person seeking accommodation services on an equal level, but, as I said, it is important to bear in mind fire safety, basic hygiene requirements and customer registration in order to prevent terrorists from using this service. Now for the most important and perhaps the most remarkable thing. I have been a member of the European Union Affairs Commission for six years, and every year we have come up with the topic that the registration of customers in accommodation facilities should be moved to a digital platform to have a single database. For example, if Liina Kersna has entered the database once, she should not be re-entered at the next hotel and should not be signed on paper every time. Airbnb just did it. There are always customers registered there anyway, registration is linked to a credit card, data is digital. Again, it sets a precedent and, in fact, paves the way for a traditional economy. I would say that Airbnb will be a much better partner to detect terrorism than any hotel in the future. For example, when President Obama visited Estonia a little while ago, his security team came here weeks, if not a month earlier, to check on the people who were in the hotels of Tallinn. They were all examined one by one. This is really the kind of thing that we can do better by using technological developments. This was just one example to illustrate the form in which this service could be legalised. But I am now agreeing on a time to meet Airbnb's European leader and exchange the impressions of how we could start regulating this service alongside driving sharing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U40	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U41	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, In which European countries has Uber been legalised? It is by its very nature the legitimisation of unfair competition and it is very easy to challenge it in court.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U42	It's not legalized yet, we're definitely the first country. I'm categorically different from you. This is not unfair competition in any way; it is an extension of transport services. I repeat what I said in my speech: let us not take this position in the Riigikogu that it is a struggle between drivers and taxi drivers and the taxi sector at all. Seriously. This is a fight between the collaborative economy and the sharing of cars and private cars. In this hall is Yoko Alender, who uses a good slogan 'Cities for people! '. I think it would be our duty in this Chamber to think about how we could really achieve that the cities would be more targeted at people, so that there would be fewer cars on the streets and fewer traffic jams. This research at Tallinn University revealed that 47% of respondents are willing to give up the second car of the family when the service becomes more accessible. Of course, it has a more favourable price than the current taxi service, and it is safer and more reliable. Why should we object? Instead of building Reid's way wider, we could build a park next to it. It was just a figure, I don't want to stop building Reid's road, but basically it is. Indeed, if 15% of the territory of the average city is stuck in the parking lot and if we can change it by making the sharing service more accessible to people, then it makes sense. I see no reason why we should object because perhaps some taxi drivers and, above all, taxi companies feel touched. There will certainly continue to be people who want to consume taxi services, and there will certainly be those who want to consume driving-sharing services. We do not need to start deciding for people in this Chamber what mode of movement they are allowed to use and what kind of movement they are not allowed to use.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U43	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U44	Thank you. Good colleague! In your speech, you said that the demands were harsh. Can you comment exactly on what new requirements will apply to those taxi drivers who are currently working and want to continue to do the same work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U45	Thank you, my good colleague. These requirements, which we impose precisely on one or the other, are not yet clear. We still prefer this option to ensure that everyone, both taxi companies and platforms, is subject to exactly the same requirements. Whether these requirements are set according to the standard that Uber and Taxify currently submit to their partner drivers, or by the standards that are currently in the Public Transport Act and which taxi drivers must meet, it is too early to say. As the initiator of the bill, it is particularly difficult for me to do so at the moment. The Commission's rapporteur can also be asked what the future might be like in his opinion. I think the right way is somewhere in the middle. If we really were to impose on taxi drivers the strict requirements that Taxify and Uber are making for their drivers, it would probably have a bad effect on some taxi drivers and would simply not be able to provide this service anymore. Let me give you some examples. The good reputation of a taxi driver shall be guaranteed if he has not been subject to repeated criminal penalties. However, in the case of a travel-sharing service provider, any criminal penalties and any mismanagement are excluded, and any higher speeding is excluded. So the requirements for taxi drivers in the context of the law, there are certain ranges of course, are considerably less stringent than those that are presented to the drivers. It's actually a philosophical question. I was also a member of the previous Economic Commission. This aspect was then overlooked, as the draft procedure earned this interest in really improving the quality of taxi services and making people feel safer. But only a month ago did we read the news that the cab driver stole the client's credit card, read it off the PIN and took it out of the account after his money, and only two months ago did we read the news that an exemplary road user noticed that the Tallink taxi was making very strange manoeuvres in traffic, and it became clear that the driver was in heavy drinking, etc. These examples can continue to be cited. After all, the law does not rule out that no taxi driver is driving drunk. But travel platforms have done considerable work for the country. After each journey, the service user provides feedback on the quality of the service. If the five-ball system has an average rating below 4,5, the driver will be removed from the system. People who use this service can always be sure that the managers who offer this service are highly valued, otherwise they would not work in this system. So there is a very large difference between the taxi sector and the collaborative economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U46	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U47	Thank you. Good waitress! You said nicely that we should not restrict the way people move. Indeed, speaking from a client's point of view, sometimes I want to order a taxi with an electronic device and sometimes I want to get my hand up by the road. It's the same from the driver's point of view, isn't it? It's like you're trying to say that they're different leaders. However, the movement is the same: it is the same driver and the same car and it is the customer. One who offers Uber's service, for example, can stop when someone gets his hand up by the side of the road. It's not forbidden in any way. I still don't know where that difference comes from when everything's the same. Why should they be regulated separately? You say that drivers have stricter requirements, but also some new company with less stringent requirements can start offering this service. Why can't taxi drivers' requirements be simplified to the level you've foreseen in the bill for drivers? Everyone would then have the same requirements, simpler, as you now see in the draft, and that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U48	Although the format doesn't allow me to ask back, I'll ask and you can nod. Are we losing all quality requirements and requirements for taxi drivers on good repute and non-punishment and discussing this between first and second readings? I rather, I have said this many times, I think you just didn't listen to my answers, I prefer what we discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs, that we set a standard on the basis of the requirements that Taxify and Uber, two major service providers in the market, have imposed on their leaders. We set a standard and we put these requirements into law. They agree, and we have also agreed with this in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Let's do this, then the service gets better for everyone. This precludes some new apps from entering the market with poorer quality conditions. Then it's okay. There is no question here; it can indeed be discussed between the first reading and the second reading in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would rather come with the requirements imposed on taxi drivers and drivers (the latter are not on the law level today, but, as the Ministry of Justice requested and as we have reached an understanding in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we will bring them together in the law) somewhere in the middle and regulate them at the law level. That would be the case, and people would be free to choose whether they want to use driving or taxi services. You said the leader was the leader. Of course, the driver is the driver, but 60% of the service providers do so less than 10 hours a week and 80% of the service providers do so less than 20 hours a week. So it is certainly not possible to compare them with professional taxi drivers. Of course, the driver who offers a driving-sharing service can stop somewhere along the road. He can stop there, but who's he picking up? In order to pick up someone, the client has to use an electronic platform, give an address, and call the car for himself. So what are you doing down the road? You can still stop, no matter what you want to do in there, but you can't pick anybody up because no one's invited a car. You can stop, but there's nothing you can do. I give a very simple recommendation to everyone who is critical: download these apps, use and try! Download Taxify app, you can use it to order both taxis and drivers. Use this service, you may be able to contribute more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U49	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Let's talk about standards and security. At the moment, it is as if we would agree to simplify certain requirements. The requirement for vocational training, as well as the need to be a certificate of such training, shall be waived. Does it not seem to you that the draft proposed in this form is still a step backwards from the point of view of passenger safety and we are increasing the risk factor?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U51	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Indeed, at the time of the draft, the initiators wanted to consider relaxing the requirements imposed on taxi drivers and taxi companies, but when we received an opinion from the Ministry of Justice, we were more convinced that the requirements for taxi drivers could be maintained at the same level as those for taxi drivers, if not stricter. This is where we have come to after the discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I think it's a reasonable way. This is also what the Ministry of Justice referred to. The best way to ensure the safety of drivers is that if someone, such as Dmitri Dmitriev, Kalle Palling, Toomas Kivimägi or Vilja Toomas, wants to use this service, they must give feedback after using it. It is the best tool for ensuring quality and security that cannot be replaced by any lawn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U52	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U53	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good colleague! In my opinion, your presentation was repeatedly run through a philosophical contradiction. Right at the beginning, in the introductory section, you talked about how many low-use cars we have and how irrationally it all affects the economy. In my opinion, there was a clear desire for a plan economy. This has nothing to do with the ideology of a liberal market economy, which your party seems to represent. There's been a lot of talk here. This law clearly creates unequal competition. We are talking about 60% of the drivers travelling for 10 hours and 80% for 20 hours, but the number of people offering this service is very high. If we have taxi drivers on the market who have to undergo a whole range of trainings, get a whole lot of permits and pay a whole lot of fees, and on the other hand there are a very large number of people who do not have to do it, it is not fair competition or the market economy. How can you not see this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U54	First of all, good Martin, there are very big philosophical differences in our thinking and everything, aren't there? I don't think we even have to argue about that. Your statements, your behavior and everything, I think, are very different from my behavior. But when it comes to equal conditions and a liberal market economy, this bill is precisely the advocate of a liberal market economy. If you have come by chance to examine this bill while reading the news, you will know that the relaxations in the terms of the provision of taxi services are included in this bill. I answered Dmitri Dmitriyev's question earlier, saying that the Ministry of Justice pointed out that since the last version of the Public Transport Act has only recently entered into force, it may not make sense to alleviate these requirements and rather to write down the specific requirements imposed on travel-sharing service providers in the law. Perhaps we saw from the very beginning that there could be some requirements in the law, both for one and for the other, and that the quality requirements for both groups must be equal. I fully agree with that, and I, as the initiator of the draft, do not see or want to create any inequality here. We are also looking forward to your suggestions. Come to the Committee on Economic Affairs, we will discuss these issues. Really, we're ready for this. We put quality requirements according to the level of service providers in the law, so that they will apply to everyone. I think that no one is against this, but it certainly requires a debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, so let us not get ahead of the events in this Chamber. But I think there's a lot of stuff in the bill's explanatory statement and it's worth getting to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U55	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U56	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Today, both you and some of the questioners have said a couple of times that the offeror of the contract is subject to more stringent requirements. You've probably mostly been thinking about the electronic feedback system, right? Uber has at least a grade of 4.5 in a five-ball system. I would like to ask you about your two arguments. Is the fact that 1,000 leaders have failed to meet this requirement and can no longer provide this service still based on facts or, I don't know, on the claims of the Uber leader? This quality feedback system is not regulated or fixed here. How is it ensured that Uber and Taxify, for example, will not give up such a system tomorrow after the adoption of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U57	I'm not sure I quite understood the question. But here really mentioned 1000 drivers who had in the eyes of the law fulfilled all the requirements of taxi drivers who offered their services through the Taxify platform, or Taxify had invited them to their own platform. After every race, the drivers give feedback. There are certainly a number of objective reasons for negative feedback: rude communication, violation of traffic regulations, speeding up, car disorder. I think you can count the reasons forever. If the average score in the five-ball system has been under 4.5 for a long time, the driver is told that he has such and such reproaches and is given a second chance. Each customer must also give reasons for his or her comment. It is actually an excellent tool to improve the service. This time, these platforms themselves have been put in place. But if we come back to the 1000 drivers who have been removed from the provision of this service today, even more than 1000 of them, these are part of the 4,000 taxi drivers who have a taxi licence and have met all the conditions before the law, but in the interests of customer satisfaction and the best service, Taxify has no longer allowed them to use its system, because customers have low-valued their service. Fortunately, there are many more taxi drivers with whom customers are very satisfied and who can continue to provide the service. With these 1,000 cab drivers, it's settled now, I hope. As regards feedback and the electronic platform, the law contains very specific requirements that this platform must meet. So there is no way that everyone can somehow invent a platform and come to offer it. Moreover, when we talk about the quality requirements that have already been repeated here and the requirements for drivers, which perhaps are not so much quality requirements, but the basic requirements, whether a taxi driver or a driver offering a driving service may be caught in drunk driving, whether he may be significantly speeded or punished in criminal proceedings, these are the things that are really the place of discussion when they are brought into the law. In the Public Transport Act, which is currently in force and has been done long and long, the previous Riigikogu must have done so, these requirements are somewhat less stringent. The good reputation of a taxi driver there means that he has not been repeatedly punished in criminal matters. There are also such requirements beautifully inside.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U58	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U59	Good manager! Good waitress! You keep saying that a lot of eternally awesome demands have been included in the law. Don't talk about the explanatory statement! Let's talk about the bill and the law. There are four points in the requirements. It talks about whether you are allowed to drive with a drunken head or not, as far as I know, no one in the Republic of Estonia is allowed to drive with a drunken head, but nothing else is said. Taxi drivers are trying to figure out that during the day, they drive under a taxi company, and in the evening they offer some services available from a smartphone. I'm asking you why we're only talking about taxiing. So tomorrow we're gonna do the same system in construction, so I'm gonna make an app, create a smartphone environment, and make no demands on the builder. As long as he's not drunk, that's all. I'm not checking if he has a license or one, or the other or the third. At the moment, there are no requirements for cars in the law. The law is a good thing, but it is so crudely put on paper that I think it should first be properly formalised and only then come back to the hall with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U60	I have been in Parliament for nine years. As far as I can remember, it would be good if Jüri Adams were in this Chamber right now, the matter is that a draft is presented first, the Bureau appoints a commission for this and the Commission deals with this draft and brings it to its first reading. Amendments are proposed between the first and second readings. I think, when I answered almost every other question, I have said that we in the Committee on Economic Affairs have come to the understanding that these requirements need to be clarified at the level of the law. So thank you for this proposal. Indeed, these requirements must be recorded in the law and brought to this hall before you at second reading. But that is what legislation in Parliament looks like: first reading, second reading and third reading. Amendments are proposed between the first and second readings. I guess that's it. Everything's fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U61	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, However, the alleged high quality requirements are not absolutely comparable to those for taxi service providers. They have to go to training, they have to have a license and a taximeter. So it is quite clearly creating unfair and unequal competition. When we read the economic effects of the explanatory memorandum, we see that nothing is produced here in detail. But we know that there are no taxi companies abroad in Estonia and the money earned by both taxi providers and even pirated taxis remains in Estonia. On Uber, 20 to 30% of it goes abroad as a commission. Our cabbies are also putting...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U63	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U64	... the VAT bill tip. Do you not think that this could cause economic damage to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U65	This is a very cool philosophical statement that even the black income earned by pirate taxis remains in the Estonian economy. Very good point! But I also said before that, as far as I know, and I'm talking about global practice, Uber really takes 20% of turnover on a commission, but since this company is established in Estonia, it pays all taxes in Estonia, all these partner managers pay their income tax in Estonia and this money stays in Estonia. Sharing economy companies, especially Uber, have taken the first step, knocked on the door of the head of the tax administration, Marek Helmi, and asked if they could talk about the matter and discuss it. There is a discussion on how to work together to ensure that national taxes are always paid on income from the collaborative economy. This initiative led to the fact that, at the beginning of February, when the declaration of revenue started, all Uber's partner managers could easily declare their income. It is only after this that taxi companies have started to take steps to improve tax revenues from taxi drivers and to strengthen tax standards for taxi drivers. I am pleased that the sharing economy and driving sharing are setting a precedent and are creating positive examples that tax receipts are improving. But speaking more broadly and philosophically, this is still a very big step in strengthening the Estonian state's IT display. Since regaining independence, we have been talking about Estonia's competence in this area, which we can export. I am thinking of the collaborative economy and the image of Estonia, which is already improving because we are here to discuss how this service can be legalised, so that these conditions do not discriminate against anyone and are such that all taxes earned on income are paid to the Treasury and this part of the transport sector participates in the national circulation. I'm not taking the position, but the head of the tax administration has claimed that there is no indication that the taxi sector is involved in the national cash circulation or, rather, in the national circulation, as he calls the money circulation. Let's talk about it, it's a matter of staying in a tax country. But the Tax Administration has offered the idea that the Estonian Tax Administration could collect the tax revenues of all Uber's leaders around the world and offer this service to other countries. Perhaps this is one of Estonia's ideas for the future that could be addressed in the field of export. Perhaps our public services, which we offer to our clients, i.e. citizens and businesses, are so simple that other countries do not have to build them themselves. We could collect these taxes for other countries. Perhaps, when we talk about this service, we will indeed open up a debate and provide an opportunity for this debate in the wider world. I don't know, maybe it's getting nowhere, but I'd rather feel like it is. Skype and I have revolutionized. I can't imagine us being invented by Skype, saying that the long-distance call that was made at the time from the payphone of the Estonian Telephone, Henn, are you listening? Somewhere in the corner of the store, inserting a phone card, equals demands, taxes and everything when I log in to Skype and make a long-distance call to New Zealand, for example. The meaning of long-distance speech changed, and the Estonians did this revolution. I think we have more to think about. Skype would not have been born if we had gone about this route, as taxi companies today offer, that sharing is when you can share a ride twice a day, that is, when you go to work and come from there. It would have been similar logic for Skype that two Skype calls can be made a day and the rest of the calls must be made via the Estonian Phone, because then the money will remain in Estonia and the Estonian Phone will have more turnover. The revolution would not have been born.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U66	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There's been apps before Uber, and I'm sure they'll come after that. Pretty much all cab drivers are driving three to five apps today. What makes you believe that apps that come after Uber or Taxify will cooperate with the IRS as much as Uber and Taxify today? What makes you think they'll cooperate with the IRS anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U68	This initiative has come from these companies themselves. Let's discuss it. This draft, which has been proposed, already states that the operators of the electronic platform, Uber, Taxify or any other platform, must allow the tax administration access to these data. These data refer to services provided and money moved through this platform. Perhaps every transaction that is made will leave a mark behind, even if it is possible to use different forms of payment. The mark is also left behind in Taxify. If you pay in cash, there's a sign that there was a ride and how much it cost. The IRS can always ask for this information. So far, cooperation with the IRS has looked like you're taking your time, and at some point, just a surprise surprise, a good tax officer knocks on your door and asks for an accounting report. However, Uber himself went to the IRS and said that he would simply make sure that people did not have to submit their declarations separately at all. Their proposal was to make an IT solution, which, if possible, if the person agrees, will send the information directly to the IRS if the person is a self-employed service provider, and the information on the income earned will then go directly there, just like all of us who fill out the income tax return for three minutes because the fields are pre-filled. Uber wanted all those partner managers who are self-employed and earn income to move the income data directly into the declaration. Its initiative was taken by these companies in the collaborative economy, and they have no reason to create an economy that is not based on tax standards, I find it hard to believe that they would like to do so. But we'll see. But at the moment, all these requirements for an electronic platform, how the tax administration must be able to access it and what data must be transmitted, are beautifully included in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U69	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U70	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm asking about the safety of the driver. How can we ensure that paedophiles, drunk drivers, fugitives, traffic hooligans do not get into the wheel? At the same time, the requirements for working and rest periods do not need to be complied with and the language requirement is not to be fulfilled either. In this situation, how do you think the quality of service will still improve for the passenger?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U71	Let's start with the language. We took the language requirement out of the Public Transport Act. The language requirement must be complied with in any case, but the Public Transport Act no longer regulates it in the sense it did in the past. This amendment was adopted here in the Riigikogu hall a month ago. Speaking of this situation, when a person is a criminal, a paedophile, or what you have mentioned, they exclude from this system the same requirement that this platform imposes on its partner leaders. Again, I have repeatedly said that these requirements are today for platforms themselves to regulate, but we are also prepared to bring them to the level of the law. So that's out of the question. But the greatest security of this service still ensures that if, for example, you, Tarmo Tamm, or Erki Savisaar, sitting in front of you, use this service, you will give a grade to this driver and to this service. After all, this is a comparison for the next customer and a token of whether this driver is good or not. Those managers who are not good and whose average rating is less than 4.5 will be removed from this system. This is a customer satisfaction-based system that I think is very good and is one of the flagships of a liberal market economy. It is impossible to regulate by law that if Tarmo Tamm, for example, if he drives Erki Savisaar, behaves nicely, observes traffic regulations, etc., but if he picks up Aivar Sõerdi, he drives, ignores traffic regulations, etc. But if you, Tarmo, have rushed, then Aivar Sõerd can give you an estimate of 2 or 1 and write down that Tarmo Tamm ignored the traffic code and acted very rudely. Any such comment will be taken very seriously and such drivers will be removed from the system. That is why this system is the spokesperson for the so-called liberal market economy, because it is not possible to regulate such a thing at the level of the law. [[Interjection.]] You're just in the first row. This is the so-called first line advantage, you are mentioned more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U72	Aivar Sõerd would like to say a recliner because his name was mentioned. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U73	Since my name was mentioned, I'm going to say yes to the reply that, as far as I know, I don't have any traffic offences in the register. But, of course, you can check it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U74	I was thinking of you as a service user. In the back seat, I find it very difficult to break the traffic code, unless you leave your seat belt unlocked, but I think it's also the job of the driver to make sure the seat belt is fastened in the back seat. Unfortunately, yes, there's no ticket in the back seat.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U75	Thank you. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U76	Thank you. Good waitress! In my hometown of Tori's hell mythology, there's an old-fashioned character. When asked what to do when nothing works or when a child is 15 years old and still can't read, he always said to make a new kid, maybe it'll do better. Now I hear the same thing: there are a lot of mistakes in taxiing, we haven't fixed them, but we're making a new baby, maybe it can read right now. There are a number of professions that require professionalism and where the use of volunteers may not benefit quality and may even become dangerous. I remember that when volunteering was discussed here in the rescue service, a good colleague, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, even pointed out that perhaps the Pig Egg Juku, who castrates the piglets, could also do a few things for the village doctor, for example, to take out a few appendixes. I understand that you praise the quality that is constantly improving. You could have told me that story before. But what's going to change, is it really just cash flow, that someone gets more money for their idea? Why should a new child be made if the previous one has not been taught to read?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U77	As an aside, I would first of all like to express the hope that Artur Talvik would be in his office, heard about the televised comparison with the volunteer savior, and it ripped his ear really hard. My ear did, because I think voluntary salvation is a very good initiative that helps to ensure the fire safety of people in small places such as Käru Parish, where my birthplace is, certainly. So let's not make fun of voluntary salvation in this hall. But this isn't about making a good Aadu, a new baby. This is the regulation of a service that is already on the market. People use this sharing economy service as a consumer and take advantage of the opportunity to provide it, earn extra money and share their time and car. Technological developments have brought a new way of providing transport services to the market. As I said in my speech and in my previous answers, this is not a fight or a dispute between the taxi sector and driving. It brings in a new dimension. People, rather than having several cars in their families, are willing to share their rides with people who want to offer a driving-sharing service. Let us not underestimate this opportunity and those people, such as the retired person I drove home from the airport on Sunday and who said that he wanted to earn another pension. Since he has a car and a pensioner has a lot of free time, he can communicate with people in this way and fully legally earns another pension. Why do we want to subjugate them with some kind of title, make new babies and some kind of boars and eggs, or what those things were there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U78	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U79	Good manager! Good waitress! As a wonderful lobbyist, you've painted porridge mountains and dairy rivers for us here. You also talked about families giving up their second car and the city where 15% of the land is under parking lots, the surface area of these sites is decreasing. But I'm asking you specifically as the initiator of the bill. If this bill is passed as a law, how many percent, for example, in ten years from now Tallinn will be under parking lots if it is 15%? The second thing: have you and the other signatories to your bill already given up the Tallink and Tulika taxi cards that all members of the Riigikogu have?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U80	I don't know, I haven't asked. I can tell you a story. The person who told me this story is not in the Chamber, but I am still saying it, it was also said in the Committee on Economic Affairs. A member of the Riigikogu, your party partner, ordered a taxi. He was identified and the cab driver asked why he was involved in legalizing this driving-sharing service. He politely listened to the cab driver, and then the cab driver suggested why use Uber or Taxify, take him and download the Taxiphone app. A member of the Riigikogu said that he once tried this Taxiphone service, but the car did not come. Then the driver answered nicely: 'Yes, you ordered this car to Toompea, there you use taxi cards. Look, this is worse for us. This in itself may indicate some kind of morality and understanding of what is a good service and how it is offered. I really hope that these are only a few examples if taxi drivers do not have a positive attitude towards members of the Riigikogu, because they use taxi cards and do not pay in cash. But that was indeed an example. It was one of your party associates from the Economic Commission who told the story.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U81	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! There's nothing new in this world. The sharing service used to be known as 'haltura', the musical men's language was the replacement instrument man 'body', and when I was young and beautiful now I'm only beautiful, there was such a thing as Autostop's checkbook. With a fingernail, you could drive around the Soviet Union, and you kept pulling another bonus out of that checkbook. After that, the driver got either gasoline or other benefits, not big ones, but he got something. One day, this Autostop stopped suddenly because the car stoppers, or thumb - stokers, began to disappear without a trace. Have you thought about this black version? I would give Tara so that this kind of thing would never happen in Estonia, but this option is real.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U83	First of all, the Haltura. The real situation is that this service is provided, that there are consumers who want it, and that there are providers who offer it. Our aim with this bill is to stop the savvy and create a service with clear requirements, with the requirement to pay taxes on this service and the income earned, to bring it to the level of the law. We're going to finish the hindsight and create one of the simplest ways to provide transport services to the law. I don't think there's anything to worry about. I forgot the other half of the question. Maybe somebody's gonna ask it again, or are they gonna give it a chance to ask the other side again? I was really starting to think about the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U84	The answer was exhaustive. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U85	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good waitress! We had a big fight here a few weeks or more ago for keeping the taxi drivers in Narva. There is nothing to do, no matter what was to read this bill or listen to these answers, it is quite obvious that, as a result of the law, taxicabs will be thwarted in Estonia, domestic capital will be thwarted, people's jobs will be thwarted. This does not seem to disturb the Reform Party at all. I see a serious double face compared to the Narva case. I'll be relatively clear: now, honestly, admit that you're just a lobbyist!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U86	What am I still arguing about with such a low-level policy in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U87	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U88	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I will try to ask my previous question again and more precisely. You very well described this quality system evaluation. I know it's a good system. But I don't read anything about this bill as if it were guaranteed until the end of time that Uber and Taxify would maintain such a system. That, in my opinion, is the question. Perhaps it is a conspiracy theory, but I dare mention the danger that if we have adopted this law in a suitable form for these companies, they may say one day that quality assessment is too complicated, cumbersome or costly, they may give it up and then this great thing will disappear. Shouldn't we legitimize it somehow?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U89	Thank you. I will respond very briefly, as I have repeatedly replied here: yes, we want to bring these quality requirements to the level of the law. Let's do it between the first reading and the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U90	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U91	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you for this thorough review. Innovation has always been very difficult to bring to the economy. History also remembers that when the cinema came, book publishers were worried that no one would read books anymore, when the Internet age came, it was thought that Manhattan would collapse and unemployment was the biggest problem when e-commerce came, then it was thought that shopping centres would disappear, yet Estonia was one of the European countries with the most shopping grounds. You mentioned that there is no regulation in this area anywhere else in Europe. What could be an international measure of recognition, a measure of recognition or non-recognition, precisely in the international context, that Estonia, with its small economy, can take the lead in this matter? What could be the result of this measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U92	Well, that's very hard to predict. If the same PricewaterhouseCoopers I mentioned appreciates that this industry is growing from 10 billion today to 350 billion, then neither can I predict where this reputation and image of Estonia as an IT-state, a country that accepts and supports innovation. However, the interest of foreign media in what we are doing here today at first reading is considerably greater than that of Estonian media. The Estonian Tax Administration, which I consider to be the most innovative tax administration in the world, cooperates with the world's most valuable start-up, valued at over $60 billion and operating in over 70 countries. If these two most awesome.. one of the largest and most valuable, and the other of the most innovative, have found each other, and in half a year the result is that all partner managers can very easily declare their earned income, then what I mentioned earlier is that this service could be offered by the Estonian Tax Administration and the Estonian State to other countries where Uber operates, which is already proposed to the Uber Strategy Manager, is a highly innovative idea. The Estonian state may earn some zero decimal percentage of the entire tax base and we have such a new opportunity to export services. So here, I think, it's hard to predict. But in any case, I predict that if Estonia is attractive to companies that want to test their technology and opportunities and find ways to easily pay off all national taxes, really, we have such fame emerging, I think that the benefits of the economy and the growth potential of the Estonian economy in general are great. Several colleagues have asked what it really is and whether it will do any good to the economy. I think it's very useful. Uber is setting the way in this area around the world. I would like to point out once again that the largest provider of the same service in the Baltics is Taxify, which has been invented and created in Estonia and has Estonian owners. Together they form a very powerful team to act at least in all the major cities of the European Union, competing, but working together, and why not in other parts of the world. So I wouldn't dramatize that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U93	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U94	Thank you. I enjoy your performance today as a role-play practice and I hope that some of our progressive colleagues will use fragments of this in the Moodle study programme to show how role-playing is played. It was particularly nice when you responded to Mr Koka and explained the procedural principles. You spoke exactly what the opposition usually says when the coalition votes out their drafts without listening to the arguments. So that's a great show. It was nice to commend Skype. I commend Skype, too, but usually when it's a little connected to the subject. Unfortunately, I cannot talk about the Kõru parish and the rescuers, because the format of the question demands that I also ask, and I will. The ruling coalition has always considered it important that things look better. At the same time, the percentage of unemployment in statistics was strongly reduced by the fact that the unemployed were diverted to taxicabs, while the quality of the service was downgraded. You're not afraid that your proposals might increase the number of officially unemployed in statistics, are you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U95	No, I'm not. But since the format of my answer allows a somewhat more creative and longer answer than the questioner may have anticipated, I will certainly take this opportunity. First of all, I want to congratulate you, Mr. Black. Indeed, your questions in this Chamber can also be cited as a positive example, because you always stay on the subject and your questions are decorated with very good words. It is a pleasure to listen to them not only while sitting on this board, but also sitting there in the Riigikogu hall near you. It's very enjoyable. But I'll come back to the question. Really, I'm not afraid of it. I will once again bring exactly the same examples that I have already given here. I recall an old gentleman's pensioner who wants to earn another pension by offering this service. People who have children at training should be waiting outside the door, but now they can go and offer a driving-sharing service at the time. Freelancers, freelancers in English, who offer design services somewhere in the architectural bureau, which is very project-based work, offer free-time driving-sharing services. I think it is very, very difficult to decide in advance who can provide the service. I would rather create opportunities for people than have free time and resources that they want to share. If the apartment is empty for a month because the person is on a trip somewhere, then it can be put up in Airbnb so other people can use it and the owner can ask for revenue. If the car stands on average 23 hours a day without use, I'll take a few hours off and I'll go offer a driving-sharing service. I'm setting the goal of earning exactly as much as six of my car leases, and I can accomplish that goal very easily. I recommend that you read the story of Toivo Tänavsuu, published in Eesti Ekspress about a month and a half ago, where he wrote that he earned a hundred euros a day by offering a driving service when he used the Uber platform. If it is multiplied by the number of days per month or by the number of days per week, then there may be a significant sum. But as I said, 60% of people still use this service option ten hours a week. So it's important too. It is particularly important to me that I have also written about it, and Maris Lauri from our group is working very hard on this, how to make life easier for small and micro-enterprises and how to direct people more towards entrepreneurship from paid employment. I think the collaborative economy is a very good way to help people take this first step. You've got some kind of resource, you've got a paid job, and you've got time. That's when you go and offer this service, earning an extra income alongside your basic salary. I think it's just great if we get more people into business so that they're their own employers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U96	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We have had a great deal of talk today, and it is certainly to be welcomed that the Tax Administration has put on the agenda the development of tax declaration related to the collaborative economy. This development is already working, but it's gonna need a little bit more work. The IRS will certainly be able to do this, given that we already have pre-filled declarations and e-Tax from 2000. I've done my own research and wanted to find out one thing, but I haven't been able to. So I ask what this order of magnitude may be, how many Uber leaders who take advantage of this opportunity that exists, the application that works to transmit the data necessary for taxation digitally to the tax administration for the purposes of filling in the tax return. I ask how many Uber leaders there are today. Give me a size level.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U98	Thank you. I don't think anyone's said that magnitude, but based on the fact that I've been asking and I've heard clues, I can tell you that there are still hundreds and not even a few hundred, but a lot more. But I would point out that this service is also illegal under the police press release a few months ago. We can still argue about that here. In fact, legality or illegality will ultimately be decided by the court should the case be brought before the courts. But if we give a boost here to the fact that this kind of sharing of resources and the possibility of additional services is entirely legal, that the provision of this transport service is also perfectly legal and regulated in the context of the Public Transport Act, the rights and obligations of both parties will be guaranteed, I think the number of service providers will increase significantly. Taxify has said that 80% of their journeys are made by taxis and drivers, and 20% by drivers, and the share of drivers is growing all the time. They have also nicely explained why they started offering the service of driving sharing. I think it's best to explain from them. The reason was that during peak hours and weekends, demand exceeded supply 15 times, which is why drivers were needed. There's no way it could have been solved just to get more cab drivers. The cab drivers would have been out of work the rest of the time. This ten hours a week, when 60% of drivers work, means that they work at peak hours when demand is highest. The demand was earlier 15 times higher than the offer. That's why Taxify started doing this service in the first place.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U99	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Kalle! We're talking about a legitimate service option here. In the meantime, there was a small discussion about whether or not cash could be paid using Uber. This discussion, at the same time, died or you actually killed it. However, it is possible to tip Uber's driver, Tallink's driver, Friend's Taxi and Marabu Taxi's driver. The coffee shop gives tips, it's legal or it's not. What do you want to do with it? The mama who sells paws on the corner of the street needs to break the trees. He's gonna take the guy on the bench for the store, and he's gonna break his tree for five bucks. So, what's this guy doing with five bucks? Does he have to keep track of it and fill out a declaration? A man may also say that he doesn't want a fiver. May the neighbor's wife bring him two beers. Is there any way you're going to legitimize that kind of tip and make some fun app for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U101	For God's sake, Estonia has a free market economy. Do it. I'll give you a nice tip when I use a cab, especially when I use a taxi card for work. Since the drivers are so upset that I'm using it, I'm giving them at least a significant tip. At the restaurant, really, I think it's nice to leave a tip. I don't know if they're declaring it anywhere or not. I think it's an elementary courtesy to have a tip for good service. However, this has nothing to do with this law. Again, thank you for the pleasure you have offered in two minutes for this very well staged and cool question. But the question wasn't really.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U102	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U103	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I wanted to ask my question on the other side, but I have to comment first. I don't know what it's supposed to look like to have cab drivers you want to pay with a card, so I wouldn't want to pick you up in any way. Were you all muddy or what was wrong with you? I've paid by taxi card, and I'm very happy to be picked up. When I say I'll pay with a card, it's been answered that, yeah, no matter what you pay, as long as you pay. But here's the other part of my question. The fingernail, or voting cheque books, and all these other things disappeared exactly when people started to disappear. Don't you think that Tara would give it to you so that it never happens so that this sharing service can be offered by some kind of pervert? Well, it could be some kind of pervert, the probability is completely there, it's not zero. Then the whole beautiful event is squirmed at once, and it's the bottom. Haven't you taken that into account? If you have counted, how do you intend to avoid it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U104	The best way to avoid this is the feedback given by customers, for example. That precludes someone from providing a bad service. I don't think it's possible to rule out a hundred percent of this, nor is it possible for taxi drivers. I will again bring the taxi driver who looked at the client's PIN when the client paid the card and stole the client's credit card, or the cab driver who was driving drunk, and when an exemplary fellow road user noticed that the taxi was making strange manoeuvres, the taxi driver was removed from the traffic. There are examples. I don't think there's a hundred percent chance of stopping it. However, if the service is provided through electronic solution platforms, the possibility of feedback after each race will significantly increase the likelihood that the journey will be safe. Again, I'm going to use the example of the old gentleman whose car I was driving the last time. It was really a very positive experience. He said he's been asking people, especially women, why they're using this service. He's been told that if they use Taxify or Uber, they'll be much more confident that they'll make it from point A to point B nicely if they call a kitty somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U105	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At the moment, we are particularly discussing the sharing of driving, but it is certainly not the only area of life where such an innovative approach is possible. Can you name more areas of life that we could regulate or even need to regulate so that we can offer these services? Could we take a different or even more radical approach, relaxing and abolishing, at times, strict requirements for service providers so that new providers and new services will be able to enter the market more easily in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U107	Yeah, I agree. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, there was also a debate on how to make it easier for people to participate in the collaborative economy in many other areas. The greatest threat is always the one, as it has actually been from this hall, that the collaborative economy is being over-regulated. Of course, basic requirements must be guaranteed. Before I mentioned, for example, the fire safety requirements of accommodation facilities and the requirement to register people so that terrorism can be combated. But let's imagine a home restaurant that participates in the collaborative economy, for example, if there is a platform through which you can choose a place in a home restaurant. So are we going to ask the home restaurant for these separate taps and all the other things we're going to demand from the restaurants? Are we going to demand that this Kalamaja apartment that you want to rent in Airbnb is met with the same conditions as the Hilton Hotel? As far as I know, the first obstacle is that the stairs leading to the second floor of the Kalamaja house are made of wood. After all, we do not want to impose the requirement that the stairs should only be concrete, because then Kalamaja apartments would be automatically excluded from participating in Airbnb. I believe that these regulations must respect the limit of reasonableness. I think there are at least two important things. Firstly, consumer demand is driving this sector. Secondly, tools have been developed to help each consumer provide feedback on the service. They're in Airbnb, in driving distribution, and in these restaurants as well. This does not directly concern the collaborative economy, but this feedback system, but when I am abroad, I always look at TripAdvisor for which restaurant has received the best feedback. This quality criterion is the result of feedback from people. It's the same with hotels. I know that the Marriott Hotel or the Hilton Hotel, for example, is at one level all over the world. A distinction needs to be made as to whether we guarantee quality with certain requirements or whether each customer provides feedback. If the feedback is negative, no one will come to this apartment to spend the night, or no one will use the driving-sharing service provided by the driver. I would like these services to become accessible to people and people to offer them more. There are two more important things. We are directing people more towards entrepreneurship, and people are starting to wonder which of their inefficient resources they could earn additional income from. Thirdly, the interest of the State should be that taxes have been paid. The collaborative economy is now clearly strengthening tax standards. Let's look at the taxi sector. The collaborative economy has taken the initiative to find a solution to how taxes can be paid nicely. The same is true in all other areas where the collaborative economy is expanding. After all, all the money travels there electronically and it is very easy to cooperate with the tax administration and to pay those taxes automatically.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U108	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question is precisely about the resistance of taxi drivers. Have you met these representatives and discussed their arguments either in the Commission or before you made this draft? Why is there no result? I understand that they are still very opposed to this bill. If you have met them, can you tell us what these arguments are and what you intend to reflect in your draft? The question to be clarified is whether, according to your idea and the draft, the drivers and taxi drivers are in an equal position and the conditions that are presented to one and the other are the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U110	I'll start at the end. It's been said many times. Ask Toomas Kivimägi, who is the leading manager of this bill. But as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the initiator of the draft, I have come to believe that there is a consensus in the Committee on Economic Affairs that it is also necessary to bring requirements for drivers to the level of the law. That's one. Your second question, I think, was about the proposals of the Taxi Trade Union. No, we have not met, but it is planned to meet between the first and second readings when it is time for the amendments to be tabled and included. It's totally planned, and we've got those letters. There have been meetings in the political groups, and our group will meet tomorrow with the Taxi Business Association, but this is a side-by-side activity. It is up to each group to decide who and when it will meet. More importantly, there is a very broad involvement in the Committee on Economic Affairs, with representatives from the whole sector being invited. You can ask Toomas Kivimägi for more details. I remember two of the main arguments. One is the question of employment, that Uber drivers should be classic workers, as should taxi drivers. But 90% of taxi drivers are self-employed, they are self-employed or private limited companies, so they do not have an employment relationship. The collaborative economy is here in exactly the same position as the taxi sector. Another problem was tax receipts. I think it was also said on Thursday by the Cab Association in its press release that we have really been looking for ways to improve the tax receipts in the taxi sector, but we have always come somewhere in front of the wall. Since companies in the collaborative economy have taken this initiative and started working with the tax administration, action must be taken to ensure that the taxi sector also comes with it. The head of the tax administration has offered as an idea that maybe the future is an app-based meter, from which data on turnover is automatically transferred to the tax administration, and everything is simple. We can also consider bringing this law to the level between the first reading and the second reading. That was a very relevant question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U111	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U112	Thank you. My question is based on Eiki Nestor's last question and your answer to it. As one of the initiators of this law, by listening to this debate today, I have a question for myself and for you. In fact, it takes a very large part of this debate here to explain why we are dealing with the so-called redefinition of the existing thing. Many believe that the concepts of historical importance, even public transport, are very clearly established here. Wouldn't it really be necessary to have a basic law on the sharing economy so that if we were to create a whole new thing, we wouldn't get caught up in old rhetoric? This could also serve as a basis for other sectors of the collaborative economy in order to find universal solutions, as this debate has not yet been held in the world parliaments. I have Googled and know that there have been drafts that ban different parts of the collaborative economy. But don't we need a new base law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U113	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, We've been here for over two hours to hear some eloquent lobbying for one company. At the same time, you also admit that the bill is completely crude, because you are always talking about proposing improvements. In fact, it would not make sense to come up with such a incomplete and raw bill at all. But you're talking about environmental protection and how it improves the fact that 47% of people are willing to sell their car.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U114	Thank you. I don't remember if you were in the hall at the time or not when I gave Aivar Koka a brief summary of the stages of the procedure. I repeat that. There is first reading, second reading and third reading. Amendments are proposed between the first and second readings. Today's debate in the Chamber is, in my opinion, a brilliant basis for understanding what type of amendments these could be. I dare say that 90% of those fears that have come out of the question are lost between the first reading and the second reading. You can also ask Toomas Kivimägi nicely. The composition of the Economic Commission was fully prepared to put these issues into law and to regulate them precisely. This does not in any way make this service worse or better. This service is what it is, and this service is of great quality. So let's get this over with and finish this bill. Do not object to this, we are introducing amendments and we are the first country in the European Union to regulate this area. I've been talking so much about dimensions and meanings here that I'm not going to repeat it in terms of saving time. But yes, the procedure of the Riigikogu means reading three, and there is still an opportunity to table amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U115	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Of course, the concerns of taxi drivers about amending this law are not new. When we look at the world, we look at Europe, we see that taxi drivers have been in court repeatedly against the road to trade. So far, they have not won, but their concerns are understandable. We talk all the time in this Chamber that, between the first and second reading, we review these requirements and write them down. But as the initiator of the bill, you have certainly looked into the wider world, what experiences and backgrounds are like. You have repeatedly stressed here today that Estonia has the opportunity to be the first country in Europe to legitimise this matter. What is the reason that no other European country has come this far? What experience is there in other parts of the world? How has Estonia come into such an honorable situation that we can really do this first?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U117	Firstly, because people are probably accustomed to using a little more e-solutions here than people from other countries, especially in their dealings with the country. A "service provider" and a customer approach such as our state as a service provider and a citizen as a customer does not exist in very many countries. Indeed, we get a lot of things done with the state using e-mail channels. I think it's perfectly normal. It is a human right that you can communicate with the state via a smartphone or a computer screen. That's one. I think that's the reason. But in the classical sense, I think the Estonian taxi sector is very much similar to the sharing economy when compared to the situation in many other countries. In the old European countries, a taxi company hires taxi drivers who are subject to all kinds of labour law provisions stemming from the law. In Estonia, the taxi company has a cooperation agreement with taxi drivers who are their own employers, i.e. private limited companies or self-employed persons. In fact, labour law does not apply to them. Taxi drivers have also raised the argument that how can Uber's drivers be placed in such a disadvantage that labour law does not apply to them? We also do not have labour rights for taxi drivers. 90% of taxi drivers are in a completely different contractual relationship with the taxi company. I'm saying the taxi companies themselves have put them in this disadvantage. On the other hand, it is normal for people to earn their own income. I think that, in the end, it will, in particular, go back to the conflict between taxi companies and the collaborative economy throughout Europe. It is likely that taxi drivers, when they see greater potential in the collaborative economy than in taxiing, or vice versa, in taxiing, with greater potential than in the collaborative economy, will choose one option.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U118	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. performer! First of all, you did not answer Henn Põllea's question about how much personal car has been abandoned in other countries. Secondly, thank you for the beautiful mention of our group. At the same time, however, I would like to say your unethical expression about our group. It is strange to see that more people in our group are watching you perform than in your group, with very few members listening to such a high-level person.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U120	Yeah, look, we have an innovative group, a lot of people are watching a transfer on a smartphone, and they've already asked their questions. I really apologise if I hurt your group in any way before. I just wanted to point out the style of Martin Helme's questions and the fact that he has decided to hurt and insult a very large part of the Estonian people with his last statements. I would not like to give an example here of his words about Marina Kaljuranna, which insulted me, and I think a very large part of Estonia and a very large part of this hall. A very large part of this hall doesn't want to be like Martin Helme, which is why I wanted to bring it out. But a lot of people in this Chamber will certainly want to be similar to you, Raivo, Uno and Arno, who you can always, despite your differences, different views and critical situations, which may be in society and why your heart really hurts, remain polite, but Martin Helme cannot even start politely.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U121	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Sometimes people say that the future will come to our yard sooner than we can imagine. As we know, there are many cities in the world where robot cars are currently being tested. They exist in Sweden, the United States and perhaps elsewhere. The main question with robot-controlled cars is who's responsible if anything happens. I apologise if I repeat what has already been mentioned today, but does motor insurance cover the whole situation or the risks that may arise in traffic?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U123	Good question. In this, too, we want to find out between the first reading and the second reading. My first impression is that let those who insure, and those who wish to insure, agree on it. There is currently a separate insurance product for taxis. I think that also for drivers, insurance companies are creating separate insurance products. We will listen to the insurance companies and their proposals. I don't know if we should regulate it in any way or not. The American practice is this, I'll make it wooden and red that just sets the coefficients: private car coefficients are 1, taxi coefficients are 2, and the drivers coefficient is 1,5, so it's somewhere in between. Maybe we can get to that in Estonia, but I would like to get a proposal on this from insurance companies. I don't know what to say right now, but we definitely have to look at it between the first reading and the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U124	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U125	Thank you very much. And thank you very much for the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U126	The Commission's rapporteur is Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U127	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs has discussed this draft three times: on 7 April, 11 April and 12 April. The second debate took place with the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to congratulate all the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs without exception for being very pragmatic and innovative people. I dare start by saying that this idea or initiative to ban this new modern form of enterprise and thus restrict freedom of action has never been on the table. Almost all members of the Commission have believed that this is an area that needs regulation at law level. How much and to what extent to regulate, of course, we have had different opinions on this, as has been the case today in this Chamber during this debate. Perhaps a brief overview of what has taken place at the Commission's meetings. Firstly, at the meeting of the Economic Commission on 7 April, Kalle Palling gave an overview of the draft. His report was three times shorter then than today's report here. However, since the substantive views he expressed today are no different from those he said in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I will not repeat his introduction in terms of saving your time. Secondly, the Commission meeting found that people providing sharing services are earning extra money alongside the main job and this is certainly a welcome opportunity to earn additional income. A separate question in the debate was how to define the driver after all. Perhaps one fundamental question that needs a very clear position and an answer is whether or not to limit the volume of the service. De facto, let's say, it is now the case that 80% of people providing driving-sharing services via the Uber platform provide this service less than 20 hours a week. In my opinion, this is a matter of principle. To put one argument in favour of limiting it in time, this argument is more in line with the nature and principles of driving distribution. A liberal view of the world, of course, speaks against restriction. The fact that, for example, if we limit this volume in 10 or 20 hours a week, we will deprive current taxi drivers of the opportunity to start providing services on the basis of this platform. That is a very fundamental question. I think that the further content and treatment of the draft also depend very much on the answer to this question. I myself tend rather to consider limiting the volume of the service to some extent. Then there is one other thing besides the five-six that separates the driving-sharing service or the conventional transport from the current classic taxi transport. There were also doubts about the profitability and competitiveness of the sharing service. If part of the fee received for the journey is to be paid to the platform, part of the money is to be taxed, and fuel and depreciation is to be paid, it is indeed a question. But I don't think the Riigikogu has to answer that, rather, it's a service provider issue. In this context, it is a problem that, when a service is provided as a natural person, the current law does not allow the costs associated with the provision of that service to be deducted. Indeed, then the competitiveness of this service becomes quite questionable. The question is also whether this service is offered below cost. Perhaps not all depreciation costs have to be included in the price of the service because the person also uses the car for his or her personal needs. But there is no reason to deny that in a highly competitive area such as taxiing, current prices may not even reach the cost price, i.e. they are below cost. So the competition is quite intense. The question arose as to who will supervise the provision of this service, in the case of a sharing service or an arrangement. If, in the case of classical taxi transport, let's say, the municipality is still one of the important supervisors or the new idea is that this should be done by the intermediaries of this service, i.e. taxi companies, there really is no specific regulation in the draft. It's basically a different approach, we're still assuming it's a self-regulatory procedure. At present, there is no point in creating significant additional supervisory institutions. Then there was the debate about whether a separate form of enterprise should be created for this form of enterprise, different from those that we already have. This is once again a very fundamental and important issue. I share the view expressed by Eiki Nestor that we are making a very serious mistake in trying to force new business models and technology into the framework of existing business models. In my opinion, this would be the end of innovation. Theoretically, we have two choices. One of the options proposed in the Committee on Economic Affairs is that of a micro enterprise, i.e. a form of enterprise to make it as easy as possible for an entrepreneur to declare income and to deduct costs. It would be so easy that no one would have to hire an accountant for that. If I do this ten hours a week, there's no reason to start paying an accountant. Such a simple system should be created. The second option, which is more in favour of Marek Helm, the Director-General of the Tax and Customs Board, is to update the forms and possibilities of declaring the income of a natural person and to make it easier and more liberal for those who are self-employed or OÜ. Indeed, there are two options: either liberalising existing forms of enterprise in view of this new possibility of providing services, or considering creating a new form of enterprise. Very much has been said about the very fundamental question of whether we should equalise classical taxiing and driving. I am categorically opposed to equalization. These are different things in nature. I am pleased that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has taken the view that they are different. The differences begin with the fact that, in the case of conventional services, the ordering of the service takes place only through the digital platform. I dare say Kalles a little more strongly, and I say that the driver who is driving the drivers of the deal must not pick up people from the street or from the cafeteria or from the theatre of Estonia; he does not have the right to do so; he would act illegally in doing so. This carrier shall only carry out regulated transport on the basis of orders received via the electronic platform. The second difference that I referred to at the beginning is, in my opinion, that this is, above all, the possibility of additional service in addition to the main work, which is not the main activity, although there are different solutions. For example, it is possible for the UK to provide this service as a basic work through the same electronic platform. Perhaps one more thing that really distinguishes these things is the same feedback system that Kalle repeatedly pointed out. This is one of the most important quality guarantees. I dare say that unacceptable drivers can naturally occur both in taxiing and among the drivers involved in freight transport, but I would argue that in the long term, the quality of the work of the managers of the collaborative economy is somewhat higher than it is currently in taxiing, mainly thanks to feedback. But I'm not that critical of taxiing at all, I wouldn't say it was yesterday. I myself have not made a single ride with the contractor. I'm still using the classic taxi service now and still. So I think that a very fundamental issue is, in particular, choice and freedom of choice. Who wants to be guided by the standards that apply in taxicabs, uses a taxi that wants a different approach, uses a trade deal. We had a second meeting with the Committee on Monetary Affairs; we met with Mr Marek Helm, Director-General of the Tax and Customs Board. He began his speech with Uber operating in 70 countries and 400 cities. I very much welcome the Tax and Customs Board for its innovation and flexibility. They have already actually created a series of natural persons for the declaration of the income generated by conventional trades. I think it is very fundamental and important to create as simple and understandable platforms as possible where revenue can be declared. It is already possible to do so on a natural person's tax return today. At present, there is also the possibility of declaring income for people providing a similar service as self-employed persons or OÜ. As far as taxes are concerned at all, it may be important to say that in theory, the Tax and Customs Board has the opportunity to obtain, figuratively speaking, a direct link to all the services provided through these new platforms, whether Uber or Taxify. But actually it isn't, it sounds maybe a little surprising, the purpose of the Tax and Customs Board to get all the information. I think that the approach taken by Mr Helm is also innovative and innovative: paying taxes is, above all, a hallmark of strong tax standards and civic duty. He pointed out that if the payment is more than EUR 6 billion each year, only EUR 25 million would be added on the basis of decisions taken by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, meaning that more than EUR 6.2 billion would be paid voluntarily and only EUR 25 million would be called compulsory. 25 million is, of course, very large money, but it is quite small compared to 6.3 billion. This meeting also spoke of a separate form of entrepreneurship. As I said, the Director-General of the Tax and Customs Board is in favour of modernising existing forms of enterprise, so that they correspond to the nature of the service and make the provision of the service as simple as possible. One of the problems that could be considered was that, if this service is provided by a natural person, the bill or check written by him, if we can say so, is not acceptable as a cost document for the customer of the service. This is definitely a troubled place to think about. If we still leave the possibility to provide this service as a natural person, without having to be a self-employed person or an OÜ, then consideration should also be given to the possibility of recognising the so-called invoices submitted by a natural person, the cost documents that the customer can reflect in his costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U128	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. I'm interrupting the report. You have six minutes and 25 seconds left. I have a procedural task, and I can't do it without interrupting you. Thank you, Toomas Kivimägi, for your understanding! Honourable Riigikogu, the Reform Party Group has proposed to extend the plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to extend the working time of today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 40 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 18 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. The session has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Dear Riigikogu, we will continue the presentation of the Commission in the debate on the draft 188. Please, Toomas Stone Mountain!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U129	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Thank you for helping me fill the hall with the crowd again! It's emptying pretty fast, but it's okay. The serious issue that I would like to discuss is one of the key words in quality requirements. This is the same good reputation that has been reflected in the Public Transport Act. The same principle has been transferred to this draft law, so that it also applies to those who provide services as mediators. In my opinion, this is very problematic. I propose that the Riigikogu consider its feasibility. We say that if you are not criminally sanctioned, then everything is fine, but I think it is very little for a good reputation to be guaranteed. I think that serious consideration should be given to how useful this point, or at least good repute, as such, can be here. If we include in the law a provision that a taxi driver and a person involved in the carriage of goods must not be punishable by criminal penalties, it is perfectly understandable, but to say that if you have not been punished in criminal proceedings, you will in any case have a good reputation, in my opinion, a very simplified approach. I think that it would be worth considering how practical and rational it is to say so in this draft. A very meaningful position on this draft has been shaped by the Ministry of Justice, perhaps even by the most critical, from the side of the government. Their first question of principle is whether it makes sense to regulate this issue by means of the Public Transport Act if the draft states that the public transport law does not apply to this service. In my opinion, there is a complete contradiction here, but at the same time I do not see another place where this service is regulated, although the Ministry of Justice has proposed that it be regulated in the Road Transport Act. But let's get rid of the Road Transport Act, it says, "Passenger road transport is regulated by the Public Transport Act. ' I think it says very clearly that the place where it should be regulated is the law on public transport. A separate issue is whether or not we want to subject this service to taxicab regulation. As I said, however, these services are sufficiently different, which is why we should simply find another formulation and another approach, but the place where it is regulated could, in my opinion, be and should be the law on public transport. The second observation is a nuance, but it still involves significant financial expenditure. In particular, the Ministry of Justice has noted that the proposed draft abandons the obligation to carry a vehicle card, also in taxiing. In the case of a self-employed person, it is not actually possible to deduct costs or remove the VAT liability, so that serious consideration should be given to how the law regulates the possibility that it would not be so impervious. Another issue is from where business starts, which requires separate regulation and registration as an entrepreneur. This is also, by the way, the place where I say that determining the volume of the service is, in my opinion, very important. Indeed, if this service is provided 40 hours a week, I do not think it is right to say that it is not entrepreneurship, but if it is done 10 hours, perhaps 15 hours a week, then it is perfectly understandable that it is not entrepreneurship. This comment has also been made by the Ministry of Justice. This should be considered seriously as the current Commercial Code provides for the cases in which registration as an undertaking should take place. Another thing that the Ministry of Justice pointed out is the same principle of equal treatment that I remember from my studies, but now it has become a newer and perhaps more modern name, which is now called compliance with the fundamental right to equality. This is one of the key issues that classical taxi providers have also put forward. In my opinion, there is a very correct solution to this, as Kalle suggested. The basic thing that has been said is, just as those drivers who provide services in today's Uber or Taxify system would not have been subject to any requirements, contrary to the taxi drivers who are subject to legal requirements. I think that the most appropriate way to resolve this contradiction is by introducing in the law also requirements for drivers working as a contractor, analogous to the requirements for taxicabs. This is not really a problem because, as Kalle Palling suggested, most of these platforms impose stricter conditions on drivers than those imposed on taxi drivers by the legislator. This has, however, been one of the main concerns. I am certainly not in favour of resolving this in the same way that the Ministry of Justice has offered to abolish these requirements at all. I think that this would also be unfair and unfair in relation to the previous composition of the Riigikogu, because I think there were three or four years of work and these requirements were brought into that law with the aim of ensuring quality. I do not think it would be reasonable to abolish the requirements; rather, it should also be considered to impose requirements on those managers who provide services through these platforms. In conclusion, if you now have the understanding that the Ministry of Justice does not support this draft, the letter signed by Minister Reinsalu says that the Ministry of Justice supports the initiative of the members of the Riigikogu, but considers that the draft requires further analysis and calls for consideration of the above proposal. The draft is also supported by the Government of the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U130	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U131	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! How did the idea of initiating the bill come about, perhaps you could enlighten us a little bit? Did the Americans come to you or did you go to them? But taxes have been spoken for a long time and I simply ask how social tax is paid, whether this service is free or how it is done. The fact that data on service providers are received by the tax authorities is clear. I think we're done with the income tax. How do social tax matters work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U132	Now you really opened a certain box. This is, in my opinion, a question that we will have to discuss quite a lot in this Chamber in the future: what is work at all and what kind of tax is paid on what activity, especially in the case of a natural person. If we are talking about the fact that travel-sharing service providers can be both natural and legal persons, it is easy to pay social tax for legal persons. The self-employed have this quarterly tax, plus some percentage of income earned. In private limited liability companies, the part of the remuneration paid by a legal person to himself or to its employees is subject to social tax. What kind of income of a natural person is subject to social tax and which are not, in fact, would require a wider debate. Based on my knowledge, partner managers still prefer the possibility of being a legal person, i.e. providing this service, being a self-employed person or a private limited company. But the idea in itself is that people actually use this service as both consumers and managers, but there is no regulatory framework for it. If, due to technological developments, regulations no longer correspond to reality, this area must be regulated. Indeed, the choice is also that we ban such a service, but as I said in my speech, it would be living in a dream. It wouldn't mean that people would switch their smartphones back to 5110, it would just leave us, I think, a little weird, especially thinking that we've been developing the image of the e-state very seriously for the last 25 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U133	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U134	Here's the question. Should we not take another step in our law? When everything was clear in the old economy, it was a natural person or a company, it offered a service and we paid him a fee, then in the collaborative economy the customer also pays, but in fact philosophy is different: he shares the costs with this service provider. If we try to force all these new opportunities in the collaborative economy into that old economy, we will be in trouble, whether with social tax or something else. Should we not, in business law, create some sort of clarity for the development of the sharing economy, so that there is not a self-employed person or a company here, but something else entirely?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U135	It was also in the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs that perhaps there could be micro-enterprises or something else. But we got to the point that fine, a good idea, we're considering it. I'm sure it's worth considering. This has been discussed for a long time here, especially because people would take this first step towards becoming entrepreneurs with a lighter heart. Today, however, very many are still intimidated by this huge amount of accountability and bureaucracy. It's also a myth in many ways. In my opinion, in recent years, very many steps have been taken to reduce red tape, and they are still being taken, we are talking about a zero bureaucracy programme, etc. In my opinion, the creation of a micro-entrepreneur status in business law is an idea that is worth considering. I myself wrote an opinion article about a year ago. This is particularly true for all start-up companies. Last week, Sten Tamkivi also made a post on Facebook, where he wrote about the start-up tax ceiling. I am quite willing to consider that in the first few years when a micro enterprise is still growing and developing, it would have a different tax regime. But it's a completely different issue. I congratulate you on this question, because there is, in fact, something that we should be discussing in this Chamber. The question of a good colleague Raivo from the other corner of the hall was also correct. In the 21st century, employment relations are probably something other than those we saw as employment relationships 20 years ago. Using the words of Eiki Nestor, it seems to me that we want to push modern forms of work into the old framework, primarily because of the guarantee of cash flow in our health insurance system and the social system, i.e. social tax, should be paid. But I'm not sure it's a sustainable approach to the end. At this point, we do not even have the point of talking about the ceiling for social tax, because we are already a little behind in this regard. But once again, this is a completely different issue that we are definitely discussing, although I would support myself to make it easier to keep a self-employed person and a private limited company. Also, I think the IRS has some ideas that it would be such an automatic thing, so if you were to do your accounting in the e-environment they created there, you wouldn't have to report the financial year, pay the accountant or do anything. The state offers you this whole service beautifully, and it's only up to you to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U136	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U137	Family's other car.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U138	To compare how many people in the countries where Uber is already active have given up their personal car.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U139	That, too, is an idea to consider, although I would be cautious about this idea, but I certainly would not say no. I'll give you an example from your own specialty. When we talk about the general logic of equalisation, Pädaste Hotel and some apartments in the Old Town of Tallinn will never be a "equal accommodation." I think if we wanted to equalize them all, we'd be stuck. That is why this idea of a special law maybe even be good, although we have kept this line to write laws easier and less red tape, and in order for the new laws to be rather less, we are modernising the old ones. Maybe we'll go this way instead.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U140	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U141	Thank you. In a democratic country, it is common practice that legislative changes are discussed with relevant stakeholders. The lobby is not only a lobby group for the sorority, but certainly also taxi drivers who are protesting against the unfair treatment of the country today. A large number of taxi drivers have gathered on the front of the Riigikogu and on the street until Tõnismäe, who have concerns about this law. Do you know what their main concern is and what your message is to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U142	First of all, there was also a whole lot of people here this morning who supported the fact that the Riigikogu is engaged in the collaborative economy. As I explained before to my colleague Aivar Koka, there are certain procedures in the Riigikogu, according to which three readings are foreseen. We in the Committee on Economic Affairs have planned to have a broad involvement between the first and second readings. We invite all the interest groups to make their proposals and opinions heard at the table. So democracy and inclusion are guaranteed. But I'd like to ask the cab drivers what their problem is. I was live in this morning from the Hall of Hellovision, and there was Lembit Poland, the representative of the Cab Drivers' Association, whose ten-minute speech never came out of what he actually had against this law. Certainly this sector is changing, there are certainly changes, but are they still happening so that customers run from the taxi sector to the collaborative economy sector? I'm afraid I'd rather not. Is it that families give up the other car and start to use the sharing economy service for shorter journeys, especially in cities? I think it's more of a development in this direction. The practice of countries and cities where Uber, for example, has been on the market for a long time, also confirms that this is not a fight between the taxi sector and driving distribution, but a fight between driving and private cars. I think that both you and the city planning fan, as I have sometimes understood your social media posts, and also Yoko Alender, who stands for cities to be for people, not cars and parking lots, should be a positive initiative. Not to mention that one of the pillars of the European Union's climate policy has been the desire to reduce the air emissions in the transport sector. It has been said that we are going to turn crops and oilseed rape into biofuels for the food industry, it has been said that we are replacing petrol and diesel engines with gas engines to reduce air emissions. But no one's offered to just cut down on the cars. The average car stands for 23 hours a day. It would also reduce the money that we need to invest to ensure that our roads are ever wider and that people do not have to eat their breakfast when they are stuck in traffic, coming from Viimsi to Tallinn, etc. I think that if we adopt this law, we will also take a very important step towards a more environmentally friendly Estonia. The important thing is not only that it is a new economy, and it provides people with the opportunity to make additional profits on their underutilised resources, but we reduce air emissions, make cities more calm, reduce the number of cars standing, let alone increase their leisure time. The Estonian has always been a car person: he washes and cleans the car, there are some wipes in the garage that need to be maintained, the car needs to be built a home, a garage, etc. That kind of thinking might start to change. Nobody's being forced, it's a free choice. But the University of Tallinn carried out a study that 47% of respondents thought that if this service expanded, they would be willing to give up the family's second car. With what measures and subsidies would the European Commission have wanted to solve this? At the moment, it is simply solved by reaching an agreement between people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U143	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I think we're on the right track. In the world of services, citizens need to be more trusted and less regulated, as society can actually manage the way these services are organised perfectly on its own. The truth is that we could think more about the availability of the pharmacy service and about not always telling the farmer when to put the fertilizer in the field, either immediately after the snow melts or shortly after. But my question is about the subject of driving journals, which are on the table right now. It is well known that if a citizen has a private car and offers a service, he is a taxable person. If he decides that he is driving a car used by the company by a driving-sharing method, then there may well be room for interpretation again, because driving home and work may no longer be the things we mean by them today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U144	This has also been brought to the attention of the Ministry of Finance. It is currently the case that taxi drivers and taxi companies are entitled to deduct input VAT when they submit a taxi licence or a taxi licence. This has to be pointed out; that was the correct point in this respect. But once again, how crazy do we have to go with cars, I don't know, kilowatt taxation, VAT deduction, driving diaries and everything? The country definitely needs taxes, but I don't know if if it's a kilowatt more or less is the right instrument here. As far as I'm concerned, when we were discussing corporate car taxation in the previous composition, thinking that if you use a car for many purposes, then it's that half of it is deducted and half is not deducted. That's where life should come out. Infinite reporting in dealing with a country certainly does not go far. Here I really support your approach. People understand a lot of things themselves. The communication between the citizen and the state is usually based primarily on morals, not on the activities of an evil tax officer or a state official who is always standing by with a fine book. It seems to me that the 25 years that have passed since the restoration of independence are increasingly strengthening the morale of people in their dealings with their country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U145	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I understand that this law covers two types of people. First, those who want to earn a second pension, or service, and second, those who travel from Tallinn to Tartu and take their companions with them. Can the attitude toward both of them be the same? I also heard this story in this hall that it is all meant to compensate for costs, that if I go from Tallinn to Tartu, I can compensate for expenses. Is there no point in paying income tax when it comes to cost compensation? Or am I purely a service? Maybe if it's a cost compensation, I have nothing to do with the IRS?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U147	Good Raivo! First of all, I would like to congratulate you and your colleagues, Mr Arno and Mr Uno, who have stayed in the Chamber from the EKRE Group. Indeed, your questions and remarks and the debate you are pursuing in the Chamber of the Riigikogu answer how one parliament could work. Your younger colleagues, on the other hand, rhyme the debate every day with completely inappropriate expressions. I will once again name you, Raivo, Uno and Arno, and I really appreciate and respect you. In answer to that question, I say I wouldn't know the difference. We take regulation of this service as a regulation of the possibility of earning extra income, no matter what, you do it once a month, twice a month, more times a month or every day. For example, if you're a project-based entrepreneur and you have two weeks' time off, you put two weeks from morning to night every day, make two months' car lease money, and that's fine. If we get the difference here, we're gonna make our lives harder. Rather, let us make it very simple, so that the development of the whole sector is based on tax standards. Taxes are for payment and they must be as simple as possible. This is what the tax administration allows. I guess then we're on the right track. Once again, thank you for this question and for your general attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U148	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U149	Thank you. Let us think for a moment what Estonia will be like when we have adopted this law. Some of the taxis are going to be driven by other cars, which do the same things that the taxis did so far. In addition, if a person loses his or her job or his or her salary is reduced, or the state decides that pensions do not need to be increased, he or she will remove the car standing there from the garage and start providing the service. This means that the number of cars on the streets will remain substantially unchanged or even increase. What is the basis for your claim that this will contribute to making the urban environment more pedestrian friendly and could be a nature conservation measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U150	This is based in particular on the fact that, if people can use their own car instead of using their own car, they may have used the car only so far to drive home from work and work, go to the store and come from the store to order a driving-sharing service, then they do not need their own car. 47% of those who responded to the Tallinn University survey mentioned that they would be willing to give up their family's second car if this service developed. In my opinion, this is a sufficient argument to justify its arguments. After all, you are a modern man; do not want to take away the freedom of people to share their time and possessions with anyone else and ask for a reward. This is not just a place to ask for a fee, but it is still a very clear opportunity to receive additional income. I think this opportunity should be left to the people, and we should not restrict this right in any way in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U151	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U152	Thank you. I will continue on the subject that has already begun. The state-supported airline has completed flights to Kuressaare. This morning I spoke to a person in the Riigikogu who accidentally managed to get from Kuressaare to Tallinn, also using one app, driving a helicopter, because there was a vacant seat in a private helicopter. They made an agreement and he got to Tallinn without Avies, faster even. Many of those who have spoken against this draft here today are still talking about redefining the existing concept. The world is changing rapidly, and new words need to be created. Perhaps looking through the eyes of taxi drivers or those who are defined as carriers under the Public Transport Act, they are really quacks, as they have been tried to name them here today. Perhaps it would be necessary to define a new concept in order to create'sharing transport' alongside 'public transport'? Then we could separate these things a little bit and take away that Haltour flavor. This is the new form of economy: public transport instead of public transport. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U153	I'm gonna do something with you. I think that word covers the meaning and meaning of this service. In short, I would still like to make it easier for people to live here in Estonia, easier to earn additional income and easier to consume the services they want to consume, and also to offer these services. We make Estonia a country where dealing with a country is easy. If it takes some special law and we're putting some other law into a pile of paper, fine, I agree. But simply because we want to redefine some concepts, I do not think it is necessary to make another law aside from the law on public transport. After all, we are always criticized that you are constantly making laws, more bureaucracy, more and more. Now we have the opportunity to create a very simple way in which people can earn extra income and start a business by sharing their assets to earn income and pay taxes. I do not know how much we have worked so far to ensure that people's tax standards are strengthened and how many legislative changes we have had to make so that tax receipts improve. There is not much to talk about declaring 1000 euro bills, but this was one small change in the declaration, which brought us more than 7% of the total VAT receipts. The total amount was EUR 100 million. Again, with these legislative changes, the tax administration has been able to reduce its workforce by 23% over the last few years, i.e. 23% less people who go through the paperwork and follow up on whether or not this person or another person has fulfilled their obligations. I think this is a good opportunity to make the country easier and to make Estonia bigger in thought. Indeed, the image we have as an IT state, which our politicians, in particular President Toomas Hendrik Ilves, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas and all members of the Riigikogu, are now becoming much stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U154	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We've been discussing this for two hours. I'm glad to see that despite your youth, you're actually an old wolves of parliament. Like you said yourself, you've been in parliament for nine years, and now you've lasted these two hours. I have a simple question for you. Of course, it is gratifying that a member of the Environment Committee is still living in you and you are talking about the future of the environment and the green world view. It seems to me that there is still a skeptical attitude in this Chamber and a desire to reject this bill. As you said yourself, there is also a way to disable this service. I support this bill and see no opportunity to make people give up this service. I'm sure you've met people outside this hall who are skeptical. What are the alternatives they want to see? One way is to proceed with this law, make amendments as the MPs wish and as we welcome, and the other is to ban it. Are there any in-between suggestions? Why would anyone be skeptical? So how do we solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U156	The meetings of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu have looked somewhat more peaceful, a solution has been sought. The solution has been that if there is a question of equalising claims, we will discuss it, make amendments and bring them in before the second reading, then bring them into this Chamber, decide and the law will be adopted. It's as simple as that. I totally agree with you, good Rainer, that it is impossible to make people give up this service. The country's only option is to ignore that such a service exists at all, and to stay out of the bloodstream in national terms. I would still regulate it, set very clear frameworks for the client and partner manager as well as for tax collection, I would adopt this law and I would begin to implement the objectives that emerged from this study of Tallinn University. It turned out that 91% of people are willing to use this service, 47% are willing to give up the second car in the family, and 31% are willing to offer this service themselves, or a third of all respondents are interested in the possibility of earning additional income. We give these people the opportunity to earn extra income, to abandon the family's second car and to consume this service! I fully believe in the environmental aspect. For renewable energy, biofuels and all other environmental measures, societies have had to pay well. All this to reduce CO2 emissions. The number of cars can be reduced thanks to the wider spread of the collaborative economy, and society does not have to pay a single cent. Here is a very important place for a world-view approach. I am not saying that we could have achieved the current share of renewable energy through the collaborative economy, on the contrary, but we know that Estonia is at one of the rearmost places in order to meet the European climate policy objectives in the field of transport. So let's do what we're doing right now and reduce the number of cars!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U157	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U158	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As one of the authors of the bill, I am far from surprised by the controversy and heated debate that this regulation has created. I also participated in today's demonstrations. I have spoken to several parties and stakeholders affected by this draft. It must be said that the situation in Estonia is quite calm, compared to those European countries where this problem occurred some time ago and where demonstrations and dissent have raised the temperature to a much higher degree. It is clear that driving sharing, as well as other elements of the sharing economy, has confirmed to be carried in Estonia as well as in many other countries, and it is clear that it is not possible to reverse development because the river will not flow backwards. The difference that characterises Estonia is that we are trying to regulate driving distribution in the law. In other countries, such as Germany, Great Britain and many others, solutions have come rather from the courts. They have been expected for quite some years, and this uncertainty has not really benefited one side or the other. If it weren't for us today, nothing would probably happen. Real life would work further, drivers would squirm on our streets with increasing momentum and there would probably also be some litigation in Estonia. In such a situation, those who want to go with the new and those who think that it poses a threat to their lives. However, in my opinion, it is reasonable to argue things out, so let it take as long as necessary, while encouraging novel solutions, people's initiative and giving a clear signal as legislator. I am sure that if we take a yes, we will also find sensible solutions. What is the most important added value for the society that we achieve by regulating and breaking through this issue? In my opinion, by legitimising the service of driving, we give ordinary people the opportunity to earn extra income from their work and to do better in their lives. We are thus making life arrangements more flexible and increasing society's prosperity. Many have spare resources and resources that can also be shared and put to work better for their own benefit. In addition to driving distribution, the provision of accommodation services, which has quite evenly and smartly won over 5,000 participants in Estonia, is known to be a big hit. This number increases every week. Airbnb or other such platforms shall be used for this purpose. The sharing service as a whole also offers the opportunity to promote sustainable living arrangements, as this will enable us to manage society's assets more wisely and with the involvement of people. The solutions proposed in the draft act do not only concern the sharing of travel, but also include taxicabs, as those who point to clear similarities between taxicabs and driving. Inequality and unequal treatment cannot be created here. Although the taxicab regulation was improved in this hall a few years ago, it is clear that it is now in the way of time. When passengers on the streets are driven by ordinary people on normal vehicles as drivers of Taxify, Uber or Driver, it is also appropriate to review the requirements for taxiing, to relax taxiing rules and to adapt these rules to a reasonable extent so as to ensure the safety of passengers. The bill makes the transport market more modern and further harmonises the requirements for traditional taxi companies and car drivers. However, we are not talking about equalising, because the differences between these services will remain, starting from the fact that the vehicles of the drivers must not bear the special characteristics of the taxi and must not take the passengers onto a bare hand swing, ending with the fact that a clear picture of the price and duration of the journey can also be obtained from the electronic platform. Taxi services will be freed up, which will make the provision of taxi services easier and less red tape. For example, the draft proposes abolishing the vehicle card requirement, as well as the licence requirement for self-employed taxi drivers, as it actually coincides with the provider card requirement. Rather, it is reasonable to withdraw a formal training requirement from the law in this form and to replace it with a self-regulatory regime, i.e. an internal rule for transport companies, as is the case for service providers. We are also harmonising the requirements for driving distribution by means of the so-called 'good repute' requirement, which is enshrined in the law with embarrassing precision. This harmonisation means that we exclude from among the leaders persons who have been convicted of criminal offences or who have been punished for driving intoxicated. The quality of both services should be improved by more effective monitoring and also by increasing competition, which will certainly arise. In summing up, honourable members of the Riigikogu, I say that there is certainly still a lot of work to be done with the draft, and that is why we have time in this Riigikogu. In particular, the opinions of stakeholders and experts should be taken into account and solutions should also be found to the detailed problems that have not even been put on the table. We do not have any examples from Europe; we do not have such solutions there; we are essentially creating regulation for one branch of the collaborative economy. We will then try to take into account the real-time changes and opportunities that information technology offers us. I think that encouraging those involved in the collaborative economy is a sensible step for the country, legitimising driving sharing and relaxing taxicabing is a time requirement and, in my opinion, for us, as an innovative small country. I think it is reasonable to go ahead with this draft and find solutions that take the views and interests of the parties as far as possible into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U159	We'll proceed at 1:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U160	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject 188 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 25 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 45 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of the draft 188 has been completed and amendments tabled... [[The noise in the room, the manager's ringing the bell.]] Dear Riigikogu, once again I declare that the first reading of the draft 188 has been completed and I will set the deadline of 10 May at 17. Now the chairman's break begins, which takes three minutes. Closure of the sitting at 1.57 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U161	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U162	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I was pleased to hear that the Commission also addressed whether or not to limit the volume of the service. You didn't reach a consensus. I would like to remind you that truck drivers and bus drivers have recording equipment that records driving time from one second to the next. Therefore, those who did not arrive on time, for example, on the ship, must spend 24 hours in a parking lot in the winter, cold, etc. Maybe that's what you're counting on. But the focus of today's debate is actually on the client. Maybe there's been a little talk about the client today. The biggest difference between Europe and us today is that when we go to Europe to visit our friends, they usually do not instruct us which taxi to use. Personally, I'm gonna have to do this, I'm gonna explain to you which taxi you could take from where. I have a question for the Chair of the Economic Commission for Europe whether there are plans to amend the customer-specific overregulation so that the customer can have better service.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U163	I think that the most important prerequisite for a better service and better price is competition. There is no point in denying that the legalisation of this activity will bring more people on the market who offer a fairly similar service to taxiing. I think competition is the best guarantee for better quality. We have not discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs that regulation in the field of taxiing could, in principle, be amended. Yes, some of the requirements are scheduled to be taken out of there, but no additional regulation is planned. Kalle suggested that there has been no qualitative change in the provision of these services, but I will say once again that the best guarantee of quality is competition. It's very wrong to think that this bill is the death of a taxi. The use of black tapes could still be left for those occasions, if there is real reason to do so. I'll tell you again, there was, there was, and there's, and there's. I've been using the classic taxi service so far, and even though I'm hot on this bill, I'm probably gonna stay on the cabs I'm used to driving. Well, it's a habit thing, isn't it? It's good to have different options. Well, time will tell who has more 'right of life' in the future. But I'm not worried that there's going to be some kind of disaster. I apologise for the fact that the lack of time left unspoken procedural decisions. In particular, the Committee on Economic Affairs took the following decisions at its meeting on 12 April 2016. Firstly, we had a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 19 April 2016 (the decision was consensual). Secondly, we proposed ending the first reading (as well as consensually) and thirdly, we proposed setting the deadline for submitting amendments at 5 p.m. of 10 May 2016 (this was also a consensual decision).
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U164	There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Toomas Kivimägi! I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U165	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues in this Chamber and, hopefully, further away! Allow me to express the view of the Free Party Group on this draft. The subject is undoubtedly important, necessary and important. Congratulations to the colleagues who initiated this draft! Perhaps the initiators could have been added to the draft by the opposition, but that would have, of course, expected the initiator to think out of the frame and perhaps much to want to do. To oppose the provision of a sharing service would, of course, be pointless and unnecessary, perhaps stupid. This would remind us of the struggle of conservative teachers in the 1960's against pencils or other such hopeless activities. So, in our opinion, the right question is not 'whether' but 'how'. There is no doubt that any comments, doubts or reservations that have occurred in this Chamber today should be taken very seriously in the further processing of the draft. It should also be taken seriously to note from the Ministry of Justice that the solution that brings about a fundamental change may not yet have been thought out to the very end, and that the analysis of impacts is also somewhat one-sided, this time one-sided in terms of positivity. As a representative of the opposition, I would like to point out that, if the opposition presents, however proven, drafts with just the same positive impact analysis, the Government of the Republic will always take an extremely critical view of them. Today we heard an optimistic report that was sometimes similar to that of an experienced salesman, but an ex-politicist is a salesman of his ideas. I hope that the questions raised during today's debate, how to say, will not be driven quickly and proudly by political will, but will be taken in substance and very seriously. The main issue is that if we consider the service offered to be substantially and practically the same, then to what extent the requirements for drivers and vehicles should be similar. This is the principle of equal treatment that the Ministry of Justice has referred to. So the key issue in today's debate is to what extent there is a difference between freight transport and taxi services and to what extent they are similar. If there are provisions in the Public Transport Act that seem too bureaucratic from the point of view of today's Riigikogu to apply them to travel-sharing providers, they are likely to be excessive for taxi drivers and they should be reviewed. Perhaps there is something in the rules that does not actually have an effect, as doubts have been heard here today, that does not improve the quality of the service and does not increase its reliability and security. This is because it is simply not possible to control the requirements that are in the law. So we should seriously examine whether or not one or the other party, the trader or the taxi service provider could have an unjustified competitive advantage as a result of our activities. There is no doubt that we believe that there are some positive points in this draft. If, through the collaborative economy, a new, simpler form of entrepreneurship, such as micro-enterprises, or the regulation of self-employed persons is significantly improved, it will be very positive, it will heal the Estonian economy, and it will also be important for the entrepreneurship of the Estonian people. In the view of the Free Party, it is also positive that the collaborative economy is a community phenomenon based on trust between people. This approach must be fully supported. So if the issues relating to security, insurance and quality requirements are resolved when the structured concepts, which Mr Kivimägi pointed out a few minutes ago, will ultimately be critically and rigorously positive in the view of the Free Party Group on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U166	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Jaanus Marrand, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U167	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U168	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to comment on the words of the rapporteur, Kalle Palling, that my earlier views have deeply offended him. When I heard this, I remembered the Estonian people saying that women would be offended, men would be angry. But good. What is the difference between conservatives and liberals? Liberals do some hurrah in a freshman year, and then they'll see what happens, so maybe other people will have to start picking up the pieces. Conservatives watch out, think it through, try to anticipate unwanted consequences, and with all this in mind, they try to be smart. This applies in the same way to the definition of family and taxicabs. Conservatives certainly do not oppose innovation, technological or ideological innovation, either in the economy or in other areas, but in any case progress must be made cautiously and sensibly. We foresee a whole range of problems that this bill poses, and it is possible to predict quite specific setbacks. The most important of these are the words 'inequal competition in the provision of public transport services, or taxiing', but, moreover, these people in the collaborative economy ignore language requirements, working time regulation and professional skills requirements. This is followed by declining employment in existing sectors of the economy, the cessation of self-employed activities, the bankruptcy or closure of companies with clearly domestic capital, the result of which is that the availability of the service is uneven or reduced and certainly also deteriorating quality. The problem is that we do not see how tax receipts improve or why tax receipts should improve in Estonia. If there were will, all these foreseeable developments and setbacks could either be neutralized or prevented. Unfortunately, we do not see the will, understanding and desire of the drafters to do anything better, which leads us to a very clear understanding that this is a lobbying bill. Against this background, we are proposing to reject the draft proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the amendment of the Public Transport Act before us, which has been referred to as the draft Uber Act, has now aroused many passions and will certainly continue to do so. Some call it an almost depraved activity that legitimises pirate taxis; others see it as the first swallow of the new collaborative economy, which is of meaning not only for Estonia but for Europe as a whole. I'm trying to analyze the situation without emotions and sober minded. The Social Democratic Party Group is of the opinion that we should not be looking for reasons why driving sharing cannot be regulated, but should be discussing how to find working solutions. The reasoning is actually quite simple. The genie has flown out of the bottle, and he won't be stuffed back. The volume of the collaborative economy worldwide was estimated at $26 billion in 2013 and will grow quite rapidly, to a range of $200 billion in the near future. Such success is, of course, linked to a change in technology and people's way of thinking. When a hundred years ago, the creation and raising of small capital through joint action was called progressive, then in the near future, success will undoubtedly be linked to the collaborative economy. It is certain that, together with such changes, the nature of the work will change in the future, as will the revolution in tax-based understandings. It is, in itself, a positive thing if people share their property and part-time entrepreneurs to increase their family's income in a sustainable way. It is understood that there has been a profound conflict between traditional economic solutions and the collaborative economy. Just as it is not possible to ban new IT solutions and all the apps that change life, so the driving-sharing service cannot be called Uber, Taxify or whatever, simply called pirate taxonisation and banned. Since the collaborative economy will remain operational anyway, it is essential to put this activity within the legal framework. I am sure that the peaceful coexistence of traditional taxiing and driving-sharing services is quite possible. As an example, Skype, which years ago was a blasphemy for telephone companies. However, Skype and fixed phones currently exist side by side and there is room for both. The same is true of taxiing and driving. They are not one-to-one comparable services, both will certainly have their own space and customer base, who prefers one or the other service. It is important that when defining and legitimising the driving-sharing service, we should not slip and offer in haste simple solutions that would lead to an avalanche of litigation. In this way, we could discredit the principle of the collaborative economy as a whole. We should therefore take very careful account of the possible accusations that the constitutional principle of equal treatment is being violated. In the opinion of the Socialists, the draft raises three issues that need to be resolved in the course of further proceedings. These are, firstly, the definition of a driver as an entrepreneur and the calculation of his revenues and costs, secondly, safety and quality of service, and, thirdly, the drawing of an exact line between traditional taxi and driving-sharing services, so that any constitutional interference is removed. Pursuant to § 3 (2) of the Commercial Code, a person who permanently carries out a work or provides a service must register as a self-employed person. We estimate that this also applies to part-time work, whether it is done or 20 hours a week, as the Uber leaders on average do. Since man's main work is elsewhere, the current forms of enterprise in the Commercial Code are not well suited. It would make sense to create a new form of business in the Commercial Code, whether it is called a micro enterprise, a part-time entrepreneur or a sharer, which is already a matter of taste. Such a form of entrepreneurship could be simple and free of red tape. The basis would be to use the tax and customs platform already in use, where the divider could register himself and declare its revenue-costs. Perhaps even a few clicks would be enough, then the company would be registered and taxation would begin on the same platform. In this way, there could be considerable tax revenue from drivers, I think not less than the current taxicab drivers, who receive an average of EUR 133 per year. In order to address the quality of service and driving safety issues, it is necessary to assess the existing Uber and Taxify's own requirements for drivers and to consider writing them into the law. Believe me, the analysis says these requirements are already pretty tough. Feedback from passengers has a pretty good impact on the quality of service. The third issue should be to review the requirements for taxi services set out in the Public Transport Act and to bring them closer to the requirements for passenger services. In essence, this would also mean a partial simplification of taxi drivers' requirements. There are, of course, also very fundamental things that should remain to distinguish between traditional taxi and driving-sharing services. They are well listed in the draft, from taxi identification marks, plafone and other external features, to public transport routes and electronic ordering platform. In total, there are seven or eight of these significant differences. The driving-sharing service remains in competition mainly with "sponsored taxis" from the city, but apparently the taxi service has its advantages, such as stable service of hotels and airports, reservation, etc. The world around us is changing, changing technologies and perceptions, attitudes to life and definitions to date. Recently, I spoke with a Dutch Member who pointed out that his son no longer wanted to hear from his car, but agreed to ride either a train or a split taxi. He himself leases a car, his father had dreamed of a car, and his grandfather had been concerned about a personal horse. So the world is changing, we should go along with this change and discuss the opportunities that we have. If we are able to approach these things with soberness and rational consideration, we will create a proper legal framework for driving-sharing services and we can lay the foundations for other services as well. There are already dozens of types of collaborative economy, as was clear from this very morning's demonstration of support. It's the future. Let's not put the gin back in the bottle! Let us seek solutions, not reasons why we cannot! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U170	Erki Savisaar, please, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! One thing is certain: the idea is novel. But this is not because it is an app, but because a new form of enterprise is emerging. This idea has its charms, but also many drawbacks. We cannot talk about everything in these few minutes, but I hope there will be meaningful discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs. We certainly cannot say that using an app alone is something innovative. Estonian taxi drivers have been using apps for years and all taxi drivers are already using three to five apps, using them before Uber and using them after that. The Riigikogu should certainly not rush to process this draft or to adopt the law. This draft is unique in terms of both Europe and the world. Many countries have banned apps like Uber, mainly because taxiing is a very specific and regulated area. One such dispute is currently pending before the European Court of Justice. It certainly does not make sense to adopt the law before the judgment of the European Court of Justice, because if the European Court of Justice decides that German taxi drivers are right, Estonian taxi drivers will demand the same right immediately. We don't need these lawsuit cases. Consequently, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, I propose that the draft be rejected at first reading. The problem which the Court of Justice is discussing concerns equal treatment. The draft is also contrary to the Constitution in terms of the principle of equal treatment. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, has also pointed out this contradiction and several other shortcomings in the law. Certainly, we must not adopt a law that is contrary to the Constitution. There are, of course, a number of ways of eliminating the conflict. In essence, two points could be made: either declaring an arrangement as equivalent to a taxicab, so that all the same rules apply, or describing an arrangement in such a way that its definition does not coincide with the definition of a taxicab. I'd like another solution better. When we recall how the trade agreement arrived here and how it is advertised, we notice that this rhetoric is going through such a statement that if someone wants to optimize their costs and if they go to work in the morning after someone else from the same area who has the same journey, why can't they get a reasonable legal reward for it? Of course, but today's Uber and Taxify are not such apps. Rather, they could be characterised as taxi companies, not as driving platforms. In my opinion, there is an important difference between driving distribution and taxiing. The driver begins driving by saying that he will take off now or in half an hour or so and asks who wants to come with him at that price. Taxis, on the other hand, are ordered by customers, telling them when and where they are going and where they want to go. This definition is supported by taxi companies. On this basis, these services could be distinguished quite clearly and specifically. All those who wish to earn their daily bread by carrying passengers can register as taxi drivers because, according to taxi drivers, this process is neither too costly nor too complicated. The second question relates to taxes. They say that when using Uber, you can only pay for the ride electronically. That is not quite the case, since a conversation with a leader of Uber, who has made few meals, revealed that six of the races paid for five were paid in cash. There are similar references from other parts of the world. This already confirms that the electronic platform is as secure as the person using it is. Discussions have shown that taxi drivers do not pay income tax and that there is nothing to lose. This isn't quite right. In addition to income tax, there is social tax and VAT, and most of the taxes received by taxa are derived from VAT. Unfortunately, I do not have precise data on the turnover of the taxi sector, but let's do a simple calculation. In order to survive by taxi, the weekly turnover should be at least EUR 400, which is EUR 20000 per year for the circa. Our 4,000 taxi drivers are expected to generate a turnover of EUR 80 million, with a value added tax of around EUR 13 million. If we consider that half of the leaders go to the Uber platform after this law is passed, we will essentially lose EUR 7 million in VAT. There is no way to believe that this amount is paid to the Treasury as income tax on the basis of the voluntary travel distribution declaration. The reason why there is no VAT on the distribution of the car is also simple. Uber is not an Estonian company, it is registered in the Netherlands and can submit VAT-free invoices. Once again, inequality in comparison with local entrepreneurs. The collaborative economy as a whole is, of course, a much broader concept. The journey is followed by delivery and distribution of tools, apartments and other property. I agree that it makes sense to simplify regulations in such a way that there are simple and legal ways of paying, for example, a babysitter or also a driver, but we think this through well, and we do so with particular care, if the service we are now regulating is regulated very precisely in the past, as has been the case with taxiing or accommodation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U172	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, As the time for the Commission's presentation was too short and the questions less than expected, I take this opportunity to say on behalf of the group some of the positions that were not previously touched. The first important thing is that openness to new business models and technologies is clearly an opportunity for a small country. Kalle Palling pointed out very nicely that the Estonian Tax and Customs Board is probably one of the most innovative tax and customs agencies in the world. One example is the possibility that has not yet materialised, namely that tax reporting platforms, which, I think, Marek Helm is perhaps dealing most with in the world, could also be taken over by other countries. I think it would help the sign that shines from time to time and fades from time to time, that Estonia is an e-state, a very innovative and open country to new business models, to shine once again. In this sense, it is extremely important. Another very fundamental thing that I still want to talk about is that I am categorically opposed to the fact that such new business models and technologies are being forced into today's framework. This temptation is always there, but I think it would give us a very wrong signal that we are not open to new ideas and new ideas. Kalle here gave an example of Skype. I also think that if we were when Skype started to come on the market or the men just started putting ideas on paper, we would have set some kind of requirement like that at the time, if the Estonian Phone or Estonian Telekom I didn't know how the name was supposed to put payphones on the streets, which are no longer there for today to push Skype into these frames and be 'equal treatment', then I think that Skype would either not have been born at all or would not have been born in Estonia. That's another thought. I mean, there are limits to equal treatment. If we were to take this very strictly, we could say that e-commerce should be banned. I, too, am the owner of shares in Tallinn Kaubamaja and I am not very happy that e-commerce is developing. But where would we end up like this? I think there's some kind of line on the principle of equal treatment. I firmly believe that we are going the wrong way if we want to push distribution or bargaining under taxi regulation. However, by harmonising these requirements in certain important circumstances, I fully agree. I think maybe the most critical place here is the requirements for drivers. There's probably the biggest risk here. There is no reason to worry very much about this car, because the car must comply with the requirements of the traffic regulations, carry out a survey, etc. Cars are very different indeed. I don't think this is the most problematic place. The most problematic place is the guarantee that the driver will be qualified and meet the requirements. As I said above, there is no contradiction or antagonism here, because on the Uber and Taxify platforms, which we know most, these requirements are even stricter than those imposed by law on taxi drivers. There is no contradiction here, and I think that we will solve a major problem with this. In my opinion, however, it is extremely important and still needs to be assessed by the regulation on platforms that we want to write into the law. No denying that we've taken the most thoughts of Uber and Taxify, but as Erki suggested, no one is forbidden to make another platform. The question is whether the maker of this next platform will also agree to apply the same requirements and conditions as Uber and Taxify de facto apply. It is crucial that we do not only rely on the two who, it seems, are exemplary in providing this service, we also need to be prepared to have someone third who may not be able to comply with these requirements. I think it is entirely appropriate to take these views that passenger safety is still central and essential in the case of trade agreements. We must not compromise here. I really like the nuance that has been highlighted. I think Allan Martinson has once said that in America it is considered a risk if you are a paid worker, and in Estonia it is considered a risk if you are an entrepreneur. These are basically different concepts. I think that, through the collaborative economy, many people who are going to travel in the form of bargains will have first contact with business. They have to make a little bit of difference between revenue and expenditure and declare their revenue. The first contact is always the most important and important. Then there will be a certain degree of confidence to take the next step and perhaps to create another company that offers a job to anyone other than itself. So creating a link with entrepreneurship, I think, for thousands or at least hundreds of people, is an important added value in this matter. The second thing is the environmental aspect and the issue of traffic. Tallinn has been hit by public transport tracks and so on. I say, for nothing, because there are not many of these alternatives, how everyone can get to the city centre normally. We will never be able to create such a network of roads that all cars that want can easily access the city centre of Tallinn. That's not possible, we just can't do it. There is a need to look for alternatives. I think that promoting public transport and new buses are certainly one of the very right paths, as well as creating a separate public transport path, not only evil but also drivers, because their journey to the city centre could be more difficult. But the idea is that you don't have to come in your car, you can take a public car. This bill offers the possibility that if someone wants to drive downtown from Lasnamägi, he doesn't have to take a separate taxi, so one of the cars that drives downtown will come, but if at the same time a neighbor goes downtown who has joined the Uber or Taxify platform, he will pick up the person, or one of the cars will go downtown less. Both the win-time and the environmental aspects have been taken into account, so that there are many competitive advantages. I sincerely thank you for the substantive debate that has taken place here. I believe we can manage and show that Estonia is still the most innovative country in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U173	We've run out of negotiations. The proposal of the Economic Commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft 188. During the negotiations, the Central Party Group and immediately thereafter the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group have proposed to reject the draft 188 at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. But a procedural question, Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U174	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for ten minutes of intermission before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U175	On behalf of the Group of the Ken-Marti Vaher Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-19_U176	On behalf of the Group of the Toomas Kivimägi Reform Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
