ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 17th working week on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Cultural Commission initiates a draft for the appointment of a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. In connection with Mihkel Raud's statement of 9 June, the Riigikogu Cultural Committee, at the request of the Social Democratic Party Group, initiates a draft for the appointment of a representative of the new Social Democratic Party Group to the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. Since Article 15 (4) of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act requires the Riigikogu to appoint a member within three working weeks, the Committee on Culture will initiate the draft today, 9 June and propose the name of the proposed member on 13 June. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U3	Good fellows! I don't see any more calls. I have adopted a draft decision on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu will decide on its further proceedings. Now, let's do the presence check, please! There are 80, now 81 members of the Riigikogu and no 20.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U4	Now let's start working on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Construction Code and the Planning Act, which was initiated by the Economic Commission. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Mikhail Korbi, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We are currently discussing the draft law amending the Law on the Implementation of the Construction Code and the Planning Act, which is already at the third reading. Nevertheless, it is still not clear what such a draft has been put forward at all. At the meetings of the Economic Commission, the views of all parties were heard. I will now try to give you my conclusions point by point. I will start with what the purpose of the amendment is. With the draft, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications wishes to extend the deadline for obtaining and issuing a professional certificate by one and a half years. Why do you even need a certificate of competency? I think you all agree that construction is a serious area where competence plays a very important role and people's lives are involved. Everyone will surely remember the recent case of Latvia, where the roof of the shopping centre fell on people. There have also been cases in Estonia where people have been affected because of the incompetence of builders and designers. In order to minimise the risk of such incidents, it was necessary to establish clear requirements for professionals in the construction sector. These requirements should have been in force since next month, but now we are postponing them for a year and a half, and the arguments why this is necessary are very difficult to find. The Estonian Architects' Association, the Estonian Association of Civil Engineers and the Estonian Association of Construction Consultants are opposed to the postponement of the deadline. The Riigikogu has once entrusted these associations with the assessment and qualification of construction and design specialists, so their opinion should be heard now. The main argument of the draft act is the small number of beneficiaries of certificates of competency compared to the register of economic activities. On the other hand, the Ministry cannot even answer the question of how many companies actually operate in the construction sector. We compare the number of certificates issued with the number of registrations, but not with the number of people actually working in the field. According to the abovementioned associations, the transitional period has been sufficient for those who were really interested in demonstrating their qualifications. Everyone was aware and who wanted to prove their competence. Now there's a situation where one hand doesn't know what the other one is doing. The associations carry out their work, evaluate and qualify specialists, but the economic activity register does not support this activity. The whole story of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications means that this pseudo-problem is the result of their own work. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will have to repair the lists of specialists responsible for construction and design. In the construction sector, qualifications are necessary. This will ensure the existence and quality of qualified persons in the construction sector, which will give confidence to the contracting authorities and, in the future, to the users of the buildings. There were two years to transition. We have no certainty that we will not be in the same situation in a year and a half and that the law will not have to be amended again. Regulation in this area was once decided that professionals in the construction and design sectors must hold a certificate of competency. Such a decision was once motivated by serious motives. Now, however, those who were conscientious and complied with the law correctly and formalized the certificate of competency on time will be punished. As there is no argument for extending the deadline, there is no point in confirming the weak work of MKM with the draft. That is why the Centre Party Group does not support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U6	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us begin preparations for the final vote on the draft. I will put draft 238 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 52, 27 against and neutral 3 the draft law amending the Law on the Implementation of the Construction Code and the Planning Act, initiated by the Economic Commission, was adopted as 238 law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U7	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. Overview of the uniform application of judicial order, justice and law. The rapporteur is Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court. I ask Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu! And a few words about processing. Every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask the rapporteur one oral question. Only the representatives of the political groups may speak in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! On 14 April this year, the Riigikogu discussed the reform of government as a key national issue. Almost all of the presentations were discussed in the analysis of the Estonian Centre for Political Studies Praxis, which shows that the need for reform of Estonian government is mainly due to the demographic contraction and relocation of our population, as well as the fact that, despite the major changes in the external environment, the Estonian public administration system has not changed significantly in recent times. It is obvious that the judicial system, which is also part of a national organisation, cannot remain immune to these tendencies. In view of the future, I can therefore see that, like other areas of our statehood, the judicial system will inevitably have to adapt to new circumstances by reorganising itself to the extent necessary. On the other hand, justice is not just a public service among many others, but a central fundamental right that the state must guarantee in accordance with the Constitution and international standards. Therefore, the limits that must necessarily be taken into account in the reform of state governance in the judicial system must be determined before the court reorganisations are initiated. To begin, however, I would like to assure the legislator that Estonia has been able to build a very good judicial system in the period following the restoration of independence. We have a well-established professional judiciary, excellent judicial authorities, and our judicial authorities are well-managed. The Estonian judicial system is represented in all relevant international organisations. In so doing, we are capable of manning judges with high-level judges in supranational judicial institutions. As Estonians are a nation of rankings, I am taking this opportunity to refer to the European Union's Justice Scoreboard this year, which shows that Estonia is outstandingly successful in several categories. The exception is only as regards the financing of courts. According to the Scoreboard, Estonia's state budget expenditure on the justice system in euro per person is third in the European Union, leaving us in the last part of the table with Romania and Cyprus. More important than any formal tables, however, I consider the content, i.e. that our courts ensure the functioning of Estonia as a rule of law, and that justice through courts is at a high level. In summary, it is therefore safe to say that we have the best justice system that can be achieved with the budgetary resources allocated to it. In view of the above, I do not believe that the judicial system needs a radical restructuring in the context of the reform of government. Justice is already conservative in a good sense in nature, and any changes in this area must not only be thoroughly but thoroughly considered. However, by saying that the judicial system does not require drastic renewal, I do not mean that there is no need for any change here. Just as all musical instruments need to be tuned from time to time, there is a need for periodic assessment of the ability of the judiciary to work. On the other hand, by analogy with the setting of instruments, we must also be extremely careful not to tighten or break tongues. What, then, could be the places in the judicial system to pay attention to? Given that one of the main arguments for the need to restructure public power is based on the continuing decline of the Estonian population, there are at least two main issues for the judicial system: firstly, the feasibility of continuing with the current judicial network, and secondly, the number of civil servants involved in the judicial system. I'll start with the courtroom. As the decline and relocation of the Estonian population will continue to be a process in the future, this inevitability cannot be overlooked when determining the locations of courts and court houses. This is confirmed by the experience of many foreign countries so far, where, driven by demographic trends similar to Estonia, the size of the judicial network has been discussed and reformed. Such countries include, for example, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, Croatia and Portugal. It is therefore a normal process to discuss the feasibility of the locations of courts and courts in a changing population situation. I recall that the Estonian legislator has dealt with the issue of the judicial network at least twice in the recent past. First, in 2005-2006, when the existing county and city courts were merged into four major Courts of First Instance, and then in 2008-2009, when the Viru Circuit Court was wound up. However, in order to further optimise the judiciary, it is extremely important to bear in mind that the decision on the location of the courts is not equivalent to the determination of the location of the regional offices of the administrative authorities. The right to judicial protection is one of the fundamental rights set out in Article 15 of the Constitution. The design of the judicial network, which creates unreasonable obstacles to accessing the court, certainly constitutes an important barrier to both its fundamental right and other fundamental rights relating to judicial proceedings. The greater the number of disputes arising from a particular area of life, the easier the judicial system must be available in terms of distance. I would like to draw the legislator's attention to the fact that, in particular, the feasibility of the right of access to court was a subject of discussion in a recent judgment on constitutional review of the Supreme Court. In this case, the Supreme Court was asked to check whether it could be considered compatible with the Constitution that forces the residents of South Estonia to turn to the Tallinn Administrative Court in disputes with the Social Insurance Board, while the Tartu Administrative Court is much closer to them. However, in the decision of 10 May this year, the Supreme Court considered the jurisdictional regulation of administrative court proceedings constitutional. One of the decisive arguments for such a decision was the fact that, regardless of the distance of the post-subsidiary court, the law in force allows the party to proceedings to carry out important acts also in the judicial authority closest to him. For example, a person can file a complaint at any courthouse from which it is transferred to a post-subsidiary court. In view of this and a number of other factors, the Supreme Court considered the constitutional requirements for the availability of justice in this case to be fulfilled. However, as a more general conclusion, it is clear from this decision that the development of criteria for the geographical availability of justice is an indispensable prerequisite for the reorganisation of the judicial network. Such an analysis must be carried out specifically in relation to the right of access to the courts, as experience in other areas cannot be transferred to the courts. It must also be borne in mind that, although the development of information technology is losing distance, the right of recourse to the courts must also be guaranteed for those who do not have computer skills. The impact on the judicial system of reducing the number of civil servants cannot be overlooked either. In view of demographic developments, one of the main areas of government policy of the Government of the Republic, which is the reduction of the total number of people occupied in the public sphere, in sync with the general decline in population, can only be accepted. The reduction in the number of civil servants also concerns the judicial system. According to the figures provided by the Ministry of Justice, the number of persons employed in the courts of first and second instance is intended to be limited to 1000 staff. Although the number of judicial staff is likely to increase slightly in the near future as a result of the addition of a number of new criminal procedural tasks to the courts from 1 September onwards, I would like to draw the legislator's attention to the fact that it is not right to equalise judges with other servants in optimising the number of civil servants. The judiciary is directly acting in the exercise of judicial power, just as the parliament exercises legislative power through the activities of members of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic through members of the government. Since it is difficult to dispute this position, it must inevitably be admitted that in a situation where, for example, in the case of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic, a staff reduction requires only a reduction in the number of employees of the administrative apparatus, but in the case of a judicial system, there is also a number of judges, the programme does not treat the branches of state power equally. Since it is not possible to find a reasonable justification for establishing different standards for the judiciary, the speaker considers that judges should be regarded as a separate group of services and should not be counted under the quotas for the judicial system. When limiting the number of people employed in the judicial system, it should also be taken into account that there is no single link between the decline in the population and the number of cases. In other words, fewer people do not necessarily mean a reduction in the number of cases before the courts. This particularly applies to the movement of cases between different levels of court. Thus, for example, the workload of the Supreme Court has steadily increased over the last five years, despite the fact that the overall number of appeals to the court decreased somewhat in the meantime. Thus, the dynamics of court cases function in their own way, so it is arbitrary to assume that the reduction of the population would automatically lead to a reduction in the workload of the judicial system. However, a reduction in the number of judges would automatically result in an increase in the workload of the judges in the event of a change in the number of cases or an increase in the number of cases and, therefore, an increase in the length of the proceedings, i.e. a reduction in the availability of justice. It must also be borne in mind that, according to the Constitution, only a judge can perform the core functions of justice. This excludes the delegation of his duties to other civil servants, such as Advocates-General or Registrars. The latter may be able to assist the judge in his work, but not replace him. For the above reasons, it is essential that the reduction in the number of civil servants in the judicial system be preceded by a critical review of the volume of tasks carried out in this sphere. It is up to the courts to decide what are the issues that must remain in their jurisdiction. Since it is not possible to check the number of court-goers from the outside, the workload of the judicial system can only be reduced by a revision of the obligations currently imposed on the courts. The latter approach may include, for example, the creation of new alternative proceedings to trial, a decisive re-evaluation of the possibilities of appeal, or a change to the current regime for the movement of cases between different levels of court. There may also be a reason to consider transferring the complex of tasks outside the judicial system in matters not directly related to justice. For example, according to the prevailing model in Western European countries, enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters falls within the jurisdiction of the prosecutor's office and not the jurisdiction of the courts. Certainly, the procedure for determining procedural costs in civil proceedings can also be made more effective. Of course, these changes can only be made within the framework defined by the Constitution. The Constitution guarantees, as a central principle of the rule of law, the protection of all persons without a fundamental right when they go to court. It follows, inter alia, that a reduction in the workload of the judicial system must not result in unjustified obstacles to accessing the court. As a result of the Constitution, the legislator's power to restrict the general right of access to the Court is considerably open to the regulation of appeal in relation to Parliament's powers. I consider it necessary to emphasise this separately because, in this precisely unconstitutional way, the legislator tried to regulate the workload of the courts in 2009 by increasing the number of court fees. The extinction of the right to appeal may give rise to a more cost-effective state, but it would no longer be the rule of law. Since the courts are responsible for resolving disputes that arise from society, anyone who has a reasonable legal requirement for bona fide must also be able to enforce it in court. I recall that the working capacity of the judiciary depends not only on the protection of fundamental rights, but also on the wider economic environment of Estonia as a whole. This is because comparisons of the attractiveness of economic environments address the possibility for everyone to enforce their claims in court as one of the main indicators of the state of investment opportunities in the country. Account must also be taken of the fact that any pre-trial dispute resolution must not preclude the commencement of legal proceedings. This does not mean, of course, that the legislator should not provide for mechanisms to counter malicious complaints. The ability of the judicial system to provide effective redress within a reasonable period of time is inversely proportional to the capacity of the courts to counter abuse of the courts. This key can only welcome the intention of the Ministry of Justice to initiate a draft amendment to the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, which seeks, inter alia, to prevent misuse of the right of appeal and to speed up the processing of mass complaints by detainees. However, the legislator's discretion in determining the limits of the right to appeal is much more extensive. In particular, the right of appeal provided for in § 24 (5) of the Constitution gives Parliament the opportunity by law to impose restrictions on it which may be both formal and material. The situation in which the procedural codes in force provide for a double right of appeal in most cases may have been justified in the rapid development of the legal order, but its feasibility in the current situation needs to be re-examined. In this context, the role and competence of the various levels of justice in different legal proceedings is to be reinterpreted. Of course, neither can the legislator act arbitrarily in the area of appeal proceedings, which means that restrictions on access to a higher court must be justified. As this is not always the case, for example, the fresh decision of the Supreme Court is confirmed from 1 February. In it, the Supreme Court declared the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, which prohibited the exercise of the right of appeal when the court prepared a court decision without justification for the outcome of the proceedings, but allowed it in a situation where the court decided to motivate its decision. This means that the right of appeal of the person depended on the court's acceptance of the decision ♪ if the court had given reasons for its decision, it could be appealed, and if the court had decided not to give reasons for the decision, there was no possibility to appeal against the decision. As the above rule could not be justified, the Supreme Court declared those provisions invalid. Finally, I would like to return for a moment to what was discussed in the Parliamentary Report of the President of the Supreme Court last year. At the time, I drew the Riigikogu's attention to the fact that the unreasonably high number of court competitions seems to confirm that a decent salary alone is not enough to motivate good lawyers to apply for judicial office. I also pointed out that, after the loss of the judge's occupational pension, we are faced with a new situation in which we must, in particular, consider how to motivate new judges to continue their duties as long as possible. Today, I am pleased to note that Parliament has taken this issue seriously and that the social guarantees of judges have not been overlooked. The amendment to the Courts Act, which allows the judge to be granted additional leave depending on his seniority, is a first step in the right direction. I would especially like to thank the Riigikogu Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Minister of Justice for their active involvement in finding a solution to this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U9	Honourable President of the Supreme Court, thank you very much. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U10	Good manager! Head of the Supreme Court! To continue with what we discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have a few questions. Since 2014, the number of cases brought before the Supreme Court has increased sharply, especially criminal cases. At the same time, 66% of cases have been annulled, 77% in civil cases, 57% in administrative cases, so more than half of them. My first question is what has happened in the last two years. Have county courts and circuit courts become more derelict? Secondly, has trust in the Supreme Court as the last instance increased sharply? Third, is there anything else I can't offer? You have now had a few days to think about this question. What's happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U11	Thank you for that question. If we look at the procedural statistics of the Supreme Court, it is clear that the workload of the Supreme Court in relation to procedural requests has not only increased over the last few years, but has increased steadily in the trend of the last five years. We have now reached a situation where the number of procedural requests to the Supreme Court is already close to 3500, which is almost as much as the number of complaints lodged in administrative courts of first instance each year. This is indeed a significant number and what is or is behind such a large number of appeals still needs a separate analysis. However, I do not really agree with the conclusions of the honourable questioner on these figures. In the case of the Supreme Court, it must always be borne in mind that the appeal to the Supreme Court is, in some sense, an extraordinary way of complaining in the sense that, in general, the right of appeal is guaranteed once for each judgment. This also means that the Supreme Court does not process all the complaints submitted, but selects them. The procedure of the Supreme Court is subject to prior authorisation procedure. As a result of the permit procedure, and also in view of the great workload that has come before us, the Supreme Court only accepts complaints that are particularly well founded. Justification means an assessment of the prospects of the procedure, i.e. at the stage of the authorisation procedure, there is probably some pretext that this is an incorrect application of substantive law or a loss of procedural law, which requires a review of the decision of the Court of First and Second Instance. So, according to the filter system, which takes only those complaints that really need to be reviewed in the decision made at first and second instance, it seems that there is somehow an extraordinarily large number of cancellations that the Supreme Court is doing. However, knowing the background, that is, in itself, the logic of the operation of the system, because there must be some reason in the large number of procedural requests why one thing is taken into consideration and the other one is not. The second option when the Supreme Court takes proceedings is that the settlement of the first- and second-degree court remains unchanged, but the Supreme Court ruling has the creative meaning of the precedent in this case, i.e. the Supreme Court refers to the courts of the first- and second-degree courts that the decision in this case is correct and must be observed in other analogous matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U12	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U13	Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Your subject also concerns the uniform organisation of justice, and that is my question. We can see that different economic crimes are being investigated differently. For example, let us recall the recent case of Tartu's assistant mayor Lember, which is being investigated as a common economic crime, the Savisaare case as a case involving the state's secret service, as if it were a security issue, let us say, a espionage where such techniques are being implemented. It seems that information about the leader of the largest opposition party has been gathered for many years, as is the case with counterintelligence. I'm asking you, why is the so-called ordinary crime investigation being conducted by a secret service known to have a very large connection with the government? In my opinion, this does not guarantee the independence of the investigation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U14	Thank you for this question. However, I must draw the honourable questioner's attention to the fact that the questions relating to the investigative power of investigation are in no way in the jurisdiction of the judiciary, so that they should be asked rather by the ministers responsible for these areas, the Minister for Justice or also the Minister for the Interior. But I also draw attention to the fact that the subject of investigation is one that is still defined by the legislator when establishing the Code of Criminal Procedure. This also means that if Parliament considers that there are any shortcomings in the current system of investigation, it will always have the opportunity to initiate a draft law to amend the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That would, I think, be the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U15	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U16	Thank you, manager. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Listening to your speech today, as well as to previous speeches, I think you have one problem, namely, the lack of money is also putting pressure on the judicial system. That's why it's really hard for you to find new judges. It is sad to hear that the constitutional institution, as it is a court, must also lay off its staff on the basis of the so-called state norm or the prescribed number. I ask you: where is the limit, from which can you say that the Court, as a constitutional institution, is no longer able to fulfil its obligations because there is no money? Where's the border? I think it's pretty close.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U17	Thank you for that question. It is relatively easy to answer that question. This border is exactly where access to justice is reduced. Access to justice in this sense must be understood not only through the right of access to the court but also through the right to obtain a court settlement within a reasonable period of time. It is clear that, in a situation where the number of cases remains the same but the number of people dealing with these matters is decreasing, the result can only be an increase in the time limits for proceedings. And that is the main indicator to measure whether and to what extent the Estonian judicial system is capable of guaranteeing access to justice for everyone. I dare say that we still have a very well-insured right. If we look at Estonia's results in the light of European comparative analyses, justice in Estonia is currently on average insured for everyone within a reasonable period of time. This does not mean, of course, that it may not deviate from the average above or below in a particular case, i.e. either faster or significantly longer. But, broadly speaking, I think that we are not yet in a situation where we have problems with access to justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U18	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U19	Thank you, good vice chairman. Head of the Supreme Court! You referred in your speech to the amendment to the Penal Code, which will enter into force on 1 September. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Minister of Justice was very stubborn; he did not want to announce four new judges needed for this, which would also mean a support team. And it was very confusing that the Police and Border Guard Board and the prosecutor's office had one information system, but the court does not have this link, which means that paperwork can be one of the biggest obstacles to effective processing of surveillance permits. Has the Minister announced these four posts? Is and how far has the integration of information systems come? The Minister's explanation was that we will see what the practice brings. This change was adopted a month before the Riigikogu elections, which means that there was no internship analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U20	Thank you for that question. In my report, however, I referred to the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will enter into force on 1 September this year, which will transfer the sanctioning of a number of procedural acts which are more seriously affecting fundamental rights from the prosecutor's office to the judicial system. So since you have just referred to the amendment of the Penal Code, I am not quite sure that we are talking about the same thing. However, as far as the announcement of judges is concerned, there is some progress to be made here. Luckily, there have been no problems lately with the rejection of the competitions for vacant judges. Rather, the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice must be commended for the position we have recently adopted, namely that a competition is being announced as soon as possible. At the moment, we are certainly not in a situation where free judges are deliberately being held unfulfilled with the aim of saving some budget resources. As far as the integration of information systems between courts and other bodies is concerned, I am, unfortunately, indebted to the answer. I am not familiar with this issue and I believe that the Minister of Justice is the most competent to respond to it. Although I know that, yes, indeed, in the light of the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure which will enter into force on 1 September, certain IT developments have been undertaken in order to reconcile information systems with this changed legal environment, which will now be in force in autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U21	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Mr. Pikamäe! You devoted a lot of space in your report to reducing the number of civil servants and said, probably quite rightly, that it must be preceded by an analysis and review of the volume of tasks. But from what you're about to tell me, I realized it's already being done. From the point of reference to the re-evaluation of appeal possibilities, to dealing with the misuse of the right to appeal and to the speedier processing of mass complaints by detainees, I understand that the work is already under way. I understand that forecasting is ungrateful, but still, how could these steps, above all, reduce appeals, but also reduce first instance cases? On the other hand, as far as state fees are concerned, and what certainly was a very incorrect obstacle, has, in turn, added court cases in recent years, and quite rightly so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U23	Thank you for your question. Indeed, in my report I said that when we are talking about a staff cut, it should be preceded by a critical review of the volume of tasks carried out by the institution concerned, and that is correct. This is also what I said in my report that, in certain paragraphs, at least the analyses are already being carried out, and that is only commendable. When we look at what is currently being dealt with in the Ministry of Justice at the level of the drafts, one of the most important things that I consider to be one of the most important things is precisely the amendment of the Code of Administrative Procedure. The high workload of our administrative courts will inevitably fall to the large volume of complaints from detainees, persons serving sentences in prison, which, indeed, often also depends on specific detainees. Some inmates can be exceptionally productive and make a lot of complaints, so much so that we have seen one inmate be able to run the entire administration of justice system of the Tartu Administrative Court. But this same case is, in my view, the most illustrative example of the need for change in the area, because it cannot be normal that the volume of complaints lodged by a particular prisoner leads to the loss of access to justice for other people who also need to be guaranteed justice. Looking at the current situation, it seems to me that the Estonian state has very generously regulated the right of the prisoners to appeal to the courts. When compared with other countries in the context, this is often not the case. This is, in my opinion, one place where it will certainly be possible to improve the situation by amending the legislative regulation. The second issue is the issue of state fees. In the case of state fees, there has now been a marked reversal over the last few years. According to my opinion as well as the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court, the current situation is much better than what was in the past. However, whether this has led to a greater number of cases, I would not dare to say right now, because there is no link between one and the other. It is clear, however, that, despite the reduction of state fees, there are still certain spheres where the payment of state fees is beyond the person's control.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U24	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U25	Thank you, manager. Head of the Supreme Court! I may go a little further than direct legal issues and come to the role of judge outside the courtroom. Judgments can be very well motivated, all inclusive, but legally written in a complicated language that the wider audience often does not understand. What is your view that judges personally more explain the reasons for their decisions in the public eye and do not lie behind anonymous press releases from courthouses, where often they write maybe in a slightly simpler language, but simply repeat some resolute part of the judgment? Do you think the judges should communicate more personally with the public and explain the reasons for their decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U26	Thank you for your question. There can only be one answer: the judgment should be as short as possible and as understandable as possible. It's hard to argue about this thesis. On the other hand, of course, it must also be taken into account that both justice and law as a whole use a professional language, which is inevitable. Just as medicine uses a specialized medical language when issuing its documents, it applies to justice, and certain adjustments come into comprehension through it. As regards whether and to what extent the judge should explain his decision, I have always believed that it is very good, even commendable, if, apart from what he has written in the language of the judgment, the judge can explain his decision to the public in as simple and understandable a language as possible. That is the goal we are pursuing. When we look at how efforts have been made to resolve this situation in some other countries, it is often the case that the judiciary has trained separate judges who have been trained in the media and who are used as speakers precisely to explain the case-laws that attract the most public attention to the press and, let us say, to law-award members of society. I believe that this is an objective which the Estonian judicial system is also striving for.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U27	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Statistics show that the workload of the Supreme Court has increased considerably, especially since 2014 in criminal matters. Has there been any analysis of this, or is there any idea of the specific reasons for increasing this workload? If it hasn't been done yet, shouldn't it? I think that would be important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U29	Thank you for your question. Of course, it is necessary to know what has led to an increase in the number of appeals to the Supreme Court in one form or another. Unfortunately, we do not have an analysis of this at the moment, because the information systems in use do not allow us to collect such data. This means that in order to answer this question, the criminal cases received by the Supreme Court must, figuratively speaking, be dealt with by hand and the reasons for them examined. Now, in a situation where the Supreme Court will soon, hopefully, join the new judicial information system, it will become considerably easier to obtain such analysis. In the new information system, it is also possible to take out those things that are most contested by the Supreme Court by type of procedure and sub-procedures. However, it can be said that when we look at, for example, the number of cases brought before the criminal colleges of the district courts, it is clearly dominated by matters of general procedure. These are things in which the parties to the proceedings have not agreed to follow any simple procedures, i.e. they have remained in their position and have gone to court to settle the case. In such a situation, where the established position is such that its position is fully protected, the case will be appealed to the district court and then, as a natural continuation, to the Supreme Court. If there's an option of appeal, there's always someone who's gonna use it right now. So here is the one-to-one connection, I think, with the number of general procedures and the nature of resolving matters arising from the general procedure, which is that all appeals are challenged using all the means of redress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U30	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Very Honourable President of the Supreme Court! You devoted quite a lot of attention to the judiciary and access to justice in your presentation. You have just highlighted geographical availability and you have rightly said that not everything can be done by means of information technology. That moved my mind right forward. In order to talk about the availability of justice, we also need to talk about whether our judicial network is accessible, accessible to all people, because it is known that variation is very high. And in addition to the content of availability, can we respond or make the service available, for example, to a person with intellectual disabilities, or to another group, so that he understands it? How do you assess the aspects of current access and, let's say, substantive access to the justice system?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U32	Thank you for that question. The reason I referred to this problem is primarily because we do not currently have such an analysis. Our judicial system, to say the least, has also developed to some extent as a result of decisions that have been built up in previous stages of development. However, such a determined analysis of the conditions for the geographical availability of the right of access to justice has never been carried out. Now, in a situation where, in the meantime, the Ministry of Justice was also concerned with the idea that we should critically review whether our judicial network is optimal, I think that this analysis should precede the assessment of optimity. Very eloquent, as I referred to in my presentation, was the very recent case we encountered at the Supreme Court. It is true that this was not at all a decision of the legislator, but was due to a change in the organisation of the internal work of the Social Insurance Board, which at one point sharply subjected all Estonian residents to litigation in matters with the Social Insurance Board to the Tallinn Administrative Court. This means that although we have an administrative court in Tartu, the southern Estonian citizen must also come to Tallinn to deal with the matter. In some ways, this raises the question of whether such a geographical distance in Estonia is justified in order for a person to be able to go to court. This case, I think, illustrates particularly well that it is now high time for us to tackle this problem and to see to what extent recourse to the court is guaranteed and, on this basis, to draw out places where it could be optimised if possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U33	Mr President, thank you very much for your report and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I now ask Kalle Laaneti, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U35	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Supreme Court and guests from the city of Pärnu! Thank you very much to the President of the Supreme Court for a meaningful report! I am very pleased that this year's review of the President of the Supreme Court is addressed to the judiciary as part of a system of state that we have already begun with the reform of governance. I sensed from the review of the Supreme Court's Chairman's review that the justice system would look at to make the judicial system even more effective. We have, by now, been able to substantially reform the judicial network in the light of changed circumstances. 2005-2006. In 2008, we merged the existing county and city courts into four major courts of first instance and 2008-2009. Two circuit courts were left in 2008. The courthouses of four county courts, Harju, Pärnu, Tartu and Viru are located in every county centre. There are three courts in Ida-Virumaa and Harjumaa. There are four court houses in the structure of the two administrative courts in Tallinn and Tartu: Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Jõhvi. The two district courts are located in Tallinn and Tartu. The question of whether it is possible to correct the judicial network further in the interests of efficiency or whether it is optimal. I agree with the Chairman of the Supreme Court that the improvement of the judicial system cannot go too far, that the right to judicial protection of a person must not be affected, that is what § 15 of the Constitution tells us. At the same time, once the demographic situation has changed, the judiciary has to go along with it. To find out this, an analysis and conclusions must be drawn from it and, if necessary, restructuring should also be carried out. Of course, the decrease in the population may not be closely correlated with the number of recourses to the court, so the analysis should also take into account the number of recourses to the court, which is still on the rise in recent years, in particular the number of appeals to the Supreme Court has increased. As far as the number of court officers is concerned, they also need to be reviewed, even in order to obtain certainty: this figure is optimal. I agree with the Chairman of the Supreme Court that consideration should also be given to the possible transfer of tasks which are not directly related to the administration of justice to the executive power. Since the judicial authority is responsible for the administration of justice, enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters could fall within the competence of the executive authority. Similarly, a discussion could be reopened as to whether the registration offices of the company register, the register of non-profit organizations and foundations and the commercial pledge register must be departments of the Tartu County Court or whether the maintenance of the registers could also be transferred to the executive. Consideration could also be given to the opening of the debate in 2010 on the change in the judicial administration system, according to which the administration of courts of first and second instance would not be conducted by the Ministry of Justice, but the responsibility for the proper functioning of justice would be placed on the judiciary as a constitutional institution itself. I support the idea stated by the President of the Supreme Court that the limits of the right of appeal must be reviewed in order to improve the efficiency of the judicial system. In my opinion, not all cases have to go through three levels of court. In some more complex cases, the procedure could start at the second stage, in others, on the contrary, the procedure could end at the second stage. In the case of inmates' complaints, it could be limited to enabling the prisoner to challenge the decision of the administrative court on him, for example, in the Supreme Court, such as the so-called jumping cassation in certain types of misdemeanours. According to the current system, complaints from detainees are dealt with in essence in four stages, as there is also a procedure for appeal before court proceedings. Consideration could also be given to converting the administrative court system into a two-tier system, where the administrative court would be the first court level and the higher administrative court would be the second court level, as is the case in Finland. I believe that, like the entire system of governance, there are places in the judicial system where our small country can operate more effectively. So thinking about us all in the future, both to the judicial system and to the members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U37	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U38	Thank you to the Head of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable President of the Supreme Court and good guests! First, I'm gonna ask for three more minutes, just in case, of what was left over on Kalle Laanet.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U39	We'll give you three more minutes just in case. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U40	I will present some thoughts on the subject of today's report by the President of the Supreme Court and the judiciary. The head of the Supreme Court rightly stated that justice, justice, is in itself a conservative act. Perhaps it would be called a standard of stability. But I dare say that the Estonian judicial system has generally been progressive and progressive. Why do I think that? Certainly because, in fact, the so-called administrative territorial reform of the courts, which we looked at this week on the surface of the municipalities, has already begun in the judicial system a decade ago and has achieved an optimal model by now, I think. Secondly, certainly in order to optimise the activities more effectively, so that the judge really only deals with justice and has as little to do with bureaucracy as possible, I believe that the judicial system has adopted very well the so-called judicial reform that led to the assistance of the Advocates General. It is also an optimization so that any specialist, especially a judge, can deal with what the Constitution means most to him. Not to mention, for example, the introduction of the judicial information system, which has been very painful, because it is a completely new approach to which the Supreme Court will soon join. All these things actually show that our judicial system is not a backward but very progressive branch of power. Therefore, especially in the current situation, I agree with the Chairman of the Supreme Court in every way that the limits of restructuring in the judicial system must be analysed and weighed very, very seriously. Because if this is not done, not only the credibility of the courts, but the credibility of the whole country in the eyes of its citizens will suffer. Certainly one thing about restructuring is how close justice is to the citizen, the person. For example, in the meantime, we have seen the increase in expenses relating to recourse to the courts.. to the present time, the Supreme Court has changed them by its decision, and this remoteness of the entire administration of justice can lead to a very negative development for one state, i.e. an increase in arbitrary behaviour. This is what we have been away from in 20, 25 years, recalling the 1990s, where the vigilante was the most important court. Now it's in the background, and society doesn't tolerate it. As far as information technology is concerned, the development of information technology may make it easier to go to court and to communicate with any state, but it is precisely the value of justice that must be taken into account, namely exchange. The exchange is a value that gives a person the assurance that the decision made against him is considered and fair. I am very cautious about this approach, the direction that judges will be taken as servants of our public administration. It shouldn't be like that. We need to understand that every judge really already constitutionally bears the fullness of the branch of state power. Yes, there is much more of them than, for example, those who carry the fullness of executive power, we are talking about the cabinet or us, the Members of Parliament, but they actually represent the same branch of state authority in all of their duties and in their rights and responsibilities. So they should not be considered the subject of state reform in reducing the number of public officials. I also hope that in the near future, if the Justice Minister arrives in this hall by autumn, it will be promised by updates to the State Legal Aid Act, then the courts and the Supreme Court will also contribute to the weaker groups to whom it is not as accessible as the average citizen, whether for linguistic, proprietary or otherwise. This is a necessary step in the legal system. In one way, it raises people's legal awareness. Yes, the risk is that it may increase the protection of rights in courts, but it may also be different in the event of an increase in people's awareness before going to court that it is not really an object of litigation and can be resolved differently. However, whatever the impact of this will be, even if there is an increase in the number of cases before the Court, is something that the rule of law must deal with and that it must take into account in its budgeting. I also very much liked the idea of the President of the Supreme Court that a functioning and correct judicial system is not only a good quality of the rule of law, but also an economically very important development factor. This is because, when the judicial system works, it can prevent investment in black money. Those people who would like to use not the most useful means in the economy, I mean money laundering or any kind of corruption, are not coming here because they know that this kind of activity involves punishment. This is also one of the values of the rule of law from an economic point of view. But one thing I also asked the Chairman of our Supreme Court about, I would like to highlight here. Indeed, I do not underestimate the role of judges outside the courtroom. Complicated judgments in difficult legal language may be well motivated and comprehensive, but it is difficult to understand them outside the courtroom. This, in turn, can affect the sense of justice of those who try to understand it. I have therefore always supported the principle that judges will also explain the reasons for and reach a decision before the public in a simpler language. The legal language is systematised and defined, it is a specialized language that has developed from the working language, and the judge should be able to bring it back to the ordinary language so that people can understand what has happened. Finally, I would like to thank the President of the Supreme Court for his substantive and very forward-looking speech and to stress the very large role of our Supreme Court Chairman. I have seen in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as as as the Minister of Justice in his previous office, how he hurts the heart for the justice system. For example, the draft that we adopted this week at the third reading, concerning the issue of retirement leave for judges, has been brought to this Chamber by the President of the Supreme Court. So thank you and good luck to the justice system!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U41	Thank you. There doesn't seem to be any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I thank the President of the Supreme Court very much for his review! I would like to thank the members of the Riigikogu who actively participated in this item. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U42	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is draft law 239 on monitoring development initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Today is the second reading and it is a great honour to invite Maris Lauri, member of the Economic Commission, to the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll take a look at the draft law on development monitoring after the first reading. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5 p.m. on 25 May and no proposals from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees were received at that time. By letter dated 25 May, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications submitted some amendments for consideration to the Commission, which were supplemented in subsequent discussions. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry submitted its proposals by letter dated 24 May. The following amendments: There were 15 of them, all of which received the Commission's support, although corrections were also made compared to the original version. The Commission discussed the amendments tabled at its meeting on 31 May, 2, 6 and 7 June. All procedural decisions on the draft were taken at the meeting on 2 June. Marika Popp, Head of Development of the Department of Economic Development from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Mikk Vainik, expert of the same department, Kaie Koskaru-Nelk, Deputy Secretary-General of Fiscal Policy at the Ministry of Finance and Tarmo Carrots, Deputy Head of the Department of State Property, took part in the meeting on 31 May. A number of amendments were linguistic and specific, with several proposals that were both substantive and linguistic. The draft was complemented by proposals from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry concerning, firstly, the involvement of a recognised business expert in the appointment of its members and, secondly, the possibility for business organisations to submit proposals for an action plan. At the initiation of the draft, it was intended that business organisations would participate in it, and now it was simply found that business organisations deserved to be specifically listed in the law. One amendment is that the principle that monitoring proposals must include the purpose of monitoring and the justification for necessity is also included in the working group and in the Commission. In addition, the amendment extended the deadline for the appointment of the members of the Advisory Board from one month to two. The reason was that due to the first process and the summer months it might happen that a month is too short to find and appoint suitable candidates to the council. It also included the principle that the council should take its decisions with the support of at least three members of the council. One important topic for discussion was the proposals to amend the regulation on the relocation of investments presented in a letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, on which the Ministry of Finance had commented. The Commission heard the views of the representatives of both ministries and asked the ministries to jointly find a satisfactory regulation for the transfer of investments. Such a solution, which takes account of the interests of both ministries, was submitted to the Commission, and the Commission voted on and supported the amendments to § 15 and 18 of the draft, as amended by § 19 at its meeting on 6 June. Another major discussion broke out of the 2016 budget on the allocation of funds allocated to the Development Fund for monitoring activities but not used. This is certainly a question of financing the activities of the Centre for Development in general. The Working Group and the Commission have always taken the view that the financing of development monitoring at the Development Monitoring Centre must be at least the same amount as so far the national budget allocated money to the Development Fund for monitoring activities. It is definitely a question of this year. Since the start of the Development Monitoring Centre begins as soon as the Development Monitoring Act enters into force and the length of the process of winding up the Development Fund is not predictable, the law must ensure that some funds are transferred to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu by the fourth quarter of this year at the latest. We cannot wait for the liquidation process to end and then for funds to be transferred. The Commission considered that the regulation on the distribution of funds not used in the budget of the Development Fund should be incorporated into the law, as there has been a lack of clarity about budgetary resources. The funds allocated to the Development Fund must be distributed in such a way that one part is spent on launching the Development Monitoring Centre's activities, one part on organising the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the monitoring of smart specialisation. These funds must also cover the costs of winding up the development fund. By 2016, the Development Fund has a budget allocation of EUR 770000, of which some 320000 have been disbursed in the first half of the year, thus remaining at around EUR 448000. There are no binding decisions except that the Development Fund Council will discuss the second half-year action plan and budget at its meeting next Monday. According to the representative of the Ministry of Finance, the redistribution of unused funds allocated to the Development Fund from the state budget for monitoring activities can be done at the Government level in accordance with the basic state budget law and there is no need for further regulation in the draft. However, for the sake of clarity, the Commission considered it necessary to include the relevant regulation in the Development Monitoring Act. According to this, the development monitoring centre will receive EUR 200000 in the second half of the year and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will receive EUR 50000 in the financing of smart specialisation monitoring. The wording proposed in § 18 of the Bill has been accepted by the Ministry of Finance. The Commission agreed that the amount allocated to the Development Monitoring Centre from the state budget should be visible in the state budget as a single amount. There were disputes about how to formulate the budget of the Centre in relation to the budget of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, but the Commission found a compromise. Amendments 6, 7, 8 and 11 specified the closure of the Development Fund. The issue also arose in the Commission as to whether a long-term action plan for monitoring development should be drawn up and, if so, whether it should also be regulated at the level of the law. It was considered that a long-term action plan might be necessary in certain cases, but its regulation at the level of the law was not deemed necessary. It was considered that it would be sufficient for the council to regulate the matter in its rules of procedure. The Commission took its procedural decisions at the meeting on 2 June and decided to send the draft law to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 9 June with a proposal to finish the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 14 June and to put the draft to the final vote. The draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U44	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Maris Lauri, for this review. There are both substantive and purely technical issues in the process of dealing with this draft. I'm aware that the monitoring part of smart specialisation is being transferred to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. So are they going to act as the Ministry's Research and Development Department, or what does that really mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U46	The Development Fund was the place where, on the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Education, Estonia was seeking growth opportunities. Political choices were subsequently made in this regard. And now we have to follow up on these selected areas of growth, how they develop, whether they have been successful. This monitoring should be done by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which is the agreement between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Education. Monitoring is necessary to enable Estonia to use very large amounts of EU funding to develop the business environment, in particular to support research and development and to implement its results in business.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U47	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I want to ask you about this council first. Your proposal is to appoint one member from the Committee on Economic Affairs. This means that the opposition does not automatically have the opportunity to participate in the council. Is it deliberately offered, or is it a mistake that can still be corrected?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U49	Thanks for asking. Dear colleague, you have misunderstood. As we know, no member of the Riigikogu or government may belong to the council. This means that the Economic Commission will have the opportunity, in cooperation with the opposition, to find a suitable person who could represent our view that there would also be a link with the Riigikogu. I think that the Committee on Economic Affairs will find a very suitable person who is involved in the economy, whether from business or somewhere else. We can probably start discussing this right after the law is passed, perhaps next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U50	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U51	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! You must have read an article by Toomas Tamsar and Jüri Raidla, who appeared a few days ago, on the subject where they conclude that monitoring should take place at the Prime Minister's office or at the Prime Minister's office. Could you please comment a little on this article?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U52	Thanks for asking. This is certainly a subject that is very much debated. In a very large number of countries where national level development monitoring is carried out in all countries, namely most countries which do not deal with it, it really does take place in the area of executive power. If we share players in executive power very severely, in half of the cases, this work is done at government level and, in the other cases, under some ministries. It is certainly a question of what is the willingness of one or another body-organisation to deal with this matter, and it is certainly also a question of what targets have been set for monitoring development. Development monitoring is not an unambiguously defined area. It has two important components: a view of the future and a view of the future, so-called widely, but the task can be very different. Our task, which we discussed in the working groups, was that inclusion should be as broad as possible, and should give everyone, including the opposition, the coalition, the various committees in the Riigikogu, the necessary input so that they can look further in their work. The fact that the centre is located at the Riigikogu does not preclude cooperation with the strategy office at the State Chancellery and all ministries. I hope that all public authorities, but also private companies, will be ready to cooperate with the Centre, because then the best monitoring will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U53	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns the timetable, i.e. how we will move forward after the adoption of the law. Be so kind as to give the Riigikogu's plenary an overview of what the expected movement schedule could be for the assembly of the Advisory Board of the Centre for Development and perhaps for the most important decision! After the adoption of the law, when could the Head of the Development Monitoring Centre be appointed, of whom the future success of the Centre depends to a large extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U55	Thank you! This is certainly a very important and interesting subject. The proposed amendment to the draft law will extend the deadline for the formation of the council, which will be two months. Thus, in the second half of August, the council should be together. When the Advisory Board meets, it will be able to announce at its first meeting, in addition to the establishment of its rules of procedure, a public competition for the head of the competition. Hopefully, the message that we are going to look for an active person with a good vision to lead an institution that is going to deal with a lot of important things for Estonia is already of interest to potential candidates and enough candidates are participating in this competition. I also hope that the selection process will not be too long and we already have a person at the end of September or October. And then work begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U56	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Erki Savisaare, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U57	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U58	Please, three minutes! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Development Fund was launched more than nine years ago. As the first research work completed, researchers at the University of Tartu showed, under the leadership of the academician Urmas Varblas, that the structure of the economy must be changed in order for the economy to grow. If you put it simply, you can say that we will not be richer in the same way, doing the same job. If we want the economy to grow, we need to change our working methods and technology and invest in sectors that have the greatest potential here in small Estonia. Unfortunately, some companies have to stop operating in the process and new ones have to replace them, but this is the price of growth. Unfortunately, these studies did not go any further. There were no answers to questions about what to change and how to change. I am in the Riigikogu for the first time, and I cannot tell you why this topic did not go any further. Instead, there is the popular perception in Estonia that I am doing my job right and well, and I certainly do not have to change anything, others are doing it wrong, and they are the ones who should do Estonia Nokia, then life will be better for everyone. It's been ten years, but we're still in the same place. Yes, the economy has grown slightly in ten years, but the global economy as a whole has grown significantly faster. This means that our share of the world economy has decreased. While we have become wealthier in absolute terms, everyone else has become richer, and we have actually become poorer than others because their growth has been faster. This is primarily expressed as two phenomena. First of all, when we travel abroad, the land that we once felt favorable doesn't feel like it anymore. And secondly, we are seeing more and more tourists on our streets from countries from which traveling here earlier was not conceivable or was so expensive that it was not so much done. The best example may be the Chinese tourists, who are blocking the square in front of Toompea Castle all year round. The main problem with our economic policy is that we are doing what others are saying and we are not thinking about why they are telling us this. We shouldn't do what others do. This is also the reason why it was decided to set up a development fund ten years ago. We need to find out which sector of industry can be developed here in Estonia to produce the most wealth and bring more money to the country. This cannot be done by feeding start-ups or simply by sowing money or fine-tuning. This requires a systematic and scientific approach to this problem, with modern words of'smart specialisation'. Supporting smart specialisation within the European Union's rules is a sensible and practically the only way. So how can we proceed? There is a need for development monitoring and a development fund. A development fund could also be an institution that invests money in science. This was also done by an analogous organization in Singapore, for example. After Singapore's independence, billions of dollars were invested in knowledge alone. Singapore is now one of the world's most successful countries in the exploitation of globalisation, small and flexible. Large economies, such as the US, China or Germany, are difficult to reverse and provide a small, significant advantage in today's rapidly developing world. Estonia can succeed and the richest country in the region, but in order for us to use our little money wisely, we need development monitoring and smart specialisation. In order for us to know how to act in which area, it is necessary to carry out studies that assess both the opportunities of our country and the situation of foreign markets. The question is not whether a start-up can grow up and conquer the world, but whether it is worth continuing with oil shale, whether it is worth starting with phosphorus, whether biomethane is what will give our economy a new breath in the next decade or whether happiness lies in burning wood in the Auvere power plant. These are just a few examples, but there are certainly still options, including in the IT world. These are the questions that were up ten years ago, and unfortunately they're still up. This raises the question of whether, if these issues are still unresolved, we are discussing the cessation of the Development Fund here today. I would argue that the development fund must not be shut down, but it makes sense to review and clarify the objectives and tasks. Why is the Development Fund in such a difficult situation? I guess there's a lot of reasons. One of them is certainly that so far no opposition has been involved in the Council. The Council has become politically dependent and business organisations and research institutions do not want to contribute their resources to this endeavour. This error is also not corrected by the Development Monitoring Centre, which is the subject of this draft. In fact, we just need a little more specific tasks and better governance for the same organisation. The Riigikogu has not been a good master, but is it necessary to liquidate the fund and make a new entity? I don't think so. You can take more sensible steps forward. Today, the draft seeks to establish the Development Monitoring Centre at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu as a separate department. Unfortunately, no department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu can have such independence and freedom to use resources as an independent public-law organisation. One of the biggest problems with this centre is the impossibility of transferring budget money. When it happened earlier that a study took longer than expected, all the money could be transferred to the next year. The Chancellery Department of the Riigikogu cannot do this by virtue of the State Budget Act, so the Centre will have to apply for the same money again next year. In addition, it is a question of staff costs and many other things. And since, in addition to such fundamental questions as whether to wind up or restructure the fund, how to manage the budget, the issue of the independence of this department is open, the Centre Party proposes to suspend the second reading of the draft 239. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U60	Thank you. Please ask Krista Aru, representative of the Estonian Free Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Five minutes or eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U61	Five minutes. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! The Development Fund has tried to do a lot of work. None of us have denied it, some work has worked out very well, some not so well. To the question of why this has happened, I can't answer and I don't want to look into it. I guess there's a lot of reasons. But I am very convinced that no organisation or any institution will ever put its legal form into operation. The work of the institution still begins with the tasks set up, the desire to know something and, of course, people. People are the ones who ultimately depend on whether the institution has worked well or not. I can tell you from my own experience that for two years, when I worked for the Estonian Research Council, I tried to work with the Development Fund on smart specialisation, growth areas and niche drawing. There was competence, and there was will. What did we see as our goal? The fact that we are able to get involved with two institutions was also the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which must be our growth areas, which are our promising opportunities, which could safely move Estonia forward. We wrote, produced a lot of papers that were similar in certain respects to another strategic development plan, made beautiful plans, but these questions remained unanswered. It was not that people from the Development Fund or ministries were not able to do so. It was precisely that the development fund, in its form, had become very unconventional in nature. There was no more clarity as to why, for whom, in what form it was needed, he did not have a master. Today we are thinking that it is going well now that we are putting new people into the fund, maybe it will all start from the beginning and work very well. But it's still not gonna get any better when you fix the same jacket. We need to make more radical changes, and one of these changes could be one that would also force the Riigikogu itself, at the head of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to think better about what the Estonian state still needs. The Riigikogu is Estonia's most important body. I am excluding the President now, but the most important in terms of the institution is the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu must not only be able to improve its reputation; the Riigikogu must also have more competence. And I very much believe that if we have this Development Monitoring Centre, our own discussions, our own discussions about where Estonia must move to, where we want Estonia to move to, what Estonia's vision is, will surely end in this Chamber with a better, more competent and more meaningful response. Let us not merely try to smooth it out again. Let us take the courage to reorganize the matter from the beginning! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U62	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Just a few comments to this second reading. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance will certainly support the completion of second reading and the adoption of this draft before Midsummer Day. It cannot be disputed that, for ten years, the Riigikogu and the Economic Commission have been passive, to say the least, as a commission, have not met the clear objectives that the Riigikogu has had under the Development Fund Act. The Development Fund has been acting on its own and the investment activities carried out by the Fund have been of priority so that, unfortunately, development monitoring has remained rather dependent on the capacity of the current development fund leaders and also on the interest in addressing this issue. This interest has not been the greatest. Certain surveillance areas have been developed, but they have been very narrowly targeted. What has this working group formed by the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu wanted to do and form into this draft as well? It is in a good way a new beginning, in which there will certainly be a significant dose of idealism. Whether the new test bears flowers and fruits depends, in my opinion, first and foremost on the council, whose number of members is clearly limited. If there is a smaller number of members of the Advisory Board, the organisations and institutions that appoint the members of the Advisory Board will have a clearer responsibility, and this five-member assembly will have to pass on its message to a new leader, who will be very dependent on whether or not the Centre for Monitoring Development will prosper. Of course, the financial side is also important. There have been signals from this hall, and certainly from the outside, that the amount to be allocated is very high. You have to agree to that, it's not a small amount. However, to succeed, financial resources must meet the competences and competences required by the development monitoring itself. Those who become the centre's development monitors and analysts must be properly motivated. In this sense, the Riigikogu can ask whether we need to provide the Development Monitoring Centre with sufficient resources or whether we do not really need to monitor development in Estonia, I think quite simply to answer. If we answer yes to the first question, i.e. if we recognise that we need a Monitoring Centre for Development and a monitoring of development at all, and so on from across many institutions, it is clear that the amounts allocated must be such that there is no competence and competence behind them. Therefore, honourable members of the Riigikogu, I believe that the version of the draft proposed at the moment is reasonable. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we had disputes about the budgetary independence of the Centre for Monitoring Development. I think we have a rather uniform understanding that this independence must be guaranteed. Whether the law provides a sufficient basis for this will become clear during the implementation of the plans. I think that nobody here has the will to limit the self-regulation of the head of the centre and the council and the possibilities of using budget money. If something like this were to appear because of certain legal nuances, we could come back to it in the autumn to be more precise as legislators and to decode the budgetary competence and independence of the Centre for Monitoring Development. This regulation should be unambiguous, even so that the Centre can carry out its work in a sufficiently long and well-thought-out manner. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance supports the completion of the second reading and the third reading of the draft next week and its adoption as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U64	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not have spoken, but Mr Savisaar gave a very interesting speech. At first I thought, wow, they've stepped into a boat with us that would have been really nice. While working throughout the working group and, in fact, during the meetings of the Commission, they worked with us, but for some reason in this Chamber they are working against us. I would like to comment now on some erroneous statements and interpretations so that they do not sound. Firstly, to state that we have to worry about the fact that some of the poorest countries have become more prosperous, I think it is not pretty. We should be happy that poor countries around the world are gradually becoming wealthier. It also gives us an opportunity, gives our economy an opportunity. Next, the question of the Development Fund. As a result, the Development Fund was unable to do what was expected of it in the field of monitoring. The beginning was promising, but then things started to go wrong for one reason or another. No organization fails for one reason. It is therefore very wrong to say that if there had been a representative of the opposition in the Council, it would have saved the fund. The reasons were much deeper and it was very difficult to solve them. There were so many problems that it would be impossible to liquidate them. We need to start with a clean slate. We can talk about things that have gone wrong in the past. But if we're stuck in the past all the time, we can't make things better. Let's get started on what we finally want! We want good monitoring, we want a good idea of what our future might look like, ideas for what we should do to make things better. Let's do the center! Let us all, including the opposition, participate in this! This time we will leave the platforms unopposed, just as we worked together in the working group and also in the Commission. I would point out that, with the exception of one amendment, all amendments were accepted by consensus within the Commission. And another comment: The Development Monitoring Centre is not the usual department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The Centre shall be as independent as the Election Commission or the Election Service. To claim that the electoral service, the electoral commission, is the office of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, is erroneous. But once again: I hope that we all have the will to do a really good thing and really cooperate on behalf of Estonia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U66	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also had the honour of voting in favour of establishing a development fund in this Chamber. It's been quite a few years. I remember those maybe a little naive long speeches and the high expectations that seemed to come out of those calls. We hoped that the development fund would have such a great and beautiful undertaking as Finland's Sitra, that good new ideas would be generated there, and so-called incubating and supporting entrepreneurship. I wouldn't say it's 100 percent overdue, certainly not. We actually know the start-up and the generated ideas that have come out of it. Those things have been pretty good. It is true, however, that, as always in a small country, things often tend to get stuck in quite simple problems. One problem that is not easy is the lack of money, but the problem is also the loss of reputation. Perhaps we created this public body in too high a expectation. We put a highly paid council on the front, but it was more like such a festive collection than a substantive council to help implement the ideas. That's the past. Today, it is indeed more sensible to move forward with the development monitoring part of the development fund and to do everything much harder. We need to shake our heads because the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu as a whole have not set very clear goals for the Development Fund and have not required that the objectives be met. If not, no enforcement may be required. This has been a shortage of our own work. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U68	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U69	But today we have a new chance, a new situation. Monitoring development as such is something that we definitely need. We need ideas that could grow our economy, ideas that would be feasible. These ideas do not necessarily have to relate solely to the government, they should have a wider coverage. That is why we in the Committee on Economic Affairs had quite a heated debate about where this centre should work. Some business organisations have also said that the development monitoring unit could operate at the State Chancellery. But in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we reached a fairly unanimous position that governments come and go, but the Riigikogu remains. And the ideas that the government must implement are ultimately from among politicians, including us. They arrive here one way or another, and so it makes sense that the Development Monitoring Centre will be operating right here at the Riigikogu. Indeed, it is quite important that this centre does not become one of the departments of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which gives us any small tips or discovers any tax differences in one country or another. For that, we already have people who are competent in their work. This focus should be different and the financial power to do this should be different. We were quite unanimous on that. But, in fact, with the so-called EUR 10 000, I think we were arguing about the budget of the future Development Monitoring Centre in the Committee on Economic Affairs only yesterday. At the same time, we were relatively in agreement with the gentlemen from the Centre Party. Today they expressed a slightly different idea here, but in the ideas Erki Savisaar put out nicely here, we are relatively in agreement with them. Indeed, a great deal needs to be done. This same Development Monitoring Centre could put these ideas together nicely and we could put them into practice. The Social Democratic Party Group certainly does not support the suspension of the draft procedure. We would be pleased if all groups in the Riigikogu thought about development and were prepared to play an active part in monitoring development. And we don't need to look behind us, but we still need to look forward to making life better so that the ideas that Erki Savisaar had read can be implemented. If we do not do this Development Monitoring Centre, then the alternative is that the development fund simply cannot be a purely independent continuing institution, the observatory simply does not carry out. He must be under some kind of roof somewhere, and the roof of the Riigikogu, as I have tried to prove here, is best suited. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U70	I'm closing the negotiations. 15 amendments have been tabled for bill 239. They are all from the Committee on Economic Affairs and, of course, taken into account. Nevertheless, we must examine them: Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. Thank you. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 239. The Centre Party Group has proposed to suspend the second reading of draft 239. We will vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law 239. Please take a stand and vote. There are 18 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 51 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Bill 239, second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U71	We will begin the first reading of draft Act 214 on Supplementing the Social Tax Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The waitress for the initiators is Andres Ammas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U72	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased that, on the last items on the agenda of this week's work, we can exchange views on social tax in two different ways, in two successive items. First of all, we are talking about a possible social tax ceiling, or ceiling, and then a minimum. The idea of this draft is simple: to encourage the introduction and retention of highly paid specialists in Estonia and the creation of new high-paid jobs. It is clear that this will make the Estonian economy smarter and more productive. I think that everyone in this Chamber fully agrees on this objective. The question is how to do it. The idea of imposing a cap on social tax, the ceiling above which wage income is not subject to social tax, is far from being new. The Free Party does not claim to the authorship of this idea. This idea has been promoted by politicians of the Fatherland Union and the IRL, as I recall. This idea has been supported by Reform Party politicians. I remember that this idea has also been supported by at least some of the Central Party politicians. There are no socialist views in my memory and the views of the EKRE, perhaps the representatives of these parties will be able to present them themselves later. Almost all business organisations, such as the Estonian Employers' Confederation, have obviously supported this approach over the years. Mr Luman, for example, has offered an appropriate limit on the amount of the President's salary. The idea of a social tax cap has been supported by the Service Economy Chamber, which has offered that the ceiling could be the sum of three Estonian average wages. The initiators of the draft act propose an interim amount: we believe that this ceiling could rise to 4.5 times the average median wage. To make it easier to understand, I say that at this point this amount would be almost EUR 3500. We have proposed that the average median wage in the previous three quarters be taken into account. I would like to say in advance that the Government of the Republic's comment on our draft has criticised this approach and recommended that four quarters, the average of the year, be taken into account. The initiators of the draft act have no objection to this if such a solution is better. Based on the statistics compiled by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, we offer. Why am I emphasising the Tax and Customs Board? There are different statistical data on wage data in Estonia. We have proposed that the rate should be set annually by the Government of the Republic with its own regulation. It is important that this rate is linked to official statistics, as it would make it possible to rule out any political situation or any unthinking decisions in this area. And as you've heard, we're suggesting that you take into account the median wage rather than the average wage. In our opinion, the average wage reflects the economic situation of the Estonian economy and the Estonian wage earners in a slightly distorted way: the scissors between higher and lower wage earners are constantly increasing. We believe that the median wage is the wage of the average recipient of wages in Estonia, which must not be confused with the average wage of Estonia, and it illustrates the economic opportunities and changes in the basic mass of wage earners in more detail. How high the social tax ceiling should be, in this respect, the initiators of the draft act are flexible and hopeful for a good debate. In order for a wise decision to be made, it must take account in a balanced way of employers, employees and the state's interests, so the economy will benefit the most. If, during today's and future discussions, it is jointly found that the calculation could be based on another economic indicator or that the ceiling should be higher or lower, then the initiators of the draft do not object to the outcome being slightly different from what we have proposed. I would stress that the main question, however, is whether we are prepared for this debate today at all, whether we are prepared to impose a social tax ceiling and I would also dare to go further: are we even prepared for some radical decisions in taxation and, in a sense, dare to take a risk. Relevant international experiences are quite diverse. Some countries have this ceiling, some do not. The calculational backgrounds vary widely between countries, the social security systems vary widely, the value of societies and the longer fiscal policy objectives differ. So this question can still be approached only from an Estonian point of view. We need a favourable tax environment for top specialists here in order to compete in the national talent competition in order to bring high-paid jobs to Estonia and leave them here. This draft would give a clear signal to companies and investors that Estonia is not a land of uneducated and cheap labour, but is becoming a country where constructive and smart economic activity is assessed. Yes, we recognise that the direct impact of the draft on the state budget is, of course, negative, as social tax receipts are decreasing. If it were to be set at the level proposed in the draft ceiling, the Ministry of Finance calculated this loss to be EUR 87.1 million. But if, thanks to a favourable tax environment, jobs do not move abroad, but there will be more places with a high wage, then tax revenue will soon increase, additional revenue will also come in the form of consumption taxes. The long-term impact of the draft is undoubtedly positive. How quickly this effect occurs and how much it is exactly, it is difficult to calculate, it depends on many factors. However, according to the report of the Competitiveness Steering Group convened by the Ministry of Justice, it is estimated that a social tax ceiling would contribute to the creation of an additional eleventh job in addition to each of the ten jobs with a higher average salary. This draft has been judged and argued that it is in some sense a violation of society's social sense of justice. However, in our opinion, high-paid people contribute more to solidarity in the social system anyway than the recipients of the national average wage. Does this solidarity, then, have to be endless? We're not quite sure about that. However, it is certain that the draft has a positive demographic impact: a favourable tax environment for a highly paid individual contractor is an incentive for such a skilled workforce to move to Estonia and not wish to leave here. For an ageing and quietly shrinking society like us, it is vital that both the economic environment and the tax environment support these smart jobs with high productivity. We also admit that the social tax ceiling is not a magic wand that solves all the problems facing Estonia. Investors are also interested in other things: do they have the necessary labour force in Estonia, the general economic climate and many other factors. We know that Estonia is currently not attractive in the eyes of investors and something needs to be done. Maybe we should take some chances. In the opinion of the initiators of the draft legislation, the Estonian tax environment needs to be stimulated, stimulated in terms of social tax. We really think that the tax debate does not only have to take place once every four years before the elections, so then there will be a coalition agreement and the agreement will stop thinking about it immediately. It shouldn't be like that. Together, we need to figure out how to move Estonia forward. The smarter economy will take this forward. The initiators of the draft act have proposed one measure, if there are other innovative, new, bold approaches to it, then we are only happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U73	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Andres Ammas! The rapporteur of the Monetary Commission is Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I will settle Mr Ammas' claim that Estonia is not an attractive country in the eyes of investors. A Finnish forest company decided to invest 50 million euros in Estonia 50 million is a pretty good investment. I believe that the tax environment was one of the reasons why it was invested here. Probably seen here as a way to do business. To argue that Estonia is somehow lagging behind in terms of its attractiveness is, in my opinion, not quite right. Now to the bill. The Free Party Group initiated a draft law on supplementing the Social Tax Act on 11 April this year and we discussed it at our committee meeting on 31 May. At the meeting, Andres Ammas presented the bill, just as he did to all of you in this Chamber today. The main objective of the proposal to introduce a social tax ceiling of 4.5 times the median wage has already been introduced. The creation of new high-paid jobs in Estonia as an objective was certainly not challenged by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It's a question of how or how to get to it most accurately. The Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft at its meeting on 18 May. One of the reasons I have just referred to is that of purpose. At present, the draft provides for a regressive tax amendment jointly and severally for everyone. If more than 4.5 times the median wage is earned, the remainder would no longer have to pay social tax. One argument why the government did not support it is that it is targeted. In essence, business leaders, for example, who do not necessarily need it, would be supported. The example of Latvia, which introduced a similar social tax ceiling, is not, in fact, a very good example. They have reversed this decision, while conceding that the ceiling remained in force, but an additional tax was imposed on wages above a certain level. The impact on the state budget, Mr. Ammas, was enlightened here earlier. The government pointed out that in the first year the budget was estimated to be 63 million unspent by the initiators; the government estimated the budgetary impact to be just under 90 million. The source of cover was not proposed to it, except for the statement in the originator's explanatory memorandum that, in the long term, tax receipts would probably either recover or increase. The government did not see a deeper analysis or argumentation, nor did the initiator present it to us in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As regards the legal dispute as to whether this ceiling should be established at the level of the law or government regulation, the government indicated that, if any, it should be at the level of the law, not at the level of the Government of the Republic, as proposed by the initiator. The example of Latvia, which I briefly touched upon, was discussed in the Commission. The purpose of this draft is to increase the number of high-paid jobs, and as Ammas said, it should be encouraged that such people come to Estonia from outside, they are IT specialists, middle-level or top managers. Latvia's example does not support this in any way; according to these statistics, the number of high-paid jobs actually decreased by 2%. If you come back to the beginning, the objective of promoting the creation of high-paid jobs in Estonia is not disputed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and certainly not by the government. The question is how to achieve this in the smartest and most sensible way. Following these debates in the Commission, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to propose that the draft be rejected. There were six members of the Commission in favour of it and four against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U75	Now, the proposals. As I said, the doors and windows are open for alternative suggestions. One possible alternative is to exempt incoming workers from social tax, i.e. those who are hired in Estonia will not pay social tax because they do not use the benefits of our pension system either. At the same time, they should have health insurance: if they come here, they should be guaranteed all the services of the health insurance fund. This is, in my opinion, an alternative that is very clearly aimed at those people who are hired in Estonia, for example, for three years, five years, seven years. This would specifically encourage these people to raise their wages. They don't pay social tax, they don't use pension insurance, but they have compulsory health insurance. I think that this idea could be further developed by all the political groups and the government, which would be a much more targeted tax credit. We're actually talking about tax relief at the expense of someone else. But we could continue to reflect on this idea if we were to discuss alternatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U76	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! From the above, I conclude that Juhan Parts likes the Free Party considerably more than you do. Otherwise, you would develop this idea in the context of the draft we are talking about. I would like to ask you about your reasoning that, although you support the objective of the draft, you reject it because the members of the government coalition have different interests and it is difficult to fit into the budget in order to meet all the promises. I ask you, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, what are the different interests that it is difficult to keep in mind to fit into the budget? We'll know in the fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U78	Thank you. The political priorities of the government are recorded and reflected in the adopted laws. These have been taken into account in the country's budgetary strategy, which is known to be the country's four-year monetary plan, and you certainly know the preferences of the IRL, Reform Party, Centre Party and Free Party as the chairman of the party. The four-year money plan is in place, and putting 91 million into it is quite a difficult task if the budget were to receive so much less. However, this was not really the main argument. I was simply pointing out that we cannot make a decision about the source of cover if the source of cover is not actually proposed. If 91 million goes out of the budget, it is not enough simply to write in the explanatory memorandum that over the years tax receipts are recovering, or even increasing, such an analysis is not credible. This was also one of the government's arguments as to why they did not support the draft and why six members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support the proposal you have proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U79	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U80	Thank you. Just in case, I declare that I very much like the Free Party. It can't be any other way, because most people there are my former partymates, and certainly in the future we will be in the same party again. But I'll come back to the bill. This idea, which you have now proposed, is interesting in itself, but if it is implemented, we will create a worse competitive situation for our residents. Our interest is still more expensive jobs in Estonia, no matter who they work for. I'm coming back to that pilot project. I understand that basically, this pilot option might be an option. You represent the Reform Party here, and I can speak on behalf of the IRL, and I am referring to the fact that we also have one common experience in this area. Indeed, during the economic crisis, I had the idea of making tax free, i.e. VAT differences. The Reform Party argued against the fact that this is not possible; this leads to the withdrawal of money. In fact, we saw that in three years, this money brought in more money and this...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U81	Juhan Parts, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U82	And my question is this: do I get it right that the Reform Party basically supports this pilot project idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U83	Thank you for your question. The Free Party and the IRL have made up their minds now, haven't they? It's settled, too, as you said. I also comment on the statement of the Free Party that I prefer IRL and Mr. Onion. I said that if there is a proposal, come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, either Mr. Onions or Mr. Ammas, we will discuss it! We don't know if the proposal comes from the Free Party or the IRL. We do not have such a policy in the Commission. For a pilot, the answer is actually the same. The IRL Group can work on the pilot's idea and then discuss it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Hand over Mr. Onion or present a proposal together. We are always open for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U84	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U85	Thank you! I would not have asked if a good colleague from the coalition party, Mr Parts, would not have asked his questions. That led me to ask. I generally agree with the Juhan Parts who likes the Free Party. I also like the Free Party, and even more so, I also like the idea that the Free Party has come up with. But that's the kind of thing I want to ask. Did you not discuss in the Commission that one of the reasons why this so-called pilot and the whole idea cannot be implemented is a draft called the Juhani eggs bill among the people? There's just no money, and there's nothing you can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U86	Thank you. Formally speaking, this question goes beyond the scope of the subject. The draft, which you refer to, where the words 'Juhan' and 'eggs' sounded, has already, as far as I know, been legalised by the Riigikogu. This law should apply from the new year. I think that's the debate we held last week. It is a law in which both the tax administration and people are very much expecting it to be well implemented, so that no misuses occur anywhere. If we speak here again about the purpose of the law, then the purpose of this law is to help low-paid people to cope better in life and support them. Let's hope it all works out nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U87	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U88	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! In our explanatory memorandum, we refer to the overview of the ceiling on social contributions prepared by the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu in 2008. This concerns the countries of the European Union. It turns out that the ceiling was applied at that time in 20 European Union countries, and obviously it has not changed significantly. It is a measure to keep high-wage earners in employment. It is true that the rates are different and there are also various exceptions. To what extent has the Commission dealt with this analysis, or how are you still looking for better solutions if you do not in itself challenge the creation of high-paid jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U90	Thank you. Yes, I also have the analysis carried out by the Office of the Riigikogu and had other members of the committee. If we look at the decisions made by the government, then next year, social tax will fall on everyone, regardless of whether the person receives 500 euros or 5000 euros. This is a clear reduction in the tax burden, a reduction in labour costs. Agree that we could move forward with longer steps and, in fact, reduce social tax by not 1%, but perhaps by 5%, so that it would have a better impact. But just as income tax has fallen from 26% to 20%, I think, in eight or nine years, we still have to look here at the budgetary possibilities, the source of coverage for this measure. A reduction of 1% in social tax means about EUR 90 million less for the budget. We must take into account that we have a coalition government, where the three parties all have their own interests, their promises to the voters, which must be in the budget. I certainly support the fact that social tax will continue to fall in the future. This will help businesses create jobs. And I will not dispute the purpose of your draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U91	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Nobody disputes the objective, nor does the Commission. But how can we ensure that there are more high-paid jobs in Estonia? You probably discussed some alternative innovative options in the Commission. Mr Ammas said that we are not rigidly stuck in this proposal, just that Estonia needs to hurry. Did the Commission discuss any alternative options?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U93	No concrete proposal was made by the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We discussed, as I have already said, these issues, the arguments put forward by the Government and the arguments put forward by the Members of the Commission on the ground. In this sense, the door is open and all proposals are welcome on how more high-paid jobs could be created in Estonia. However, on this draft, the Commission decided to propose that the large Chamber reject it at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U94	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U95	Thank you. Dear waitress, I understand in this way that the government did not support this draft because no political agreement was reached. It takes money out of the budget at first, there are no sources of cover, etc. This idea has actually spread in Estonia and has been discussed for years. Now we reject it because the coalition certainly does not like the Free Party that submitted the draft, and we do not have a political agreement. My question is this: did the Committee on Monetary Affairs discuss that the amendment could be implemented as a pilot project? We do not know whether this will bring us more high-paid jobs. In other parts of the world, this "piloting" option is being used, for example, so that we do it for three years, let's see what the effect is, whether there will be more revenue. And if there is no effect, the amendment itself will expire. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs discuss this option? If we do nothing, we will continue to discuss this issue, as the chickens did for years to come, instead of trying out possible solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U96	Thank you. First of all, the argument of not supporting the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was certainly not that we did not like the Free Party. This is a claim that I am going to reject without a doubt this statement is certainly not correct. The originator is definitely not the problem. However, the proposal for a pilot project should be considered. If you propose to legitimize this pilotage for three years, then you have the opportunity. The representative of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is Mr Onion, pass on this idea more accurately, formulate it, and then we will definitely discuss it seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U97	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We understood your last response that if someone else had proposed, such as the IRL, there would have been another complexion. But that's it. You repeatedly said that no one opposed the need to find ways to encourage the creation of high-paid jobs. The Riigikogu is known to be a rubber stamp, and the Government of the Republic holds the entire monopoly of legislation. You also said that the Commission did not discuss or propose alternative measures that could be taken to achieve this objective. As far as you know, the Government of the Republic will deal with this issue and will at some point propose something other than social tax reductions? Indeed, 1% less social tax means 91 million euros less for the budget. If you proposed five million, then we have 450 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U99	Thank you. I didn't exactly hit what five million I proposed, I thought I was just proposing that social tax should fall, but it is not possible to reduce it immediately by 5%. It could be done over the years. It was an idea. I don't know, we don't have any point in talking about this rubber stamp in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. If we instill in ourselves that we're rubber stamps, we're actually underestimating our work. I do not agree that we are rubber stamps, and I believe that the President of the Riigikogu also agrees with this. He is, as far as I know, a strong supporter of parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U100	Totally!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U101	Thank you, good Chairman. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! What is the Committee on Monetary Affairs' analysis of the rigidity and flexibility of economic policies? Our economic space is changing all the time because of changes in security conditions. Estonia is a small country and is able to test various changes in a much more flexible way than Germany or another large country, for example. What prevents the coalition from reviewing from time to time, whether or not once a year, to analyse what might be our economic and financial policy challenges? Is this the main obstacle to the coalition being a rigid structure chained to the agreement for four years? Why can't we approach a variety of innovative, contemporary issues? That's something the opposition is trying to do. Why are coalition principles inverse?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U102	Thank you. No, the government is certainly not a rigid monster or, as you said, a rigid system. Both tax policy and the economic environment are monitored at all, and it is analysed every day. Take the initiatives launched by the Ministry of the Economy to reduce red tape. There is debate with entrepreneurs and hundreds of proposals have been made to improve our economic environment, our business climate. It is also a question of implementing some decisions in order to reduce bureaucracy in Estonia, at government level, some decisions are made at the level of the Riigikogu. I'm sure these proposals will eventually reach our tables. The criticism that economic space is not being analysed is not justified. On the contrary, the analysis is actually carried out and I dare to confirm that work is also being done to improve the entire business climate in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U103	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U104	Honourable President! Honorable colleague! It is indeed a pleasure that a discussion broke out in this Chamber, which goes beyond the usual borders of opposition and coalition. I have a practical question. It seems to me that a consensus is beginning to emerge that it would be quite practical to launch a pilot project. Which solution is more practical: is it here today dullly to vote this bill out of the procedure and come back to the Riigikogu with the same new one, first, of course, before the Commission, or to leave the bill in the process and continue to deal with it, whether or not developing it until the pilot project is presented or whatever? Which approach is smarter, more sensible, more practical?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U105	Thank you. The answer is in the heads of all respected delegates when, after a while, they start pressing the button. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has proposed that it be rejected at first reading by 6 votes: 4. What's the big hall doing, I can't see it coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U106	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U107	Thank you, manager. Good chairman of the committee! To calm Juhan Parts, I say that coalition partners have to meet in the summer anyway and look at tax matters. It is not normal that the share of the envelope wages has already accumulated EUR 157 million minus. And what you've been planning on earning with fuel and alcohol excise will remain a dream. In the summer, you will have to come together and review tax matters anyway, because it seems now that the state budget is not being fulfilled and you are not performing your duties. Perhaps you are also discussing social tax, because you have to admit that we have high taxes on labour. Maybe in the summer, coalition partners, get together. You don't have to have this debate in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U108	I think that was a point comment. I don't think there was a question mark behind a single sentence. Thank you for your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U109	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U110	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! I note in a few words that this bill should actually be seen in sync with another draft that we tabled some time ago. This concerned the amendment of the Income Tax Act, namely an increase in the tax-free minimum, which we would have offset by an increase in the personal income tax rate. Unfortunately, the hall rejected it. Obviously, the need to increase the personal income tax rate in order to alleviate the problem of low-paid people is not disputed by anyone in this Chamber, many admit. A slight increase in the tax rate could help. On the other hand, steps should be taken to meet entrepreneurs. What could be more attractive than the fact that we are boosting the creation of high-paid jobs and finally making this social tax ceiling a reality. Unfortunately, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has taken a rejection decision. This is another example of not recommending much of this discussion. Andres Ammas clearly confirmed that we are flexible. We are certainly open to any analysis of the fact that the ceiling we have proposed is not quite right. It is certainly up to the government to carry out further analyses and to look for a slightly different solution. We only want to stick to one principle: it is more adequate to discuss this limit on the basis of the median wage rather than the average wage, but how high this ceiling could be is the subject of discussion. The second question is that it is certainly possible to impose social tax ceilings and other such measures in other ways. We referred to an overview which says that there is some kind of regulation for regulating the labour market in most countries of the European Union, that it is the same or different ceiling or certain tax differences. This is certainly already the subject of deeper analysis. Surely we can look for an optimal solution. The government also points out in its opinion that in Scandinavian countries, temporary relief from social tax is granted to migrant workers who come into the country, allowing the use of highly educated and qualified professionals. The question immediately arises as to why this has not been proposed or discussed in Estonia. And the ideas that Juhan Parts put forward, too. In short, the drafters express their willingness to be flexible in realising this idea and we regret that, in any case, whether the Free Party likes or does not like it, we have not felt the flexibility of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, at all, we have not felt the flexibility to deal with most of the drafts we have tabled so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U111	There is no further wish for negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 214 at first reading. This proposal must be voted on in plenary. Honourable Riigikogu, to remind you so much that we are discussing the draft Act 214 on Supplementing the Social Tax Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, and the first reading is under way. The commission has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 214 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the commission's proposal, 8 against, 2 abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported and draft 214 falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U112	And now the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic regarding the abolition of the minimum social tax is submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party at first reading 227. The opening waitress is Andres Ammas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U113	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I am also honoured to have the final half hour on our agenda this week, with your kind involvement and participation, to fill the social tax issue. This time we have formulated our proposals in such a way that this is a draft decision of the Riigikogu, a proposal to the Government of the Republic. So here, colleagues who are not interested in the subject can now vote with their feet. Why did we choose this method to formalise our thoughts as a draft decision of the Riigikogu rather than a draft amendment of specific laws? The argument was purely practical. If our thoughts are to be understood and approved in this House, it is necessary to initiate the amendment of quite a number of laws. This is how we found that it is practical and professional and that the result will be of higher quality than the officials who are already trained and authorised to do so by the Riigikogu, for example, at the Ministry of Finance. What is the point of our draft decision? The aim is to reduce the burden on businesses, employers, when paying social tax. As in the debate on the previous item, I dare say now that there is no debate about this principle. This is one of the most important issues of Estonia's economic growth in the long term, and I think it is acknowledged by all political forces. At the moment, it is known that if an employee is working at a low burden, the employer will still pay the social tax on the minimum wage. Workers and employers would both be interested in flexible employment opportunities. However, it is costly for the employer to keep a low-cost employee on the payroll. This isn't a problem we've been looking for. We have received a lot of feedback on this topic during group trips throughout Estonia and from meetings with small businesses, especially in rural areas. It is for them that this issue is more important than for the big industry. The need to abolish such a minimum social tax has also been highlighted by the Estonian Employers' Confederation. Repeatedly and in my opinion very clearly, Riin Savi, the leader of the Estonian Traders' Association, whom I would like to quote here, has pointed out very well the nature of this problem. Riin Savi has written: 'A reduction in the minimum social tax rate should be achieved now, which will contribute to part-time recruitment and will significantly increase flexibility in the labour market. This would contribute to the integration of risk groups that cannot (or cannot/can't) work for various reasons, full-time young people, retirement age, disabled people, parents of small children, into the labour market. Given today's labour shortages, these are the important groups whose flexible recruitment would make a significant contribution to solving labour problems, especially in the field of trade and services. In this context, it is important to note that health insurance is generally guaranteed for the above risk groups, so the minimum social tax is like a double obligation. ' In the interest of the truth, it should be noted that this benefit is still possible for certain categories of workers, for example those who are raising children under three years of age or who have three children under 19 years of age. However, such a need or desire for part-time work may also arise for other people of working age and could increase the number of people employed. The current system is not good for employees because it does not allow a person to work at the same time in several part-time jobs. But especially in the countryside, there are certainly few or even seasonally busy specific jobs, in addition to the trade already mentioned, probably also in agriculture. This would also be likely to affect the population of sparsely populated areas, who may reasonably lack the opportunity to work at a sufficient burden, as employers are few and there is a large distance between work and residence. So, in our view, this change would increase employment and be good for both the employee and the employer, as this whole environment would become more flexible. The labour market would become more vibrant, the number of unemployed and the payment of envelope wages would probably be reduced. The current regulation pushes the inhabitants of remote areas with low employment to move to a city or another country, or even to deny it, often to look for opportunities to obtain the status of disability pensioner. In this way, we will miss some of the tax revenues, increase social costs, deepen peripheralisation and difficulty in coping, or, very simply, just saying: poverty. In our opinion, any measure that increases labour market activity and this proposed measure increases labour market activity will add to the hours worked officially and thus increase tax receipts. It also reduces the need and volume of socially painful legislative changes and delays their implementation. How many are affected by this change? Based on the data provided by Statistics Estonia in 2014, this could affect some 60000 part-time employees. I would also stress that it is precisely for regional development that the impact of such a decision is likely to be very positive. It is important to think about maintaining the pension and health insurance system, as the revenue of the state budget is slightly decreasing and this creates the need to find new sources of coverage, but this need is in the face of Estonian society now anyway. As in the case of the draft discussed above, we are convinced that, in the long term, the impact of this decision on the state budget will be positive: there will be additional jobs and hours, as well as the relevant tax receipts and, as there will be more wage money on the market, consumption taxes will probably also increase. It is very difficult to predict how much this additional tax revenue will be, without a specific application experience. In order to implement this idea, we have proposed, as a tool, that the current monthly wage and tax accounting arrangements should be replaced by hourly wage and tax accounting procedures for part-time workers. But it is already a tool to implement our specific idea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U114	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I also refer to the reference in our explanatory memorandum, which, based on the data provided by Statistics Estonia, says that in 2014 there were 59900 part-time employees. Now it's getting interesting. In fact, in the age group of 15 to 74, they were female 39000 and male 20900. That's a big difference! In particular, the Social Democrats, of whom only the President of the Riigikogu and Mr Raud remain in the Chamber, emphasise this aspect. What impact could this legislative amendment have on women's employment and possibly indirectly also on the pay gap?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U116	Thank you for a good question. I am deeply convinced that this draft would have a positive impact on women's employment and would probably also reduce the pay gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U117	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U118	Thank you, good Chairman. Good worker bee! Can you also conclude from your report that this bill supports the government's general policy to reduce social tax, and therefore may we be able to reduce labour costs, or come to the aid of the Reform Party in implementing their obsession? Unfortunately, they are not in the Chamber, they have announced their decision by voting with their feet. One representative is here, I hope, until the end of the debate. Have I understood the purpose of the decision correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U119	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have perfectly understood the purpose, the meaning and the impact of this decision. This is fully in line with the objective set out in the Coalition Agreement to reduce labour costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U120	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good penguin! Can you explain to me why this obviously necessary regulation has not been implemented in our society? We don't doubt it's necessary. What are these reasons? We're having some kind of glitch here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U122	Thank you, my good colleague. In my opinion, and not only in my opinion, this idea also sounded at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the minimum social tax is feared to be set out in fear of fraud. There is fear of the shadow economy and it is feared that the revenue from social tax will be lost to the state. To reduce this fear, this minimum has been set in due course. I think it is time to overcome this fear and to start trusting the working person and employer in Estonia a little more. To be afraid of being deceived all the time, although this may even be justified, is not right from the point of view of public policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U123	Thank you, Andres Ammas! All the difficult and difficult questions were answered. The Commission's waitress is Priit Sibul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U124	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague Andres Ammas has just presented the draft, the proposal to the Government of the Republic regarding the abolition of the minimum social tax rate, was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting on 31 May, where Andres Ammas also introduced it to us. In addition, the members of the Finance Committee were answering questions from the Chief Specialist of the Fiscal Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance Risto Kaarna and the Chief Specialist of the Tax Policy Department Kairi Ani. I'm not going to introduce the bill because Andres Ammas did it thoroughly. But let me just say a few words about what questions came up in the Commission. Andres has already mentioned this, too, that one question was how many people are affected by this bill. We have received the answer that it concerns everyone working part-time or minimum wage, and there are clearly more of these people in rural areas, as Andres said. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that there are currently 61500 people for whom the minimum rate of social tax is paid. The financial impact is about 5% of the income from social tax. Thus, on the basis of indirect data, it can be assumed that the impact on the state budget could be up to €131 million next year. We know that among these people, of course, there are those who actually receive the minimum wage, and that is certainly not the real effect in this sense. As I said, this is the expected maximum indirect effect. The question arose as to what legislation we should amend if the Government of the Republic were to deliver it, which Parliament would have to do. In addition to the Social Tax Act, other implementing acts should be amended. In the course of the debate, we have come to the conclusion that the Social Tax Act is probably not the only one that needs to be amended, but it is the most important one. The question also arose as to how the declaration would be made on an hourly basis. We didn't finally figure out what it would look like in our discussion, but I think the Tax and Customs Board would find a solution to that. Well, I guess that would just mean we're gonna have to work hours together. I expect there will be a month for the tax period. It is still the case that some people are not subject to the monthly rate, but are actually considered to be either pensioners and workers with reduced working hours or parents raising children under three years of age. So it can be done. The Commission decided that this draft could be in front of us today in the big Chamber, and I am the waitress. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U125	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have a question for you as a Commission waitress. You are a representative of the IRL in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, in the case of the 214 drafts before the debate, the Juhan Parts proposal to carry out a pilot programme to test the ceiling of social tax. Are you also going to come up with a pilot project proposal on the current issue to introduce this change for, for example, three months or three years and then to see if it increases flexibility in the use of labour or, instead, increases tax risks and the payment of envelope wages? Will you come up with such a pilot project proposal, and what does your party partner think of this matter by the Finance Minister? He's not gonna stand up to a pilot project like that, is he?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U127	Thanks a lot, Aivar! In the Commission, as you remember, there was no such debate. I understand your question is also due to the activity of Juhan Parts to ask questions about the previous draft. I can say that the IRL Group has not discussed whether to come up with such a proposal on this draft. I don't think that makes any sense. I hope that, as the leader of the group, I will reach a common understanding with the whole group that we will not come up with a proposal for a pilot project on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U128	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! You referred nicely to the fact that, regionally, regionally, this would be important in itself, because many part-time workers live outside large cities, in rural areas. But I do come back to another aspect, the gender difference, which according to Statistics Estonia is quite impressive. Did this point of view appear in the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and what conclusions could we draw on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U130	Thank you. Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't remember discussing these incomes and the payment of the minimum social tax rate from a gender perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U131	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U132	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I am very sad that you do not consider it reasonable at all to discuss this issue in your group. Since, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is now very precisely necessary to record who represents what position, could you point out the views expressed in committee by political parties? And did you listen to any interest groups, and if you did, what are their opinions? I am interested in whether employers have been asked what their position is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U133	Thank you. I said that, in addition to the members of the Commission, two representatives of the Ministry of Finance attended the meeting of the Commission. We didn't have any more guests, and we didn't ask for employers' views. In the case of this draft, I do not think anyone said their political group or their personal position. But one of the questioners was definitely Aivar Sõerd, who asked several questions. I'll see if I can find... We do not have such a specific protocol; we have a memo in the Commission. Who specifically asked for what was not written. It is also not explicitly stated in the domestic and operational rules that it must be stated literally who asked what question. Our views were revealed in the vote, the sentences that somebody designed are not the subject. This is the way we have agreed in the Commission, and we have come to the conclusion that this is reasonable. The protocol must be thorough, but not quite a verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U134	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I asked the previous waitress a question that was a little backwards and somewhat philosophical. I'll ask you the same question. Why do we not have such a very evidently correct regulation so far, although employers want it, and we also see here that this flexibility in paying social tax is needed? What has been the reason? What is your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U136	Thank you. Before I answer you, I will tell the previous questioner that the IRL will certainly discuss this issue. I didn't say we didn't think it wise to discuss it. I answered Aivar Sõerdi's question, and I meant that we don't think it's wise to launch a pilot project. I very much hope that we will not come up with a pilot proposal on this issue. But why? I think that the reason is simple, as the promoter of the bill said: the same fear is feared whether it is justified or not, that you know about tax fraud or the spread of envelope wages, the other way around is flexibility, but we should also take into account the extent to which the pension system and health insurance are solidarity-based in Estonia. Since we have not been able to deal with the issue of subsidiarity in conjunction with these issues, we will also look at it from the other side. I think the stakes and expectations should be comparable. Some people contribute very much to the solidarity system, but some very little, but in the end they stand in the same order of medicine. I think that's how injustice arises. In my opinion, this must be taken into account, these things must be looked at together. If we reduce revenue in the budget, it is clear that the queues for healthcare will become even longer. Is that reasonable? How many, and to whom will this result affect? These things are connected.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U137	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said you had two officials from the Ministry of Finance invited to the Commission. First of all, the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs could certainly have been invited, as the Ministry of Social Affairs is known to be responsible for employment issues. Secondly, for what reason did you not involve interest groups? Good legislative practice also requires all stakeholders to be heard. As we know, on 1 July we will start a work capacity reform and part-time work will certainly be a key issue if we want to talk about promoting the employment of people with special needs. For what reason, however, was it not important to involve the Ministry of Social Affairs and interest groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U139	Thank you. There was no such debate in the Commission. Neither did the author of the draft proposal. There was no question in the Commission as to why none of you were present. The matter was discussed, based on its own understanding. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U140	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U141	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm impressed by what I'm saying. We had long discussions on the amendment of the Home and Working Procedures Act and whether or not recordings should be made. As a compromise, it was found that the committees were going to make long roll-call protocols. And then you say that you at the same time in the committee decided that there would be no roll-call protocols, only voting will be registered in roll-call terms. Such an attitude is astonishing. Why such a decision, and was everyone in favour of such a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U142	Thank you. It has not been decided in the Commission that long protocols will not be made. It has been decided in the Commission that we will not make verbatim reports. If anyone wants to, they will review the Commission's protocol and if they want to clarify and supplement something so that their words can be written, it will receive a letter. That's what we decided. However, we and the Members of the Commission considered it reasonable that we should record the Commission's views that the final opinions would be written. And if anyone really wants to specify something in person, it will be done. All members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs agreed to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U143	Artur Talvik, the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, allows a question to be put to each of the two rapporteurs. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U144	I have a procedural remark. I'm sorry to discover one thing right now. The second page of the explanatory memorandum is not available in the material of the point being distributed in the hall. I was just checking. How can we overcome this problem now? I suspect that at least the decision on this item cannot be made until everyone has read the content of this second page.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U145	Let me see, I took it a little while ago and I got a copy of both pages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-09_U146	Let's check it out. Andres Ammas is right. The manager takes a break of five minutes and eight seconds. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.55 p.m.
