ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 8th working week. Transfer of enquiries and drafts. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U2	Honourable President-in-Office! Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Our group has a question for Mr Jürgen Ligi. The subject is the replacement and burden of teachers. The latest data are from the Ministry of Education and Research as of 2013, according to which there are 12892 teachers and only 10578 teachers in Estonia. The full-time and 0.4-time work involved 2176 teachers, with 3313 teachers working part-time up to 0.9. The average workload of teachers was 0.82 posts. At the same time, the problem in schools is at the same level as the problem of replacing teachers. It is such a practice that if someone gets sick, they give independent work, send children from one class to another, sit and peck their noses, 45 minutes gets past, and the hour is replaced. At the same time, the requirement of the National Qualifications and Examination Centre is that the state examination can only be carried out in schools where students have completed a certain number of hours of study. I mean, basically, a third of schools are said cruelly, but in fact it is not qualified as state exams; there has not been as many lessons as it takes to pass a state exam. Has the Ministry of Education and Research thought about solving this issue? Consequently, we have questions for the Minister for Education and Research and a proposal to put in place a teachers' buffer chamber where under-skilled teachers are on standby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U3	Thank you. No further drafts or enquiries are recommended. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and the Management Board processes it in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is in writing the first item items Ain Lutsian, Aivar Kok, AiMar Marss, Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar M, Messers, Ai Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar M, Aivar Sel, Andres Sepes, Andres Ammas, Andres Anvelt, Andres Hervelt, Andres Herkel, Andres Mets, Andres Mets, Andres Mets, Anne Sulling, Ants Laots, Arno Silla, Artur Talve Laes, Art Talve, Eerik Talve, Eerik-Nii Tals Talve, Eer Tal, Eer Tal, Eer Talve, Eer Tals Tal, Eer Tals Tal, Eer Tal, Eer Tal, Eer Tal, Eer Tal, Eer Tal, Eer Amam, Eis Amsam, Andre, Andre, Andres Amsam, Andre, Andre, Andre, Andres Am, Andre, Andre, Andre, Andre, Andres Amsam, Andre, Andre, Andre, Andre, Andre, Andre, Andre, Andre, Andre, Andres His Hers Mes Mes Mes Mes Mes Las Ss Ss Las Las Las Ss Las Las Ss Las Las Ss Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Lasssss Lasssssssss Las Lassssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Las Lassss LasLassssssssssssssssssss Before we go to this procedure, I will also briefly present the procedure. First a presentation by the representative of the drafters for a maximum of 20 minutes, then a presentation by the representative of the commission for a maximum of 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Only the representatives of the political groups and committees may speak in the negotiations. No amendments have been tabled and we will put the draft to the final vote. Let's go to the bill. First reading, the waitress is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, one might probably ask when it is so serious that one country's Parliament is shaping and expressing its opinion on developments in another country. After the restoration of independence, the Estonian Parliament has made such a statement and actually adopted the right one on several occasions. For example, when the Putin regime destroyed Georgia's territorial integrity, when the same regime started the war in Ukraine and annexed Crimea, but also for a number of other reasons. It is true that for the first time 66 Members from all the political groups represented in the Riigikogu have initiated a statement that is motivated by the fate of one person. A fate that the Putin regime is trying to avenge for not breaking into Ukraine by breaking. By doing so Putin's Russia is once again eloquently demonstrating to the world that it is not complying with international law. So what happened to Nadia Savtshenko? Nadia Savtshenko, currently elected as a member of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, is a military pilot in Ukraine who, as a military officer, fought for his homeland in the summer of 2014. On 17 June he fell into the hands of the separatists and was taken, with a bag in his head and his hands cuffed, across the border to Russia. He's been held prisoner there for over 600 days now. He has been accused of the deaths of two Russian journalists, has been held in a cage before a court of law, and has been subjected to atrocities that have been read only in books in a democratic and civilized world. The case of Nadia Savtshenko reflects the brutality of all modern war, all Russian aggression against Ukraine. Savtšenko did nothing but defend his country against the aggressor. In fact, in the legal circles, there has now been quite a long debate and a long debate on exactly which international conventions the Putin regime has violated with this inhumane story. Such academic-legal debates are being held, whether the military, whose other side is imprisoned for defending their homeland, and who, in the cuffs of his head and hands, is crossing the border, is a prisoner of war, who must be treated under the 1949 Geneva Convention, or may be treated as a simple criminal. Such debates and debates are certainly important given the scale of this whole thing. But I don't think we should be digging into these legal fine disputes today. Why? Because the whole Nadia Savtšenko process is a farce from the beginning, it's a lie from the beginning. It shouldn't have existed since the first minutes of this story, as if there wasn't a kidnapping of Eston Kohver. Through the kidnapping of Savtshenko, the so-called trial over which he was tried, the Putin regime has further damaged the image of its country, has done evil to its own people, as well as to its own military personnel. How? Perhaps it would be more appropriate to ask how, and whether, the Kremlin thought and thought that the violation of international law by one party could give another group an excuse in another place to make their prisoners of war the same unwarranted, just as morally. Unfairness is nothing more than injustice and violence. From this point of view, in Russia, the Putin regime has only one way out: to release Nadia Savtšenko immediately and find a political way to declare that it was a mistake to bring Nadia Savtšenko to justice alone. Nadia Savtšenko has become a symbol and it is very difficult for the Ukrainian people to forgive if something worse should happen to her. We do not know how much we can rely on the humanism of the Russian leaders, but let us rely on their self-preservation instinct. The story of Savtšenko can be fatal to them in one way or another. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's statement is one way of demonstrating that we are with Ukraine, we want Nadia Savtšenko released, we want to impose sanctions on Russian officials responsible for his imprisonment and illegal prosecution. Russia has proven once again with the Savtšenko case and has shown that it does not comply with international law, which is why it cannot be treated or accepted as a reliable partner in organising world affairs, as much as we would like on the other hand. As life has shown, it is not possible to deal silently with Russia. By adopting today's statement, we will make the vote of the Riigikogu heard in support of Nadia Savtshenko. Of course, I ask everyone to support Parliament's statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U6	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. I would now like to ask for a presentation of the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Frontland.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, I will bring to you the procedure as it looked in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. When the draft statement of the Riigikogu was initiated by 66 members of the Riigikogu in 195 cases, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs as the commission and fixed the deadline for amendments at 12 noon on 10 March. No amendments were tabled within the deadline for tabling amendments. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft statement of the Riigikogu at its meeting on 10 March. Some linguistic corrections have been made in the text of the draft act on the proposal of the language editor. The Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions by consensus: to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu a draft statement of the Riigikogu 195 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 15 March, to hold the final vote on the draft and to adopt the draft as a statement. Enn Eesmaa, Vice-President of the Commission, was appointed rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading. The draft statement of the Riigikogu 195 is discussed at one reading in accordance with § 154 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. A majority of the votes required for the adoption of the bill as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U8	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you either. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! The Riigikogu does not make too often statements concerning foreign policy and cases of international importance, such as the imprisonment of Nadia Savtshenko. The question is always where the border runs, but it seems to me that this initiative is certainly appropriate, and the representatives of the Free Party will certainly support it. It has also been said that there are many people whose rights are being violated for political reasons in the world, whether or not to make a statement about the gross violation of one person's rights. There are also a lot of outstanding cases, there are a lot of symbolic cases, and it would be good to deal with them all politically in some way. I would like to point out here that Mrs Savtšenko is, in addition to everything, a colleague of ours, that she is a member of the Ukrainian Parliament. Not only is he also a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on behalf of Ukraine. It is true that the Estonian colleagues have not met him in Strasbourg for obvious reasons, because he is imprisoned. Apart from everything else, it should be subject to such an immunity, and this immunity is what the Member States of the Council of Europe have decided to apply to the Members of the Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, apart from everything else, on the fabrication of this accusation, I would point out that Russia is also violating the rules that it itself has adopted internationally. In this regard, we must point out that the Russian delegation is excluded from the activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but the country itself is a member of the Council of Europe as an organisation, in relation to far greater violations concerning the annexation of Ukraine's territory, the events in Crimea. By the way, if we have had the issue of immunity acutely raised, it has also been raised in the key to what it is necessary for. It is probably not necessary in a democratic society in the form that we had in our time. But here is an example of what could happen to Members. It is true that it must be noted that Mrs Savtšenko was elected to the Ukrainian woods after she was arrested, detained and taken to the Russian side, but that does not change the matter. So this is our colleague. We also need to remind ourselves from time to time of our history, our past, going to the courtyard of the castle to the memorial board, where the names of all the members of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia who died and suffered as a result of the repression in the 40s have been recorded. All of this has unfortunately happened, and it will happen again in today's world. The Free Party will certainly support the adoption of this draft statement as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U10	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Eerik-Niles Kross Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U11	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I recalled today the ironic remark of the French President Jacques Chirac that the Baltic States could take this opportunity to remain silent. I'm very glad we're not going to shut up today. The famous German pastor Martin Niemöller once described his sermons on German society, and precisely the attitude of German society during the Nazi era. That's what he did after the war. He used a metaphor that almost sounds like a poem. It sounds like this: 'They first came for the bushes, and I didn't say anything, because I wasn't at all. Then they came for the unionists, and I didn't say anything because I didn't belong to the union. Then they came for the Jews, and I said nothing, because I was not Jewish. And then they came for me, and there was no one left to say anything. ' I am very glad that we are going to say something today. There are certainly many in this Chamber who do not know the details of Nadia Savtšenko's case, and probably there are also those who doubt whether Savtšenko is a pure case. Komsomolskaya Pravda has written about her that she is a killer machine in a skirt. Another newspaper, Tvoi Den, has written that she is the daughter of the devil, who is obviously an anti-Russian zombie. I do not want to go into the details of the Savtšenko case here, but I will mention three aspects that are important in the context of our statement today. First of all, this is an officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who was killed in a battle. This means that he is a prisoner of war, approved by all civilized nations under international war law, against whom the captor must act in accordance with the Hague and Geneva Conventions. There is probably no point in talking about the obligation not to take away the prisoners of war or the marks of rank, to preserve their income, which the captors pay back for their homeland, that would be a little ridiculous. But there is certainly a need to talk about the Geneva Convention of 1949, which, of course, is also a party to this Convention, which says that armed forces fighters who fall prisoner in a conflict area, even if one side does not recognise it as war, are prisoners of war. Here it may be appropriate to recall that Russia played a very positive role in the writing and agreement of the first Geneva Conventions. From 1899 to 1907, the Russian delegation was led by Professor Martens, known to us, and it was under Russia's leadership that concepts such as the Humanity Act and the demands of public conscience were written into military law. So it is very sad that Russia is increasingly abandoning its own good traditions and honoring the worst. Second. Savtshenko is accused of killing two journalists who died in a mortar attack near control posts. Anyone who has seen a few battles at close range will understand how absurd the accusation is that Savtšenko deliberately led a fire at journalists somewhere far away. Moreover, there is very credible evidence that Savtšenko had been a prisoner for an hour since these journalists died. And the third, perhaps the most important, point: the same absurd accusation of killing journalists is, in fact, extremely cynical. Time's up?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U12	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U13	Thank you. This charge is trying to play in our subconscious. After all, the Russian authorities must be allowed to investigate the deaths of Russian journalists. Think about it! More than 100 journalists have been killed in Russia since 1992. In at least 56 cases, the killing has been directly caused by the work of a journalist, 60% of the killings have been either Russian state officials or military personnel, and 11% of these cases have been solved. And now Savtshenko is being examined by the Russian Federation Research Committee. The chairman of this committee, Alexander Bastriykin, known to us, is the same man who, in 2012, took Novaya Gazeta's deputy editor Sergei Sokolov to the forest, threatened to kill him and promised that he would personally investigate the circumstances after his death. So much for the Russian authorities' concerns and concerns about Russian journalists. Today, however, we are taking a very important, symbolic step that confirms that we still have the ability to recognize good and evil. We are clearly against evil here, because being silent would mean adopting humiliation, not only the humiliation of Savtšenko, but also the humiliation of Ukraine, and the humiliation of all countries and peoples who respect freedom and humanity. The Estonian Parliament is the first national parliament to approve a statement in favour of Savtšenko and also calls for his abusers and persecutors to be subject to sanctions. I believe we are not the last one, but even if we are the only ones, at least those who are voting in favour of this statement today will never be able to say that when they came for Savtšenko, we were not silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U14	Thank you. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U15	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I join the previous speaker and I am also pleased that the Estonian Parliament wishes to speak on one issue or another. But first, I'd like to introduce you to history, which is very interesting. The statement of the Riigikogu is, in fact, a rare form of work, and this statement has been just a 16th statement since 1999. I'll give you a brief introduction before you come to the subject. According to my memory, the Riigikogu's statement about carrying out hospital reform in Ida-Virumaa was once initiated. This, by the way, is what we are discussing now, this is about the Narva hospital, a very important issue. This issue was raised in 2000 and was sent out for a long time. We can talk now, can't we? A statement about the situation at the Citizenship and Migration Board offices of anyone who wants to, it remembers. In 2000, there were huge queues, the ambulance was standing by KMA's offices, people just collapsing. It was some kind of horror. This application was rejected. A statement was adopted on Estonian agriculture, where justice was demanded for our countrymen. What this justice is and what it looks like is what we now see very well. But the statement was accepted. The statement on the future of the institutions of the European Union was also adopted. The main sentence was that the Riigikogu was not in favour of creating new European Union institutions. They've been designed as many since then. All kinds of international stuff. Parliament, of course, had its say, the word 'right' and the possession of an opinion, that is undoubted. Environmental risks associated with the planned pipeline to the Baltic Sea. We lost about 20,000 jobs and about a billion kroons in the money at the time because of the hysteria that began and ended successfully. That statement was accepted. With one statement from the Riigikogu, I thought it went strangely. It was about Ukraine and the genocide that was committed there. Somehow it was rejected. I just can't explain it, maybe someone can say something. Everyone else was accepted. Georgia has been the most popular topic in the Estonian Parliament. Three statements have been made: military aggression, in support of sovereignty and territorial integrity, in relation to the situation in Georgia-Russian relations. What's changed since then? Saakashvili is a wanted criminal in Georgia, there are other political parties, there are other people in power, and Sarkozy suddenly announced to the world in 2009 that he was leading such an international research brigade that aggression was in favour of Georgia. That's it. Three statements before we know anything in particular. Another interesting statement to support democracy in Belarus. From what I understand, of course, before the elections in Belarus, we wanted to have a say. Lukashenko continues to rule successfully, sanctions have been lifted from Lukashenko. In fact, I say that he has not changed, but now he suits you, us, Europe, everyone. He's the leader of a civilized country now. But there was a statement. Statement of the situation in Chechnya also accepted. Good. Today, Chechnya is the most advanced of the North Caucasus republics in Russia. There is still Kadyrov, not a father anymore, but a son already. So a lot of good was the statement, very much. Then there are such statements that are acknowledged, spoken of the Communist regime, said thanks to Estonian citizens, etc. I mean, the statement of the Riigikogu is an expression of emotion, it is very well understood. But why do these emotions occur in one case and in the other case they don't? It's a question. You read the papers and watch TV. You know that, last year, 156 journalists were arrested in Turkey, 32 of whom are still under arrest. Two journalists, who simply printed the article with pictures that were commented on, I don't have time to explain it to you for a long time, can be sentenced to life imprisonment. Joseph Biden has spoken for scientists who are also being dragged into the bucket. The Estonian Parliament is quiet, it's okay. And war with the Kurds in South Turkey is also a normal thing. Recently, in January, the world found out that 47 people had been executed in Saudi Arabia. It's a common thing, they execute hundreds of people every year. It was this time that there was one among them who was spoken by the entire countries and by very high politicians. But people are being executed and very cruelly executed. What is Parliament doing? He sits there and he's quiet, there's nothing to say. Julian Paul Assange has been incarcerated for many years. For what? He's fighting for freedom of speech. Has Parliament supported him? He told us about what was going on in Guantanamo Prison. People are being tortured. In the case of Guantanamo, has the Estonian Parliament spoken? No, it's not. Abu Ghraib, as you very well know, is a prison where people are being tortured. Those shots and pictures of how it's done are there. We are not taking the floor on this matter. And the death penalty, there are many examples. The war in Afghanistan and Iraq. The most modest estimate: only 120,000 civilians died in Iraq due to NATO forces' activities. We'll shut up. So in this case, I'm only interested in one thing. Why, on one occasion, will Parliament speak and make a statement, but in other cases, when it comes to the protection of a person's life, freedom and rights, we will not do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U16	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Mart Nutt Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U17	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Just a factual statement about the previous speech: the declaration on the Holodomor was the first international statement adopted by the Riigikogu. This took place on October 10, 1993. Therefore, it did not make sense to make the same statement for the second time, and that was why it was withdrawn. So it cannot be said that the Holodomor has not been declared by the Riigikogu. Yes, it is. But now again to Ukraine's issues and closer to time. Nadia Savtshenko in Russia in detention and, probably, in conviction, we can highlight three circles of problems. First of all, the personal level. This demonstrates the total indifference of the Russian authorities to the fate of man. The man is simply a toy in the hands of the ambitions of the Russian authorities. It's not really about Savtšenko. Rather, the symbolic act is designed to create fear for all those who dare not obey Russia's will. The person in Savtshenko cannot be Russia's goal in itself. The senior lieutenant female pilot symbolizes Russia's threat against all those who dare to confront Russia. Secondly, the level of relations between Russia and Ukraine. Russia's aim is to show that Ukraine is not the right country. Ukraine cannot protect its citizens; Ukraine does not have an independent role at international level, but its existence depends on the mercy of Russia. The detention of Savtshenko shows Russia's desire to show Ukraine its place, to humiliate this sovereign state. Third, the international level. Russia has been ignoring international law for some time. Russia has called into question the current architecture of international security. Detaining a military man from another country who fulfilled his duty to protect his own country in the territory of his own country, while denying his status as a prisoner of war, Russia again shows that he is not subject to internationally recognised standards. This shows once again that Russia is a threat to the free world, as Russia's violation of international law towards other countries has unfortunately been transmitted with this symbol. The IRL Group supports the statement in support of the release of Ms Savtšenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U18	Thank you. Sven Mikser, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the previous speakers argued that we make these statements selectively. Of course, because there are many problems in the world, Estonia is a small country and Estonia has a small parliament. We choose the topics to deal with, we choose those that are closer to us, those that are more important to us, and that does not reflect in any way the indifference towards those in need or the crisis problems that occur in the world. Aggression against Ukraine has certainly touched Estonians, Estonian citizens, the Estonian state from an extremely close distance. The call for the release of Mrs Savtšenko is justified, both legally and morally and humanly, and, of course, this is also an important political issue for us. If this same speaker tried to claim here that the foreign policy statements adopted by the Estonian Parliament had no impact or result, then I think it is certainly important for us to remember the imprisonment of Eston Kohver, the kidnapping of the Russian special services. I believe that at the time, both moral support for us and certainly a very important political factor in releasing Eston Kohver was that the international community was not indifferent to this case, expressed solidarity with the Estonian state and, above all, with the illegally imprisoned defence police officer. I think that our support for Nadia Savtshenko, for all the international institutions and, hopefully, for the other parliaments, will help bring closer the day when her illegal imprisonment will end and she will be able to return to her homeland, to her loved ones. Members of the Social Democratic Party Group will, of course, support the adoption of this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U20	Thank you. Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U21	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I am pleased to see that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, like the rest of our Riigikogu, supports this statement. Here, the question was raised as to whether it would be worth making such statements. I couldn't figure out if there were too many or too few. Of course, there is reason to make such statements. We cannot respond to everything in this world, but as a small country, we must attach great importance to, defend and support both justice and justice. International law, as our former President has said, is a small-state nuclear bomb. We will never be as strong as our neighbor, we will never be able to act so brutally and in violation of international law, and we do not want to do so. On the contrary, our weapon is the same right and justice. Pay attention to such injustices, inconsistencies, aggressions, inhumane behaviour, crimes against humanity, that is what we should be doing more and more actively than before. When we make a statement to protect one person, it does not mean that it concerns only one person in the world. It concerns all mankind, all those suffering from injustice, aggression, and violence. This means that we touch, we condemn and we deplore all that Russia has done. Russia, which has turned its back on international law, on justice, which has become aggressive, does not care about international agreements or conventions. With this statement, we are paying attention to all of this. I am very pleased that the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia does not forget justice and justice and makes such statements. As I said, we are wholeheartedly in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U22	Thank you. The negotiations are over. The commission's proposal is to put the bill to the final vote on 195 today. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu statement 'In support of the release of the illegally imprisoned Nadia Savtshenko', draft 195. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. The statement of the Riigikogu has been accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U23	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the second reading of the Bill 159 on Amendment to the Public Transport Act, initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi and Urve Palo. Mr Ken-Marti Vaheri, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The discussion of the second reading of the draft amendment to the Public Transport Act initiated by two members of the Riigikogu was held in two sessions of the Economic Committee: 7 March and 10 March. On 7 March, Deniss Borodich, representative of the initiators of the draft, Ain Tatter, Head of the Road and Railway Department, Ministry of Economic Affairs, as well as Ilmar Tomusk, Director-General of the Language Inspectorate, and Andres Herkel, representative of the authors of the amendment, were invited to the meeting. First of all, an amendment tabled by four members of the Riigikogu. According to this, taxi drivers would exceptionally have the right to refuse to provide proof of language proficiency until 1 April 2019 when applying for a service card. For users of this exception, the local authority shall issue fixed-term service providers' cards. This would ensure a sufficiently long period for the acquisition of Estonian, while all taxi drivers would be able to use the service card from 1 April. Ilmar Tomusk, the representative of the Language Inspectorate, gave a very good overview of the practice of the Language Inspectorate so far. According to him, there have been few complaints from clients about the lack of Estonian language skills of taxi drivers in a city of the Republic of Estonia called Narva, where the Russian language environment dominates. Basically, they haven't been received at all. At the same time, thanks to the new Public Transport Act and the requirements laid down in it, there has been a significant increase in interest in the acquisition of Estonian since February 2015. If the requirement is excluded from the law, Mr. Director-General believes that many who have so far expressed their wish to learn Estonian will abandon it. However, he considered it necessary to give additional time to acquire the necessary language skills. Following the discussion, alternative wording was proposed as a possible compromise, according to which the deadline would not be 1 April 2019 but 1 January 2018. We also heard from a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Ministry does not support the amendment tabled by four members of the Riigikogu, as it considers that the Public Transport Act should not solve the problems of the Language Act. It was pointed out that before the amendment of the Public Transport Act, which was only some time ago, mostly in 2014, there was a broad debate during the preparation of the draft, in which a number of target groups were very actively involved, and that the requirements contained in the law have in many respects been proposed by them and approved by Parliament. At its meeting on 7 March, Mr Vaher, Member of the Commission, proposed that the decision be postponed in order to find a compromise solution. The chairman of the commission, Kivimägi, repeated the same. The Commission decided to continue the debate at its next meeting on 10 March. However, on 7 March, the procedural decisions were taken, which were as follows: to propose a second reading of the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 15 March (consensus), to send the draft to third reading when the second reading is closed, by 17 March, with a proposal to put the draft to the final vote (as well as by consensus). As decided, the debate continued on 10 March. A representative of the initiator of the draft, as well as a representative of the authors of the amendment, and Sander Salmu, Head of Transport and Traffic Department, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, were invited to the meeting of the Commission. A brief overview of what happened during the debate. The author of the amendment Andres Herkel and the Member of the Commission Vaher stated that excluding the requirement to provide proof of language proficiency from this law when applying for a service card is not the best signal for the public, but especially for those who have started language training or have expressed a desire to study the language in order to continue serving their clients. Therefore, the compromise option created by the Commission, which postpones the application of the language requirement of § 57 of the Public Transport Act and gives a reasonable transitional period, could be taken into account. It was proposed on 1 January 2018. A distinction should also be made between the general language requirements and the requirements for applying for a service card. Many taxi drivers in Ida-Virumaa are motivated to acquire the necessary level of language skills within a reasonable period of time, which could be 1.5 to 2 years. At the meeting of the Commission, the initiators of the draft act supported the proposal to stick to the first reading of the draft text, which is to be remembered as repealing these requirements in the Public Transport Act. This means that they do not support an amendment tabled by four members of the Riigikogu, while supporting the inclusion of an enforcement clause. The members of the Centre Party Group also held the same position at the committee meeting. The chairman of the commission, Kivimägi, explained that language proficiency requirements in taxiing, as well as in many other areas of life, are regulated by the Language Act as a general law, and are regulated by the decree of the Government of the Republic "Requirements for the knowledge and use of the language of an official, employee and self-employed person' adopted on this basis. With this regulation, for example, the B1 level Estonian language proficiency requirement has been introduced in 11 areas, including taxiing, with the language proficiency requirement probably duplicated as one of the precedents of the Public Transport Act adopted in the previous parliamentary term. He also noted that the B1 language proficiency requirement was still valid in full, without reservations. The service provider, i.e. the local government, as well as the Language Inspectorate, retains the right to demand and verify compliance with the requirement of Estonian language proficiency, as a discretion in issuing, checking or filing a service card. The Ministry of Economic Affairs repeated its position. The proposed amendment was not supported, i.e. it did not support maintaining the current requirement in the Public Transport Act. The Ministry of Economic Affairs also did not support the transitional period, but considers it right to exclude from the law the requirement to present a B1 level certificate in Estonian to apply for a service card. It also reiterated the idea of keeping in force the language requirements in force since 1989, which means an unchangeable administrative burden for the Language Inspectorate, who supervises compliance with the language law in the light of its work plan, administrative capacity and resources. In summary, the debate was pleasantly meaningful, on the other hand it was pleasantly hot. By voting on the amendments, the proposal aimed at delaying the implementation of the current legal requirement for 1.5 to 2 years, but only one member of the Commission, was opposed by seven people. This means that the amendment was not supported. The other compromises at the table of the Committee on Economic Affairs were also not supported. The Economic Commission therefore maintained its first-reading amendment, which excludes this language requirement from the Public Transport Act. At its meeting on 10 March, the Commission also maintained all the procedural decisions that I am going to repeat here. A second reading was proposed today, and if the second reading is completed and the Committee on Economic Affairs proposes that it be completed, then the draft will be sent to the third reading by 17 March. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U25	Thank you, dear waitress. You also have a series of questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The fact that the amendments proposed by the members of the Riigikogu are not taken into account still happens. But how do you appreciate the fact that the very long and very well-argued explanations of the Head of the Language Inspectorate were not taken into account in substance? All the more so since, with his help, there was an optimal proposal on the ground, which would, on the one hand, postpone the deadline but, on the other hand, maintain the motivation for language learning that this requirement has actually created.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U27	Thank you for your question. These arguments were all examined at the meeting of the Economic Commission. Yes, as I said, the Director General of the Language Inspectorate considered it right to keep this language requirement in the law. For his part, he suggested that it would be reasonable for those who have started learning the language and take it seriously to allow 1.5 to 2 years to achieve B1. On the basis of this proposal, one possible compromise wording was formulated. However, after the discussion I described, the substantive debate and the various arguments which were put forward, the Commission decided to maintain its decision at first reading that this language requirement would be removed from the Public Transport Act, although it was written there quite recently with the approval of the previous Parliament. It was also decided, on the basis of the recital of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that the general language requirement would remain in force. What else can I say about the speech of the Director General of the Language Inspectorate? He also gave us an overview of what has been done in various municipalities. For example, some progress has been made in the city of Tallinn; there is progress in the language skills of taxi drivers. The Language Inspectorate shall also carry out inspections to this effect. The city of Narva is unlikely to go so easily, especially due to the general language environment. This is why there have been no complaints about the language skills of taxi drivers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U28	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U29	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good colleague! I don't know what time it takes to give someone. For 25 years there has been time to learn Estonian. I don't know what time it is! I do not understand this lukewarm attitude towards protecting the requirements of the Estonian language. If we are talking about the fact that the requirement remains in the language law and that it is therefore in the law of public transport as if it were in double, it is not true. Indeed, the language law states that the B1 requirement applies to certain areas of life, and these areas of life are laid down in a government regulation. The government regulation can, in principle, be amended every week. How can you convince me that now it's not going to be a slice to relax, or the government won't quietly change this demand for cab drivers for level B1 later?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U30	Thank you for your question. I am here as the representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs to give an overview of the debate in the Commission. I cannot give any assurance on behalf of the Government of the Republic. Secondly, the language law does not impose a B1 level requirement on certain service providers, but, as you have also pointed out, actually establishes a regulation of the Government of this Republic. The language law provides the basis and also gives the power of attorney to the Government of the Republic and the Government of the Republic has used it. This regulation is indeed in place. The latest version of this is from 20 June 2011 and it is very clear here who needs to speak the official language at a specific level. As I pointed out in the review, the Committee on Economic Affairs, in the run-up to the first reading, decided to delete this requirement from the Public Transport Act. After discussions, debates and also a compromise, it was maintained that the Public Transport Act should not state that a certificate of language skills must be required from the applicant for the service card. This means that a person who wishes to provide taxi services from 1 April 2016 is not required to provide a document certifying his or her national language skills when applying for a service card. I can also add that it is up to the Language Inspectorate to carry out certain checks. As explained by the inspector, they do so according to complaints, according to the complaints that come from customers. If there are no complaints from customers, there will be no cross-checks, as the administrative burden of inspection is already high and the resources are scarce. If you ask what are the main so-called problem municipalities, yes, this border town has been discussed. At the same time, the city of Tallinn is not without problems, although the Language Inspectorate has confirmed that it has improved here recently.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U31	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U32	Thank you! Good Ken, you mentioned in your report that the Commission expressed the view that language requirements should be the same in other areas, in accordance with the language law. However, I have a question about the same area. As we know, another draft law, the so-called Uber Act, is also in the process. It concerns the provision of a driving-sharing service, which is, in substance, a taxi service provided by private individuals. Shouldn't those requirements be the same there? Today, there is nothing to stop anyone from driving the Uber in Narva, and there is no need to meet the language requirements. Should it not be equal treatment for both drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U33	Thank you for your question. Indeed, a draft law amending the Public Transport Act has been introduced into the parliamentary procedure, which is not only aimed at legitimising the service of driving distribution in the Republic of Estonia, but also contains a number of specific proposals to review the requirements imposed by the Public Transport Act on persons who provide taxi services. The question concerns the passenger card, but also the vehicle card and there are other requirements. The aim is to amend the law, in particular because it is necessary to harmonise requirements for service providers as a result of modern applications and the welcome spread of the collaborative economy. Although we may not be able to place an equal sign between these two services on the one hand and taxi services on the other, there are several analogys. I think that with regard to this draft, to which you referred in your question, the Committee on Economic Affairs will certainly discuss the whole subject of the service card, including language proficiency requirements. These discussions are ahead of us. As far as I know, a number of companies, such as Estonian Taxify, have established their own internal rule that the driver must be able to provide customers with at least an elementary level of service. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the linguistic contact between the customer and the driver is significantly smaller in the case of a driving-sharing service, since the route from point A to point B is set in an electronic environment and the journey is essentially possible without any change of words. This cannot be done in the case of a taxi service, as the customer has to express his clear will, which is generally presented orally. That's the difference. But yes, the question is quite right and we will discuss these different requirements in the Committee on Economic Affairs in relation to the draft harmonisation of the requirements for driving-sharing services and taxi services.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U34	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am very embarrassed to hear a representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs say that we do not insist so much on learning the Estonian language now, let those who want to learn learn it themselves. I don't think this is appropriate for the Riigikogu. But my question is this: did the Committee on Economic Affairs also consider asking the Committee on Culture for an opinion? After all, the Committee on Culture deals with teaching the Estonian language in a number of areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U36	Thank you for your question. On my proposal and with the agreement of the other members of the Commission and of our good members of the Economic Commission for Economic Affairs, we have decided to hear precisely the Director-General of the Language Inspectorate. He is the right person to give an overview of how meeting the language requirements in Estonia has actually gone, and also give recommendations on what regulation might be. The opinion of the Committee on Culture was not requested by the Committee on Economic Affairs. I assume that this was not the case when the Public Transport Act was amended in 2014, when the law included the requirement that we are currently debating. On the question of why the request was then written in, the reply of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the previous composition of the Committee on Economic Affairs was that the amendment was preceded by a very inclusive debate between stakeholders. It was found necessary to regulate in a specific law all possible requirements that a taxi driver must comply with. To have them all together. With today's change, we're taking out a claim. The language law still requires that the Estonian language be known if you want to serve people. The local authority is the supervisor on the one hand, the Language Inspectorate on the other. But, as I said, I represent the Committee on Economic Affairs here, and I have brought to you as far as possible the opinions of the various parties and members of the committee, as well as the views of the initiators and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But, yeah, that's the current result from these debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U37	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U38	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Yesterday, the Prime Minister answered questions about Ida-Viru's employment in front of the big hall. It was said that the situation was sad, while the Prime Minister indicated that the person did not have to work in the municipality of his place of residence. This means that the government has very much welcomed the fact that a resident of Ida-Virumaa is looking for work elsewhere in Estonia. But we know that the big problem is the language issue. People don't speak Estonian, even though they might be born here. The Economic Commission should be best placed to perceive the problem of employment. What is the argument that the Committee on Economic Affairs does not think about the future prospects of people when deciding on the language requirement? Why is it known as embarrassment and not treated as a matter of honor to demand knowledge of the language of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U39	Thank you for your question. The discussions of the Economic Commission examined the arguments on which the language requirement is to be removed from the Public Transport Act. The main argument was that this would probably be the only case where a special law provides for a language requirement when applying for a single licence, while other groups of servicers would be subject to the general language law requirement specified by the Government of the Republic decree from 2011. I gave you an overview of the discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Yes, it was pointed out on several occasions that this requirement is currently in the law and should have come into force from 1 April 2016 and that dozens, if not hundreds of people, have started studying Estonian or at least expressed their wish for it. If the law is now amended, it may be feared that these people will lose their motivation and stop learning the language, and that, as you referred to in your question, their lives may be made more difficult in the future if they decide, for example, to change their profession. It must be said that the discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs have shown, and probably there are different perceptions in this Chamber too of the kind of signal we give to society as a Parliament. There are those who refer specifically to employment and confirm that a major employment problem would have arisen since the entry into force of the Act on 1 April this year. There are, however, different opinions which, above all, warn that we are not giving the right signal to society with this change. The Committee on Economic Affairs always makes its decision after the discussions and the decision is before you. As has already been said from this remote control, we will come back to the Public Transport Act in any case, we will also come back to the taxicab requirements and probably, in this connection, to the issue that is being discussed today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U40	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U41	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! You mentioned that a lot of people who wish to get this permit have gone to language courses and also paid for language courses. I don't think it's possible to say they have a lack of motivation. But that's it. It seems to me that although this bill consists of two paragraphs, it is quite difficult for very many to understand. Can you specify, in the interests of the verbatim and in the public interest, point 1, whether the language requirement for taxi drivers will be removed or not by adopting this law? Does the Language Inspectorate have the right to check these people's language skills or not? It seems to me that some of the ambassadors have not understood this. They say the Estonian language is in danger, they say there are other threats, please explain it one more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U42	Thank you for your question. I'd love to explain. The requirement of the Language Act, which concerns different groups of employees and servants, has been in force since 1989. As I pointed out, the Government of the Republic's Regulation since 2011 provides that service and sales workers, whose job includes the direct and regular servicing of consumers, the provision of professional information or the responsibility for safety at work, must be able to speak at least at level B1. No one is going to change that with today's bill. What is amended is the requirement that a driver who provides taxi services must submit a document certifying, inter alia, the knowledge of the national language in order to obtain a driver's card is written in § 57 of the Public Transport Act. The law also requires a B1 level. This requirement would now be cancelled on the proposal of the draft law, i.e. a service provider card would be granted if all other conditions were met. A certificate of proficiency in the national language is not compulsory. But the requirement for language skills under the general law, the language law, is in force, and the local government can also make it its own responsibility. Well, in practical life, we can imagine, in fact, it is not done, but it is hoped that the Language Inspectorate will carry out monitoring-control mainly on the basis of complaints.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U43	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really impressed about all this stuff. Otherwise, the language problem would not be discussed if it were not. The fact that taxi drivers do not speak Estonian has not been able to learn it for 25 years shows that the language law is not being complied with, the government regulation is not being complied with, there is no control. And if you think that this requirement should be removed from this law too, then the last motivation and opportunity to put pressure on these people to learn the Estonian language will disappear. Such a debate is completely speechless. We have a national language and we must ensure that this official language is also used. This is the task of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U45	What's next? Will we next remove this requirement from the language law, or will the government withdraw its order?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U46	Good colleague, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U47	Thank you for your question. I think I introduced the discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs with sufficient depth. There were also comments that you were currently concerned with, but there were different opinions. The debate was rather time-consuming and, at times, heated and clearly constructive for Parliament. In the final vote on the formation of positions, I reported to you. I very much hope that this scenario, which you proposed last on your question, will never be implemented either by Parliament or by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U48	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The language requirement was introduced as a result of the work of the previous Riigikogu and it was certainly not done with an easy hand. The requirement was considered necessary to ensure the national language skills of taxi drivers. Why are we processing this bill now? This was explained very clearly by the fact that the language skills of the taxi drivers in Narva do not meet the B1 level and they do not receive a service card. The logical conclusion is that there are no service providers. As you said, the Language Inspectorate is only monitoring on the basis of complaints and there have been no complaints from that area. It follows that taxi drivers in Narva do not need to know the necessary level of language and do not really have the motivation to learn the Estonian language. If the Estonian language were to be known for the so-called service card, it would obviously improve motivation. My question: what do you personally think this change will lead to in reality? Will taxi drivers learn more or less Estonian as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U50	Thank you for your question. I am the representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs before you in this panel, but I also mentioned in my review the opinions of the various members of the committee, including mine. If you want me to repeat this, I expressed the view in the discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs that this decision could have a demotivating effect. This may reduce the inspiration of people who have expressed their wish to learn the official language or have already begun to acquire it, knowing that the previous composition of the Estonian Parliament has included this requirement in the law. We have tried to explain in the Committee on Economic Affairs why this was done. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has argued that they intervened very little, even minimal, in the Public Transport Act at the time. Stakeholders came to the table of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the previous parliamentary term and expressed their views. As regards the identity of the attendant card and the requirements for taxi drivers, the idea was to try to integrate all the requirements that a taxi driver must meet into the specific provisions of a single law. Then it's clear to him. I want to drive a taxi, I have a proper vehicle, I am a person, I am able to serve people, the conditions imposed on me are these, and these are clear, the matter is clear, I meet the conditions and I can start driving. This was the principle, as I understood these explanations, and, accordingly, this requirement was recorded in the Public Transport Act. But now in the Committee on Economic Affairs, after discussions, a final decision has been reached that this requirement should be removed from the list of conditions for granting a service card in the Public Transport Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U51	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The amendment tabled by four members of the Free Party meant this... Excuse me?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U53	Oh, I see. Then, plus one amendment tabled by an IRL member would have meant that within three years, or until 1 April 2019, taxi drivers would not be obliged to speak Estonian at B1. Consequently, there is no right to control it either. If the law states that for three years there is no need to submit such paper and there is no obligation, the decree of the Government of the Republic, which requires language skills, does not matter because it is a so-called sub-document. The law is valid and there is no obligation to speak Estonian. Three years is a very long time. I ask, did Andres Herkel, who went to the committee to defend this bill, tell us why they are prepared to create a situation where all Estonian taxi drivers do not have to speak Estonian for three years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U54	Mart Nutt is a member of the IRL, he's the fourth person.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U55	Thank you for your question. You yourself were present in the committee during these discussions, and you know that we tried to find a compromise solution. We wanted to give people who have started learning the language a reasonable transitional period during which they could acquire the Estonian language to be ready to serve clients. This included this amendment, which was subject to a revision of the deadline. Yes, the formal proposal has been submitted with the deadline of 1 April 2019, but it was amended on the basis of a proposal from several members of the Commission by 1 January 2018. The point is, however, that no one loses the requirement of the language law. However, I dare say that it is not quite correct to say that this amendment will result in the language requirement being invalid. I understand the amendment so that taxi drivers who wish to receive a service card may exceptionally receive it even if they do not currently speak Estonian, but after a certain period of time their service card will expire if they fail to fulfil the language requirement condition. And that deadline has been offered for two years. No one has wished to cancel the language requirement within the meaning of the language law, nor do four of the authors of the amendment wish to withdraw it. How to say, in theory, we can turn the ideas that people have expressed one way or the other, but I do dare to confirm that the discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs sought to find a common part. And I think that's the most important thing about this. It has been said that the common part will simply not be found, and this time, too, the original position was maintained. If Parliament now adopts this law, we will see in practical life what a signal Parliament has given. I dare say that our goal, however, is that people in different parts of Estonia, including the city of Narva, can speak Estonian. Do we see in the next two years that the number of these persons will also increase among taxi drivers, we can check that in two years' time and we can certainly ask for the language inspectorate's opinion on this? I think we all share this general trend. It just seems to me that the perceptions of how we are achieving this are in this Chamber and were also different in the discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U56	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! I would like to comment so much that I believe that taxi drivers in Tallinn have been able to acquire the necessary language skills in 25 years to serve customers normally. I have not seen any taxi drivers in Tallinn who do not speak Estonian at the level he needs. But I'm gonna ask you more, it's always been about Narva. But is this problem only in Narva or Kohtla-Järve, Sillamäe and Jõhvi in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U58	Thank you for your question. It is probably also in other major cities of Ida-Viru County. At the same time, I dare say that you are really happy to be a resident of Tallinn if you have not come across a taxi driver who does not know the official language at an elementary level so that he can drive a customer from point A to point B. I also know the Members who have only recently become the subject of a completely different treatment. In a certain part of Tallinn, the Director General of the Language Inspectorate has also said this since 2005 and 2006, which is the case for ten years, but there are also problems in the city of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U59	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U60	The Counsellor of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu writes in this explanatory memorandum: 'Looking at the wording of the amendment, it is clear that the owner of the service card does not need to speak Estonian for a certain period of time. /---/ As the language requirement for level B1 language proficiency under the Language Act is laid down in a regulation, but a temporary derogation from the level B1 requirement is intended to be introduced by law (TSI), this would mean that until 2019 the holder of the service card does not have to speak Estonian at B1 level, because the law applies in the event of a conflict with the law. ' Therefore, I ask again. Even if a compromise had been reached and the requirement had been postponed for two years, and it is a considerable time to accept that taxi drivers across Estonia do not need to speak B1-level Estonian, did Mr Herkel be asked and did he say anything about why creating such a situation is okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U61	I was talking about the joint part. I dare say that the debate did not reveal the notion that the authors of the amendment want to achieve a situation where the requirement of the Estonian language does not have to be met. On the contrary, the purpose of the amendment was to offer those persons who are currently unable to comply with the language requirement the opportunity to comply with it in two years' time. So if you allow a little criticism, you might gently reverse the point of the amendment. Acquiring the Estonian language is not buying from a store a thing that you buy or may then give up or lose. If Estonian is acquired, this language will be acquired, if it is not known, it will not be known. The general approach in seeking a compromise on this amendment was that for people who currently do not speak Estonian, first and foremost Narva taxi drivers, the deadline would be that they would be able to meet all the requirements of the service provider's card. If they can't do it in two years, the service card will expire. Parliament would grant them a transitional period in order to meet the general requirement stemming from the language law and now from the law on public transport. I can't see the opposite and the opposite. In practical life, this is not evident in any way. As a result, this amendment was modified and formulated by the Commission in order to meet the objective of its presentation. I dare say that the aim was certainly not that the language requirements would not apply throughout the territory of Estonia, but that we would have more and more people who would be able to comply with the general requirement of the language law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U62	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U63	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! First of all, thank you for your thorough presentation and, in my opinion, for your exemplary, patient answers. However, the last questions by my colleague, Urve Palo, caused me a little confusion and, in order to better understand this, I ask you once more to explain what was the original aim of the draft initiated by my fellow Members, Mr Borodichi and Mr Palo, before it began to change in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U64	Thank you for your question. Indeed, it must be admitted that there is really nothing left of the draft submitted by the two members of the Riigikogu. Before the first reading, the Committee on Economic Affairs changed it 100%. Their proposal was to postpone the deadline, to postpone this requirement, but the Committee on Economic Affairs, when discussing the first reading, tabled an amendment that excluded this requirement from the law at all. So this question is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U65	Viktoria Ladynskaja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U66	Good waitress! I have a mathematical question for you. If a person earns about 500 euros a month and language courses cost 300 euros, for example, does it talk about the responsible politics of the Estonian state when a person is informed that he or she has to solve his or her own problem? In my opinion, this draft relates in particular to high unemployment in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U67	Thank you for your question. As I understand it, there have been a number of constructive initiatives to offer language courses to servicers, including taxi drivers, in Ida-Virumaa, which these people do not have to pay in full themselves, but are also supported by the state with its own money. But I understand your question. This topic also went through the discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and has also been through this hall, I mean the entry into force of the deadline of 1 April 2016. It was unexpected that the previous parliamentary assembly had written in law such a deadline. The Director General of the Language Inspectorate also admitted that this is a very short deadline and it is very difficult to meet it so quickly. In this respect, we were told that it was not just the previous composition of the Economic Commission and the full hall of the Parliament that this practical problem could arise in Estonia. So tonight, we're all gonna work this out together.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U68	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! Three years is a reasonable time and it is a declaration of goodwill that is included in the proposal of the Free Party. People have enough time to improve their language skills and acquire their language properly. The amendment proposed by the Free Party makes perfect sense. Why, however, was this proposal not taken into account in the Commission? I mean that it aims to contribute to wider language skills and employment and that it also takes into account local circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U70	Thank you for your question. This was not particularly taken into account in the light of the arguments that I have already mentioned. In short, the majority of the members of the Economic Commission, also based on the position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, considered it appropriate to exclude this requirement from the law as there is a general language requirement under the Language Act and the Order of the Government of the Republic adopted on the basis of the Language Act. It was not considered appropriate that this requirement was set out in the Public Transport Act, since such requirements were not laid down in the special laws for other service groups and employees.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U71	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I was surprised to hear you say that it just didn't come up with a deadline at some point. Recently, I was arguing with the Minister for the Environment, who told us that in the case of management plans, which were 12 years old and 1 May, it was suddenly discovered that you see, dammit, the deadline reached, and now it had to be postponed. The Free Party offered to postpone three years, but the government thought we'd put it right up until 2023. My question is: what do you think of Estonia as Minister of Justice, whether these deadlines are being arbitrarily imposed or not to think that the baby will come and then you will have to squirm?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U73	Thank you for your question. As I explained in the discussion of the Economic Commission, in setting this specific requirement, the previous composition of the parliament and the previous composition of the Economic Commission did not foresee that such problems might arise in some local governments of Estonia. As a result, two members of the Riigikogu initiated a draft amendment to the Public Transport Act, which we are discussing today. I do not dare to generalise, as you did in your question, that weird deadlines are being set in Estonia one way or the other. I think that there are also very good regulations in Estonia and, as a general rule, regulations with reasonable deadlines. There are also exceptions where Parliament must come back to its recently introduced regulation. We hope that there will be fewer and fewer such cases in the future, but of course nothing can be ruled out. I gave you an explanation from the previous Committee on Economic Affairs that there were very many interest groups involved, and, in particular, on the basis of the large number of stakeholders involved and opinions, this current regulation of the Public Transport Act has been drawn up. In particular, it was requested that self-regulation in this area be greater than State interference, which means that the Ministry of Economic Affairs tried as little as possible to introduce its nail polish into the introduction of these requirements. Rather, interest groups were heard and the interest groups themselves wrote down one, two, three, and four claims. In this composition, we will also come back to the Public Transport Act with draft 188, in which we will review at all the requirements for the provision of taxi services, which are probably too strict at the moment and perhaps too many. So this subject will not go away, but we will deal with it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U74	Thank you. Honourable questioners! Please do not confuse: there is a representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs before you, not the Minister of Justice. Just as Mart Nutt is not a member of the Free Party, so Ken-Marti Vaher is not the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice is Urmas Reinsalu. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U75	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I, unlike my colleague, have been in a situation where I cannot handle Estonian, but worse, I have not managed Russian either. Some time ago, a cabbie had driven me in a totally unintelligible language and asked me to punch in the GPS. So not only are we talking about the lack of Estonian and Russian language, but there will soon be a problem that the Russians will no longer be able to manage when driving a taxi in Estonia if the majority of the MPs now approve this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U76	Dear colleague, I have a request, start ten seconds earlier with the question, you are always going over time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U77	Can you not see that this problem can grow much wider than it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U78	Thank you for your question. I refer the opinion of the Director General of the Language Inspectorate, who has, I think, the best view of this area. In his opinion, several municipalities have, in particular, improved the level of language skills of the service providers. Regrettably, there are still cases to which you referred. As I said in answer to your groupmate Mr Silla's question, he has been lucky to have only come upon the servicemen who speak Estonian. His experience confirms that in most of Estonia's municipalities, including the capital of the Republic of Estonia, service providers generally understand the Estonian language. At the same time, there are obviously more problematic places and, of course, it is important what signals we send out of this Parliament Chamber, whether they contribute to solving the problem or whether they do not help people to acquire the official language in order to serve people in this language, and they understand that speaking the Estonian language naturally also has a good effect on job prospects. After all, the general language environment in the Republic of Estonia is in Estonian. I guess this debate revolves around what our angles are and how we actually achieve what 25 years has been tried to achieve with the Language Act and also with the implementing acts of the Government of the Republic to use the Estonian language in Estonia, to speak it with pleasure and pride, and to ensure that the first address in any part of Estonia is still in the national language.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U79	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There is, of course, a language problem, and today's dispute does not go over that. The question is whether the right place to resolve this is the Public Transport Act. The problem with this wording is also that the language certificate has to be presented by absolutely everyone, including those who speak Estonian as a native language. And this is clearly over-regulating, after all, we do not want all Estonian taxi drivers to go to the Estonian language exam. There should be a different solution here, and in that sense, it seems to me that it is wise to do so on the basis of a purely language law. We don't have to write more of those standards anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U81	Thank you for your opinion. I am absolutely certain that no one wants overregulation. That's unsubstantiated. Rather, it is requested that customers in the Republic of Estonia are served mainly in Estonian. It is a really bad story if you are sitting in a taxi in any Estonian city and you are simply not understood when you turn in Estonian, and you automatically switch to Russian, which, I think, most of the people in this hall are able to speak, and you have to explain that point B sounds quite different in Russian and not as you said in Estonian. This is a problem that is actually being resolved by this bill. Overregulation is certainly not recommended. If you ask me again, I have actually answered that question, why did the previous Parliament sign up for such a claim, then I repeat, the reason was clear and understandable at the time. It was requested that all relevant requirements be recorded in one place. The cab driver's gonna do the law, he's gonna get an extract, he's gonna read it through, okay, it's clear. And it was not simply said that significant problems, including unemployment and other concerns, could arise in several places in Estonia. But the imperative prerequisite for a service card is the same language requirement that you referred to in your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U82	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U83	Mr President, and the honourable Minister of Non-Justice. I want to philosophize on the subject of deadlines. The Nature Protection Act provides for a period of 12 years, then it becomes clear that it will not be complied with, three more years offered, no good, six more years added. We are currently in the process of meeting the language requirements for asylum seekers. I want to ask you, as the former Minister of Justice, how things are about setting these deadlines in the Republic of Estonia. How are they placed, and how are they extended with a light hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U84	Thank you for your question. I must grieve you, my fellow Member, but this issue was not addressed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I have tried to give as far-reaching answers as possible in this Chamber today, and I hope that colleagues will not mind that I have also expressed ideas that were not directly addressed in the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs. But I repeat what I said in reply to your previous question: as a rule, Parliament does not set deadlines lightly. When deadlines are set, this is a normal part of regulation. If a requirement is introduced, it is desirable that this requirement be implemented. As a Parliament, we are giving instructions, first and foremost, to the executive power that implements the law. Time limits generally apply to reasonable regulation, but there is always a question of ensuring that one or the other deadline is met, either there is a certain motivational lever or there is a sanctioning lever or some other motivation. Although you may be able to shed examples from your sleeve, for which you are not happy with setting deadlines, but I rather dare to assume that these are exceptions, not rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U85	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am of the opinion that the provision of transport services or taxi services does not differ much from any other provision of services. It has therefore also been asked whether it should be regulated in a separate Public Transport Act or whether it can use any general requirements here. Rather, it is the creation of a control mechanism. Should it not have been discussed whether the Language Inspectorate should have arranged its thigh without a complaint, as they have done by public authorities to check compliance with language requirements? There can be regulation, and we have 25 years in force, as we have discussed today, but if there is no control mechanism, these regulations will not work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U87	Thank you for your question. I understood from the Director-General's explanations that the capacity of the Language Inspectorate, as well as the resources allocated to them, has led them to prefer the approach of carrying out random checks, but the general response is still in case of a customer's complaint. After all, this is a private-law world, a customer and a customer service provider, and if one party is dissatisfied in this respect, the complaint of that party will also be dealt with on the basis of the form in which it has been received. If today we are talking about a city in particular, there will be no such complaints. However, the control mechanism can be as strong as the inspection in question works effectively and how much money has been allocated to it. Money, of course, means, above all, the existence of workers who arrive at one place or another and are able to carry out more or less random checks and also raids.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U88	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ken-Mart, my good colleague, I am not going to ask you this question as a representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs, but I want to hear your personal opinion. Is this subject not placed under the more general revisionist policy that we are now seeing? We are reviving the attitude towards occupation, the damage to occupation, we are relaxing the application for citizenship by rooster step, we are taking a lighter look at immigration policy. These are all the lines of defence that were self-evident in the country at the beginning of the 1990s, and this actually created a huge political divide. Now we have come to relaxing the language requirements. Is this also such a general revisionist political direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U90	Thank you, Mr Mart, for the question and for the statement on your question. Maybe two observations. Indeed, I am here as a representative of the Economic Commission and do not want to go too far in my opinions. But I would like to draw attention to this week's agenda. For example, tomorrow, contrary to the so-called revisionist approach you referred to, I think we will probably adopt a very clear and important law on immigration into Estonia. This is a draft amending the law on the granting of international protection to an alien, which will go to third reading tomorrow and perhaps also to adoption. I hope that all the groups in Parliament will support this. This is a draft that has been drawn up as a result of a very long and thorough work, in which there is no way of talking about a revisionist approach, i.e. some kind of relaxation of requirements. On the contrary, precise regulation is being introduced concerning both those foreigners who are in Estonia, those refugees who arrive at the Estonian border, as well as those foreigners who have applied for international protection in Estonia, so-called "resettlement." This is one example. The point is that, if the previous parliamentary formation had not included a language requirement in this form in the Public Transport Act, we would most likely not have this debate here today. However, in February 2015, the previous composition wrote this requirement into law as such, although I have already emphasised this in the light of the discussions of the Committee on Economic Affairs that has not been done in the case of other service groups. The signal to society has been given. In the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I, too, expressed my fear that if Parliament had given such a signal, we could find a different solution than simply rejecting this request a year later. However, as a result of the discussions, we have now reached this solution in plenary as a proposal from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and this will be voted on by this House. But yes, such fundamental conclusions as you said, I would not dare. Examples of us tightening our positions compared to 20 years ago are also.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U91	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your comprehensive and very explanatory answers. But I'm confused about one thing and I'd like your explanation. As I heard, the Office's Legal Department has given its opinion on the bill. It does so on many drafts and generally the committees take note of this assessment. Do you think the Legal Department has been wrong to assess this change? Do the Members of the Commission think, and also as your former Minister for Justice, that it is possible to interpret the law as it suits everyone, or does it still have a legal basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U93	Thank you for your question. What is the legal opinion on this explanatory statement? I have to admit, I don't know, I don't understand. Because it is primarily the primary legal opinion, which has been specifically emphasised by the Adviser to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. He was asked for an opinion and I think it is very reasonable that the committees ask for an opinion from the Legal and Analytical Department. Since this opinion had to be delivered in a very short period of time, the advisor has stressed that this is the primary legal opinion, it is his rapidly evolving approach to the matter. As I understand it, he was asked first and foremost whether, if we had decided to make such a compromise, there would have been problems. And he brought up certain problems. I repeat, this compromise proposal was that the requirement to present a B1 proof of the level of the Estonian language would have remained in the law, but we would have given a transitional period. If we had supported it in principle, we could have discussed more precise legal nuances to avoid any misinterpretation. However, since this was not the case and the Committee on Economic Affairs took the view that this requirement should be removed from the law, it did not go any further. I understand the axis of your question, as well as the focus. You want to highlight the inconsistency associated with the amendment. I totally understand that. But I will say once again that we tried to find a common part in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and that was very positive. From time to time, however, it is simply not found in the joint, and this time it was not found. Well, we'll try again next time. But I would stress that this legal opinion was, in my opinion, asked to do so, that if we had chosen another way, all possible inconsistencies would have been known in advance and we could have started to resolve them calmly. If this amendment had been misunderstood, that it somehow invalidated the requirement of the state language in the Republic of Estonia, then it should certainly have been clarified, unwritten more clearly and confirmed that it is an additional opportunity for those who do not currently speak Estonian, but wish to learn it in two years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U94	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This language requirement, which is currently inside the law, still has one aspect: it applies absolutely to everyone, including those who speak Estonian as a native language. Why do you think it's right to ask them for further testimony that they can speak their native language at B1 level?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U96	Thank you for your question. As far as I am concerned, taxi drivers who speak Estonian as their mother tongue have already been issued with a certificate that I am not very familiar with practice and no one is asking for a document to prove that they speak Estonian. This deadline is actually 1 April 2016 and was intended to be changed. But I think your point is sharp and correct. If it had been understood otherwise, if this claim had remained in place and such a formalistic view of the law had been in place that, if Erki Savisaar wanted to be a taxi driver, he would have to be asked for some document that he knew his mother tongue, then we should have reviewed this provision, which the previous Parliament, led by the Committee on Economic Affairs, introduced as a simple condition. Efforts should have been made to ease tensions, to stop misinterpreting and to stop obvious overregulation. For God's sake, the point wasn't to tell people who knew the national language to start carrying together documents. The idea was that those who did not know the official language would begin to acquire it and be able to serve customers anywhere in Estonia, so that they would have more motivation. However, I would like to conclude once again that the Committee on Economic Affairs was still about bringing together all the requirements in a single law. It didn't come up with any problems that we've all been solving here for over an hour now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U97	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U98	Thank you. Dear colleague, thank you very much for your answers. I see you have more questions than the initiators. But my question is this: what should be a brief message, consisting of about two sentences, from the Riigikogu to taxi drivers in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U99	I think the message of the Riigikogu is: please learn Estonian! And if you really are not financially insured and your income is low, please use all the opportunities that the Estonian state offers to you through various programmes and European projects, with the support of its budget, so that you learn Estonian and take this education seriously. As many of the questioners stated, the knowledge of Estonian is essential for anyone in the Republic of Estonia, especially because, of course, the job prospects are bigger and the person is not stuck in his or her environment. Today, a person may be able to manage in this environment only as a Russian-speaking taxi driver, but if he moves out of there, he will certainly not be able to. That's the message.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U100	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! To me, too, it seems rather unprecedented to ask the Legal and Analytical Department for an opinion on one of the amendments and then to include this opinion in the explanatory memorandum to the text of the second reading of the draft. Perhaps it would have made more sense to ask for an opinion and to analyse it then would not have been an initial analysis, as is currently the case here, of the wording that we together achieved at the Commission meeting with the Director-General of the Language Inspectorate. There was a revised date and part of the proposal was also withdrawn. Why did the Commission not want to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U102	I'm sure that's the right question. I will try to answer by fully understanding the motives of the officials of the Economic Commission. The Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu deal primarily with formal amendments. As a result, the Adviser to the Economic Commission asked for the initial first quick opinion on the formal amendment. At the same time, it makes sense for us in the future to rely more on the content, precisely in the sense that we are trying to find a common part, which is, as I said, an extremely positive practice in Parliament. The members of the Economic Commission also tried to find a common part in resolving this issue, not to solve the problem 'blatantly', with some sort of bogus vote. We wanted to discuss everything and try to find some points of contact and perhaps formulate new amendments. They can be presented by the Commission. This whole process I described to you. We had quite a few amendments on the table. They were not finally supported, they were not formally initiated and therefore are not included in the explanatory memorandum. But in the review of what happened in the Commission, I have introduced them. Well, in the future, I think we could really consider whether the inclusion of such a primary legal opinion in the explanatory memorandum is the most appropriate practice. We can discuss this in the Committee on Economic Affairs. However, at this point in time, I think that this creates more controversy in the House than there is any reason. So this is the place for further discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U103	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U104	Thank you. Everyone asks, I thought I'd ask. Honourable waitress! You explained very thoroughly why in 2014 such a requirement was enshrined in the law and why it was now abolished in search of a compromise. There are also questions about deadlines. But every bill and every case in life, as a rule, has a broader context and history, as well as this particular demand. Was it also analysed in the broader context in the Committee on Economic Affairs? We have the requirements for learning Estonian in the Republic of Estonia in schools, the relevant deadlines have been abolished, extended, discussed. All of this has created uncertainty about motivation. In 2014, we imposed a requirement in law, in 2016 we will cancel it. What does it look like in the wider context, and does this extremely inconsistent, uncertain behaviour of the Estonian state really encourage the learning of the Estonian language and motivate these people to learn?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U105	Thank you for your question. As I explained in my replies, yes, the opinion was expressed that giving such various signals by Parliament in a very short time could blur the message that we want to give to people, i.e. the recommendation to learn the Estonian language. This argument was central to our debate and was also expressed by the Director General of the Language Inspectorate. But there were other opinions, and I also made other points in terms of balance. On the basis of these other opinions, the requirements of the Language Act are valid. They have been in force since 1989 and no one is going to cancel them. Nor is it intended to repeal a decree of the Government of the Republic, which states a specific requirement imposed by law for people who provide taxi services. It was not considered proportionate that the Public Transport Act, as a special law, also regulates language mathematics. I hope that I have now given both views in sufficient detail and also said what the final opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs was. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U106	Thank you, Ken-Marti Vaher! Old truth from all parliaments: the shorter the draft, the longer the debate. Let's start the negotiations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! I guess today's debate is a compensation for the fact that the first reading went out of hand and too easily. Obviously, many Members did not notice what was actually going on. In the view of the Free Party, the adoption of this draft, as proposed by the Commission for second reading, is totally unacceptable. What we are doing here today also ridicules yesterday's mother tongue day. These issues should not be addressed in this way. The rapporteur, who was quite rightly the only ally of the authors of the amendment in the Committee on Economic Affairs, was very polite in saying that the debate was heated and substantive. I'm more categorical. I was absolutely amazed at the lack of awareness of the language issue in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I do not know whether this is some kind of technocratic instinct or whether it is the logic of this much-talking silos, which is about to end up in Parliament as well. From the point of view that we are dealing with taxis in Narva, let the Language Inspectorate deal with the compliance of taxi drivers with the requirements of Estonian. If the effective Language Inspectorate on this matter is or can be, it is no longer our business. It is a good thing, of course, that the Director General of the Language Inspectorate was invited to the meeting of the Economic Commission. As the author of the amendment, I also had the opportunity to listen to him and those views were competent and well-founded, but it must be said that he spoke to deaf ears. Now for the verbatim report: I think it is appropriate, in the table of amendments, for this proposal No 1, which we reworded there with the help of Ilmar Tomusk, to shed light on the fact that the compromise to which the rapporteur repeatedly referred is to delete the part of the wording of the amendment which speaks of non-compliance with the requirement laid down by way of exception, while leaving in place, by way of exception, the failure to submit a document proving language proficiency until a certain date. By that date, the authors of the amendment proposed 1.04.2019. Ilmar Tomusk explained that as far as he understands the temporal perspective of this motivation, this date could be in early 2018. This would allow everyone to obtain a certificate of language, and the attendant card would be able to move forward honestly and clearly, but on the other hand, it would not dismantle motivation. This could be done by pushing the deadline until 2019. Colleagues have a chance to follow me to the stand. But right now, I would like to comment on some of the arguments that sounded in the course of the questions. First of all, Urve Palo claims that, according to the amendment proposed by the four MPs, the language requirement and the right of the Language Inspectorate to control taxi drivers will be abolished at all for a certain time. I don't think it's going to suffer any criticism. No matter how you read this amendment, its content is, however, an exception, not a withdrawal of certain competences from the Language Inspectorate. In any case, the general requirement for national language proficiency remains valid. This concerns the postponement of the deadline for submitting a certificate of language proficiency. I will tell Deniss Borodich: yes, the Language Inspectorate remains competent, but you understand very well that he cannot control everything. I haven't been able to do it in 25 years. In essence, you want to reject an effective measure. Toomas Kivimägi, however, said that it is incomprehensible and offensive to demand the knowledge of the national language of Estonian native speakers. This does not stand for criticism of this as a certificate of education. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U108	Got it. Thank you. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U109	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I want to acknowledge Ken-Mart's professionalism. Despite some of his own differences in opinion on the draft on the table, he adequately reflected the Commission's debate and the majority's position. Of course, as an experienced politician, he did not miss the opportunity to talk a little more about his views, but it was all in full balance. Secondly, I would also like to congratulate Andres Herkel and his fellow fighters for your concern and wishing to ensure that more and more people speak Estonian in the Republic of Estonia. It is worthy of all praise and recognition. However, I cannot in any way agree with the statement made by the media that the language law of the Committee on Economic Affairs is not interested. That's a completely inappropriate statement. I repeat here to everyone that, with the text of the draft on the table today, we do not withdraw one centimeter from the requirements of the language law or from the regulation of the Government of the Republic which imposes a B1 level language proficiency requirement on taxi drivers. For me, the most important contradiction with the text of the current law is that indeed, it is an absolute, universal requirement that everyone who wants to be a taxi driver, including native Estonians, must prove that they can speak Estonian at B1 level in order to obtain a service card. You say, Andres, the requirement is selective, that officials don't have to demand that proof. It's not like that. If we read the text of the law currently in force, it clearly states that 'an applicant for an attendant card will submit the following data and documents to the provider of the service card' and one of these four documents is at least a B1 level document certifying the proficiency of the Estonian language. This is a universal, imperative requirement for all applicants. I admit that one of the reasons why we are talking about this in Parliament today is that this is an extremely unsuccessful wording. We admit that you admit, I admit and probably most admit that this requirement is not at all justified for people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue. I am honestly saying that I am not ashamed to repeat it, that it would be insulting for me if I wanted to be a taxi driver and then I would be required to have an Estonian certificate of proficiency. The problem is somewhere else. That's another thing. There have been two different proposals. I didn't want to talk about it, but since Andres asked for this ghost, I'm still talking. We have one specific amendment, which was discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs at its meeting, and it is worded as follows: 'By way of derogation, the holder of a service card may not comply with the requirements of subsection 57 (1) (3) of this Act. ' We take § 57 (1) (3) where Estonian proficiency is required at least B1 level. Let us be honest, the single point of this wording is that this requirement does not apply until 1 April 2019. And now if we ask who doesn't care about the language law, if we approach it formally, I'm sorry, Andres, but the shares are clearly to your detriment. I admit that in the Committee on Economic Affairs you also admitted that this is a failed wording, and you have corrected and corrected this proposal. So that's not the question. I have no doubt that you wanted to stand up for the Estonian language, but that wording was obviously unsuccessful. So I say once again that there is no antagonism here, neither do we fall back from the language law nor from the language requirements imposed by the Government of the Republic regulation. The Language Inspectorate is still entitled to check language proficiency. I'm asking for more time, if possible!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U110	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U111	The Language Inspectorate is still entitled to check the Estonian language skills of taxi drivers and if the person has received a prescription that he or she does not speak Estonian, the issuer of the service card has the right to remove the card. This regulation has not disappeared anywhere. And finally, it is often said in this hall that we are talking about real life. I do not deny that this bill is motivated by real life. We have no reason to overlook the problem of the application of this law, and why do we create such problems for ourselves? I do not want to underestimate the requirement to know the Estonian language by one centimeter, but above all, it is the topic of the taxi drivers of Narva and there is a language environment in the Russian language. And as has been pointed out repeatedly here, Ilmar Tomusk has said that no complaints have actually been received. I'd say the wolves have eaten and the sheep are healthy. The taxi drivers of Narva can continue to drive, but on the other hand we have not retreated not one centimeter until this bill is adopted from the current requirements of Estonian language proficiency. It seems a little that the subject has been overshadowed in the current approach. I think that language learning in schools is a hundred times more important when it comes to Estonian. This is a hundred times more important than the question of whether taxi drivers speak Estonian or not. I do not underestimate this problem, but let us look at what steps are more important so that the objectives set out in the language law and also in the Constitution can be met. And finally. This debate in this Chamber has been extremely heated, but I dare say that there is actually no contradiction between antagonism and antagonism. As Ken-Mart repeatedly pointed out, we did indeed seek a compromise in the Committee on Economic Affairs. No one opposed the aim of the amendment, just we did not find the appropriate wording, and that is why it went so far. In fact, there is no antagonism. No one has a secret or a backup plan. We had a problem on the table, and it needed a solution. One motive has been real life. But I repeat once again that for me the most disturbing wording was the universality and absolute requirement that people who speak Estonian should also present a document certifying the proficiency of the Estonian language when the law enters into force. The Public Transport Act does not provide for any possibility to do so. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U112	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U113	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, This dispute today speaks very little about content and more about who is the greatest defender of the Estonian language. It's actually pretty fun and very important. But I'll still come back to this bill and talk about the myths that sounded in this hall. I, who I am an education lawyer, likes specificity and precision. I will try to go through these myths in my speech. One myth that has sounded both today and more widely is that by amending the law, the requirement to know the language of the state will be abolished. No cancellations! The fact is that, as the language requirement for taxi drivers was in force in the same law on public transport until last year, it continues to apply in the language law. The requirement of national language proficiency shall not be revoked. The second myth that sounded here is that if this legislative amendment goes through, the Estonian language will no longer have to be studied. It must, because, as I said, the language law remains in force. There was also the argument that if we make this change, the motivation to learn Estonian will be lost. I don't think it's gonna go away. Ken-Marti Vaher also noted that hundreds of people have signed up for language courses and have already paid for courses. There's no reason to say this motivation is going away. This isn't right. It's also claimed that if you already paid for the courses, you'll never get the money back. Next moment: we have no supervision, the Language Inspectorate cannot control. Yes, it is. It's about wanting. Is this function prescribed by law? It is. Has the Language Inspectorate done this? No, it's not. This is, in my opinion, an example of administrative failure. When the current version, which really entered into force on 1 October last year, comes together, it is purely over-regulation in legal terms and, as a lawyer, I say to you that it does not provide anything. Nothing new has brought about this legal order, but it duplicates a provision that already exists. Now I want to talk about different solutions. When Urve Palo and I filed the bill, we were thinking of a different option to give the language certificate a year and a half, which is to postpone the regulation of the service card for a year and a half. But when we later spoke with both transport organisations and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, they were clearly opposed. Why? First, a lot of people have already received the service card by then. Secondly, there are other very important requirements for obtaining a service card, which certainly cannot be waived and which must necessarily apply during this year and a half. So since this language requirement does not really add anything to it and its withdrawal makes it easier and transparent, the idea came up in the Committee on Economic Affairs to come up with this revised text. What's the problem? Trouble was all over the place. In 25 years, many people have not learned the official language. I think it's very good that we can admit it here. But why is that? We also say that Estonia's success is weak in Russian schools. So what's the problem? Are schools a problem, teachers a problem, kids a problem? No, it's not! The problem is in the education system. And now we are going to confess honestly here and, of course, we all know that there are problems with Estonian language skills in Ida-Virumaa. But what is the solution? We can really point the finger at the sections of the law and say that you see that they have not mastered the official language. In fact, there are probably no people in this Chamber who would object to all people in Ida-Virumaa and Estonia speaking Estonian, and why only B1 level, C1 level. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U114	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U115	I don't think anyone's gonna mind. But now, if you argue whether there must be one paragraph in the law or another, the debate about obtaining a taxi license could, in my opinion, focus on what to do. True, it has been given more attention lately. WHAT has begun to organize courses that include over 5,000 people. In fact, he cannot satisfy the wishes of all those who want to learn Estonian. There's a will, but a resource isn't enough. We have analyzed our education system and complained about the problems that result from the transition to Estonian-language education in Russian schools at upper secondary school. Namely, children come from primary school, whose level of Estonian is very weak. What's the problem? The problem is the whole system. We've been talking in Narva about making a competence center that teaches the language. I think it's a good idea, it definitely has to be done. A language environment must be created in the state language and people must be helped to learn the Estonian language. That's the focus you have to pay attention to. Here's my prayer: let's focus on real problems, and if it's really the practical needs of life, we'll meet people! Laws must serve people first and foremost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U116	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, My dream now is that everyone who has once asked in this Chamber why these Russians and others have not learned Estonian in 25 years would be here to listen to what we are talking about, because I intend to answer this question. Five years ago, a publishing house in Tallinn, which is involved in publishing teaching literature, asked me to do an analysis of the glossaries and dictionaries that are available in libraries or shops. Clearly, I went to our library, the National Library Department is here on the first floor, and I asked them to take all Russian-Estonian dictionaries out of the National Library. We decided to start with Russian-Estonian dictionaries from 1989 and later. Those previously issued are unlikely to be available. They brought me 34 dictionaries, and I started looking at them. And now a question for those for whom Estonian is the native language. You know how many basic forms are on the verb. I see some people are looking at me with such an eye that they've forgotten about them are 11. Can you imagine learning Estonian in such a way that there is no way to look at one form or another from the dictionary to control yourself? When we're talking about lyrics, they have five main forms that must always be available. In all of this, 34 dictionaries were only one where these forms could be found; the rest were either limited to the ma- and da-infinitive or naming and, in good case, to the ingestible, in very good case, also to the ingestible. There was no more. How do you figure that out? We made a dictionary. It's here. This is not my self-advertising, I am just saying that I have not checked it for two years, maybe some have come up yet, but two years ago it was the only thing that has appeared throughout the Republic of Estonia, where there are over 20,000 words and all the necessary forms. Why has the country not dealt with this in 23 years? Does anyone who sits in the Ministry of Education and talks about teaching and learning Estonian not realise that such a thing is needed? There are no proper dictionaries on the Internet, the ones that are made on the knee and are full of mistakes. I took out a very solid dictionary. I was just browsing it, and suddenly I started to notice mistakes, even though there are very solid publishers and respected authors. Delivery is absolutely impossible! Not even looking for mistakes at all, I got 49 mistakes in a book. Is anyone in control of this process? There are no dictionaries, there are simply no dictionaries! Or we'll take school textbooks in the fall of last year, the same publishing house informed me that the Ministry of Education announced a competition to get school textbooks 'Estonian for Russian School' and asked me to review what was going on in this field. I also ordered "Russian in Estonian School" in the case of Class 1, 2, 3, 4. I received 43 books, textbooks, workbooks, and teacher's manuals. Five of them were Russian textbooks. I even showed the members of the special committee this whole pile. I started watching, and if I was a teacher, I would have taken my own course on how to teach using these books. I understand that everyone has a vision, but I am saying that a textbook that is exactly in line with the program and where the teacher knows very well how to teach is simply not. And we saw the perspective of finding teachers who know how to do a good textbook, and they could take part in this competition. But you know, ladies and gentlemen, last Thursday, my colleague, Aadu Must, told us about the fact that this competition at the Ministry of Education was won by a company that deals with the sale of fertilisers and has no philologists. And if you ask why they haven't learned Estonian in 25 years, how do you learn math if you don't have a textbook? How do you learn language if you don't have a normal dictionary if you don't have a normal textbook at school? The third thing I can talk about here can be analysed for hours on this subject, is more. Listen, sometimes it turns out from our speeches here that acquiring a national language is a personal problem. But the same people who claim it also confirm that language policy is a very important thing. I mean, it is a bilateral problem: it is important to a person and it is important to the country. However, explain to me why there are no normal Estonian language courses in a country with an ERR with even a Russian channel! Why not? If you ask me about English, I'll take out the old videotapes and the CDs. There are different courses for children, adults, tourists, entrepreneurs. It costs a lot of money compared to how much we talk about it. Why aren't there hours? Why must a person be rich enough to learn Estonian? Mr Ladynskaya told you that 300 euros is the cost of courses. You know, for some people, 300 euros is a very serious problem. But at the same time, he'd learn if national television would give him that chance. What's the reason this isn't happening? Who is responsible for this situation? So, ladies and gentlemen, why are the lessons of studying Estonian as they are? Let's round up the round table, let's invite people who get paid to raise the level of Estonian language! This same MISA has spent hundreds of millions of euros over more than ten years without having produced a result. We will bring together publishers and the people of the Ministry of Education and we will adopt a statement from the Riigikogu, which will provide guidelines so that the problem will be solved in the nearest five years, at most ten years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U118	Honourable Riigikogu! Before we go any further, I'll let you know I've got two proposals. From the Reform Party Group, it is proposed to extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu today until 14 p.m., the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted or until 14 p.m. With your permission, I will put the motion to the vote in this very wording. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Reform Party Group and also the Social Democratic Party Group to extend the working time of today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There are 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 3 against, 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Working hours have been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let's continue the negotiations. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U119	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that we are back in the process of amending the Public Transport Act before all the sections of this law can be applied shows just one thing: the draft, or at least some sections of it, have been made either in haste or superficially. At the same time, this confirms that we are working in a rapidly changing society and that we need to keep up with it. We have even two draft amendments to the provisions of the Public Transport Act at the same time. Laws must be in line with society's expectations and standards. The collaborative economy is a new area and needs to be regulated. What is important, however, is that if we do not regulate or regulate anything here, then we need to know how the changes affect market participants, both service providers and consumers. In the case of the draft currently under discussion, it is important that the service is of high quality and that the rights of the consumer are guaranteed. A person must receive a service in accordance with the requirements laid down and, if not provided in this way, be able to contact the relevant authorities, including the Language Inspectorate. Let it be made clear once again that, as many have already said, this draft does not change language requirements or any provisions of the language law. However, it is quite clear that we need to find additional resources for the Language Inspectorate to ensure that these requirements are actually met. This understanding has been going through here quite a number of times. Everyone knows that intimidation alone is not helping, so it is important to create opportunities for language learning. It is unrealistic that those earning a very low income go to language courses that cost more than their monthly income. The rumor is that, for example, taxi drivers in Narva have no interest, just not a crook. This is evidenced by the initiative of our good colleague, Viktoria Ladynskaja, in which nearly 200 Narva residents announced that they are very interested in language courses. I very much hope that MISA will prioritise this activity and that a solution will be found to finance language learning. I know that on this front, the Socialist Minister of Culture will also be active and I hope that these solutions will come soon. Given both the reality and the legal space, it is clear that we are currently dealing with only one small part of the changes. We will soon discuss the abolition of the self-employed taxi driver's driver's driver's card and the licence requirement, as they are essentially covered by the requirements of the service provider's card. The requirement for vocational training is also removed from the law; this issue is resolved by self-regulation: companies providing transport services set their own internal rules, as in the case of driving-sharing services. Probably in the next few years, however, this law will be before us again, and then we will be discussing the need for taximeters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U120	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U121	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U122	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U123	The Public Transport Act, which came into force last October, laid down, among other things, the requirement for national language proficiency. This has been acknowledged by the Taxi Drivers' Association and the Municipalities' Associations, and it has also sounded from this very hall that it was a surprise when the language requirement was included in the Public Transport Act. This requirement, which is elementary in itself, comes from the language law and also from the decree of the Government of the Republic. In the last session of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Head of the Language Inspectorate, Mr Tomusk, also admitted that when he found this requirement in the Public Transport Act, it was a surprise to him. In his view, this was in some respects a precedent because the requirements of one law are not normally repeated in other laws. However, I would like to thank my fellow Members from different political parties very much for finding that, after we had discovered that one of the problematic requirements would enter into force on 1 April, i.e. after the entry into force of the law in six months' time, we found that there was no point in playing ostrich. This would lead to major problems, especially in Narva, whose population speaks 97% Russian as its native language. And we know that a lot of jobs have been lost in this region lately. We also know that taxi service is very common in Narva and employs a lot of people, even hundreds of people. And so we didn't decide to keep playing ostrich. We decided to do something about it. We started looking for solutions together. One option would have been to postpone compliance with the language requirement, as the representatives of the Free Party and one of the IRL Members proposed in their amendment. My colleague Borodichi and I considered it, but we found that it had its drawbacks. If simply postpone the requirement of language proficiency for one or two or three years, it brings with it a lot of ambiguity and a possible interpretation that taxi drivers do not have to speak Estonian during this period. This has not been the case either with the authors of the amendment, with the other people in this Chamber, or with our Committee on Economic Affairs. I would also like to thank the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi, who has really tried from the outset to seek a compromise that would make sense and take us forward. By the way, in case of postponement, the problem would also arise that it would set a precedent. That is what Mr Tomusk acknowledged. Once again, I will explain how this would be a precedent. The point is that the language law applies in the Republic of Estonia. In Estonia, the official language and, for many, the mother tongue are Estonian. According to the Language Act, the Government of the Republic has laid down by regulation the requirement for holders of 11 offices to be able to speak B1-level Estonian. These are, for example, soldiers in active service and junior officers; employees of public authorities whose duties are to support the organisation of administration, such as data entry, postal secretary and similar staff; rescue staff; teaching staff; service and sales staff whose duties include the direct and regular servicing of consumers; board members and employees of statutory non-profit organisations; managers of small enterprises providing catering, sales or accommodation services whose duties include the servicing of consumers, personal care workers and ancillary staff of social welfare institutions. The tenth has been mentioned as drivers of public transport, including taxi drivers. The list also includes skilled and craftsmen whose duties include serving consumers and, lastly, equipment operators and machinery managers, whose duties include serving consumers. In other words, if we had now, as if we had lifted one profession out of here and written in a separate law this provision that taxi drivers must speak Estonian at this level, it would have been a precedent. We should have started to wonder if we were going to make such an elementary request in some laws for everyone on the list. That would not make sense in itself. Consequently, as a result of very long discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we have indeed come to the conclusion that it is reasonable to simply maintain the current language law, which of course we did not intend to change. It's been in place since 1989. We are not confusing with any delays or distinctions. If taxi drivers apply for their identity card, they do not need to present a certificate of proficiency in the national language, as this requirement comes from the law anyway. And then the problem that Toomas Kivimägi said will fall away: it is as if people who speak Estonian should start applying for evidence of language skills, which would be absurd. Finally, I very much liked the speech of several colleagues, including the last speech by Mr Onion, from the representative of the IRL. I support everything I've heard. Indeed, we should be dealing not so much with the form but with the content. When Mr Borodich said he was a lawyer, I am an economic man and I say that it is easier to learn the language when the bread is on the table. Perhaps the state should not encourage job losses by its actions and omissions, but we should look at how we can make an effort to ensure that when a young person finishes upper secondary school or comprehensive school in the Republic of Estonia, he or she can speak Estonian. This is a matter of our education system, as well as that there are more opportunities to learn Estonian for adults who have graduated before the 1990s. When I was the minister of the population, we found ways to offer free language courses. This was the first time in the history of the Republic of Estonia. The interest was enormous, the language courses were filled very quickly. The fear that if we withdraw this requirement from the Public Transport Act, people will no longer have an interest in learning the official language and will be taken away from language courses has not justified. I would argue this, based on my experience in politics of nine years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U124	Thank you, Urve Palo! Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U125	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Language Act has been in force in Estonia since 1989. Today we are in 2016, but during this period the Estonian state has never been able to establish a language law in a certain part of Estonia, especially in Narva. The question is, why has there been no money or political will? As we have heard from the previous speaker, there is a great interest in learning the Estonian language. Participation in language courses would be great, but as we heard from Mr Stalnukhin, no teaching materials, no money for paying for courses for too many people. What we are talking about now reminds me of an article by a Russian journalist who settled in Estonia, a former state official, Andrei Kuzichkin, where he tries to give an objective portrait of such an Estonian observer. And on that portrait, there's a child drawing out. He says Estonians are like big kids. They can't see things in the long run, they can't see things in the big picture. They're always doing some details, they're always doing all the time, when they've stumbled and fallen down, they're trying to get rid of the dirt of their pants, but they're not going to see things done, so they don't trip, they're not going to fall, they're not going to smear their pants. In fact, I think Kuzichkin is right, and the debate that we have here today is precisely this kind of clean-up of pants. This is, in fact, a kind of removal from omissions for more than 25 years. So what do we say now, and what do we do now? On the one hand, it is said that these jobs must not be allowed to melt down there, which is a security risk. My question to the people in this Chamber, many of whom have been members of the Riigikogu for ten and more years: this has been a security risk all along, why hasn't the security risk been spread, mitigated, eliminated, job creation, channelling investments there, making public investments, language learning, etc.? And now, somehow, some sort of temporary solution is being absorbed again, which really doesn't solve anything that doesn't create more jobs that doesn't eliminate languagelessness. After all, B1 is the lowest language proficiency category. So it cannot be said that these people are not capable of acquiring it. Narva doesn't live with 99% idiots, they're able to acquire a B1 level if they push when they help them, if they give them an incentive and if they give them aids. So I share the view of the Free Party that this draft, in this form, despite good intentions, will not solve the problem. Hell's Way is paved with good intentions. The draft is incomplete, is disabled and, in this form, does not meet the objectives that it should meet, that is to say, contribute to the long-term resolution of this problem. We're gonna take a little bit of time, and we're gonna cheat on ourselves, and with this little extension, nothing's gonna change, absolutely nothing. And if not this composition of the Riigikogu, the next Riigikogu will discuss the same subject again, unless Russia, for its part, has taken advantage of the security risk and tried to make adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U126	Thank you. Does Andres Ammas have a speech on the subject? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U127	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to make one clarification about the statement in today's discussion that people who speak Estonian could be offended in some way. I disagree. § 26 of the Language Act on the differences in proof of Estonian language proficiency says: "A person who has completed a basic education, a secondary education or a higher education in Estonian does not need to pass the Estonian language proficiency examination. " So it is enough for taxi drivers who have completed a school in Estonian to present a school certificate or diploma. And if this document is lost, it will be easy to obtain proof of graduation from the educational institution. It should not be insulting for anyone to present a certificate of their education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U128	Thank you. No more calls, negotiations are over. Two amendments have also been tabled to amend the draft and we will examine them. The first amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Mart Nutt and Külliki Kübarsepp, and the position of the leading committee is to disregard it. According to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not voted on. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft 159, but the Group of the Estonian Free Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft 159. We're going to vote on this. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft proposal of the Estonian Free Party to interrupt the second reading of 159. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 57 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 159 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U129	We will proceed to today's third item on the agenda: Second reading of the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like the Chairman of the Economic Commission, Toomas Kivimägi, to be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U130	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At first, I intended to introduce and recall the content of this draft, but given the heated debate and duration of the previous item, I will not do so here. However, if a member of the Riigikogu wishes to do so, I am prepared to speak with a few words about its content. The draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act 128 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 November last year and the first reading took place on 20 January of this year. No proposals were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was 3 February at 5 p.m. Consequently, this was a well-prepared draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 8 March. As a result of this debate, the Committee on Economic Affairs is proposing two amendments. Both are driven by the proposals made by the initiator of this draft, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Amendment 1 is to amend point 33 of § 1 of the draft text. This is only a technical remark: there is a reference to the European Union directive, which is very long and also contains many numbers. The Economic Commission decided to take full account of this amendment by consensus. The second proposal is even more technical. The proposal is to delete § 2, which reads as follows: 'Sections 1 (2) and 32 of this Act shall enter into force on 18 January 2016. " There are two reasons for this change. Firstly, since the deadline of 18 January 2016 has already expired, it is not justified that this date is in the draft law. The second amendment is due to the fact that, since § 2 is removed from the draft and only one paragraph remains, the numbering of the paragraphs is waived in accordance with the technical requirements. At its meeting on 8 March the Economic Commission took the following procedural decisions: Firstly, to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 15 March 2016, today. Secondly, to propose the termination of the second reading, the decision was consensual. Third, send the draft to third reading when the second reading is completed by 22 March 2016. In addition, it was decided to request the Executive Board of the Riigikogu to reduce the deadline for making documents available in accordance with § 62 of the Riigikogu Law on the second reading and to set a new deadline on Monday 14 March 2016 at 17:00. All the decisions were by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U131	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. As amendments to the draft have been tabled, we will examine them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment is also proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 128. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U132	We are going to the last item on the agenda today, this is the first reading of the 167th draft law amending the Act on the Election of Local Government Council, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U133	Mr President! I must also thank the Socialist and Reform Party Group for this opportunity, who will help us to fill the lunch break in this way. However, this is a very important draft law amending the electoral law that defends the principle, aimed at moving to the "open list" principle in the distribution of compensation mandates. In the latter case, the candidate with the highest proportion of personal votes in the constituency will be the first to acquire the mandate. The size of the electoral district and the amount of the basic quota to be used for the allocation of mandates should be taken into account. The concept of an open list has been well established in Estonia as a euphemism. I think most people understand what it means. Perhaps this is not the most accurate of its content, so it is perhaps appropriate to say that we want to change, first and foremost, the procedure for obtaining compensation mandates in such a way that the candidate who has received relatively more votes receives the first mandate. This essentially eliminates the meaning of the electoral list formed and submitted by the party itself, whether it is national or suburban. I only wanted to say 'national list' in the first step, but as attentive listeners understand, this is a draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act, and there is currently only one municipality in Estonia, according to the law, where there is a citywide list and elections are held in eight circles. This municipality is the municipality of Tallinn. As regards the transition to the so-called open list of elections to the Riigikogu, which is a proper and necessary step, I recall that the draft law was the first that the Free Party Group initiated in this Riigikogu. Its first reading was quite unanimous on 28 May. I concluded from this that this principle is about to become a law, too, but somehow the Commission has left it in the drawer. I have been to the Commission to defend this draft and, in doing so, I have come to understand why it is not wanted out of the Commission's desk drawer. However, in principle, such an amendment would need to be made to both the Local Government Election Act and the Riigikogu Election Act. If the draft that has already been tabled, protected here and passed the first reading, were to be treated with goodwill in the committee, it would be possible to add the part of the law concerning local elections to this text as an amendment. Unfortunately, this is not a benevolent approach. We have the local elections in October 2017, so it is high time to make such a change. The process should be initiated right now, so everything could be done in a polite form, as there is a general agreement that electoral laws will be amended at least one year before the elections take place. And there is another aspect that should be addressed here. This concerns the distinction between the selection of the municipal elections and the elections of the Riigikogu with the list necessary to obtain a citywide compensation mandate. If there is a minimum requirement for the number of personal votes in elections to the Riigikogu, calculated on the basis of the quota of a particular district, this is not the case in local elections and it is necessary to establish the principle of receiving compensatory mandates based on the weight of the votes. Therefore, the purpose of the draft is to take better account of the will of the electorate and to ensure that a candidate with greater relative support can enter the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U134	Thank you. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We imagine that local elections will take place and one person in one of the Tallinn electoral districts will be on one particular list! And he gets two terms of office. What happens next? There's no one in his district. Where do those voices go when there's no common list? Who?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U136	Honourable questioner! If there's only one candidate on the whole list in one part of town, it's not a list anymore. Then this person will probably be qualified as an individual candidate. But I understand that the hypothetical content of the question may be to draw attention to the fact that in other circles these candidates are. If one candidate in one district takes a prominent part in the list of all the votes, they will be distributed among the other candidates in other districts in exactly the way the draft states: when allocating compensation mandates, the person with the highest proportion of personal votes in the district will receive the highest priority of the mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U137	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U138	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! According to § 8 (2) of the Local Government Council Election Act, there should be several districts in municipalities with more than 50000 souls. My question to you is: what is the Tartu phenomenon? The big city, but one district, the so-called one blanket has been pulled onto everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U139	Honourable questioner! This issue is very justified and, in fact, the initiators of the draft will briefly address this issue in the explanatory memorandum. I didn't start reading it here. But the Tartu phenomenon is, in short, that there is one electoral district in Tartu, where all the mandates of the Tartu Council are shared, which is 49 in total. After me on behalf of the Free Party Group, Mr Adams, who has repeatedly pointed out that a proportional election will lose its meaning if such a large number of mandates are allocated in the same constituency, will probably come to the floor. Optimum can be at most, I can't say, maybe 15 to 17's. It is already very much shared and councils of this size will be formed in a single round of local elections. This is now the position of the initiator of the draft, it does not come directly from the content of this draft, but it would certainly be appropriate to form several circles in Tartu and possibly to use the same list principle as in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U140	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U141	Thank you. Good colleague! How many times have we taken part in the election, but there has never been a problem. Is it right that your proposal is more focused on Tallinn than on other local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U142	This is a law amending the Local Government Council Election Act, but it is true, as I said earlier, that such a citywide list and the distribution of mandates in several constituencies are only used in Tallinn. At the same time, I do not agree with the rhetoric of the question, perhaps it was not in this question either, but it is often in analogous matters that, if something is changed only in Tallinn, it is as if it should not be changed. In fact, it is quite a problem that the city-wide list in Tallinn operates in the order of the party's authority, as the party's side of the board of the region or any other collection has confirmed it, and the end result is not at all dependent on the size of the vote of one candidate or another. The consequence is that in a city as big as Tallinn, 13 personal votes were received, if I am not mistaken, during the previous local elections in 2013 by the smallest member of the Tallinn Council. It's unprecedented and strange.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U143	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I'm going on with the subject of Tartu. There are three points in your bill. But why don't you put a fourth point here to change § 8 (2) of the Local Government Act. It says that if there are more than 50,000 souls in the city, there may be several electoral circles. But you could put the word'must' in it, if you replace'may' with'must', you'd be clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U145	Honourable questioner! This may be a pretty good idea, but the initiators of the bill were based on us taking one step at a time. We have sad experiences that representatives of the Reform Party and the Centre Party have not usually supported the principle of an open list. If you ensure the support of the Centre Party for such a draft, this amendment can certainly be tabled for the second reading, and we would consider it very seriously. I think that's a reasonable suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U146	Thank you. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Kalle Laaneti.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday, 8 March, and Mr Herkel was the same rapporteur and promoter. He explained to us that the draft was intended to move over to the open list principle, in which case the candidate with the highest personal vote in the district would acquire a mandate. The size of the constituency and the amount of the basic quota to be used for the allocation of mandates should be taken into account. He also noted that the Riigikogu proceedings had launched a similar draft on Riigikogu elections in April last year. This is Bill No 3, the first reading of which was completed on 28 May 2015. This draft wishes to provide for a transition to open lists. The principle is that in the allocation of compensation mandates, the candidate who receives the highest percentage of votes in the electoral district will receive a mandate. The representative of the initiator of the draft act explained that they submitted a separate similar draft for the elections of the local government council because the analogous draft on the elections of the Riigikogu passed the first reading, but the Commission has not discussed it further or brought it to the Riigikogu for the second reading. Local elections will come much earlier than the new Riigikogu elections. The representative of the initiator of the draft act pointed out that, in accordance with the provision of § 8 (1) of the Local Government Election Act, the formation of circles is mandatory only in Tallinn, where there are several circles and also a general list. The electoral system is therefore similar to the Riigikogu electoral system. At the same time, the problem of the transition to the open list principle is even more acute in Tallinn than in the case of the national list in the Riigikogu elections. The Riigikogu elections have set a minimum of votes to be elected, but there is no minimum requirement in the Local Government Council Election Act. In theory, it is also possible to obtain a list mandate in Tallinn for a candidate who gets zero votes, in practice this minimum has been between 10 and 20 votes. The merger and reorganisation of local governments may lead to situations where it is also more appropriate to form several electoral districts and to use compensation mandates. The practicality of electing 49 members of the Tartu City Council must also be analysed. The members of the Commission heard the representative of the initiator and asked him questions and expressed their views on the draft. There was, among other things, an interest in whether the representative of the initiator of the draft had analysed what would have changed if the regulation proposed in the draft had been in place at the time of the election of the previous local government councils. The representative of the initiator of the bill replied that they have not now carried out such an analysis, but they have analysed it in the case of bill No 3 concerning the elections to the Riigikogu. As a result, it became apparent that most of the compensation mandates would have gone into exchange. It can be assumed that the differences in Tallinn due to the lack of minimum voting requirements would have been slightly higher. The proportion between parties would not have changed the draft, but there were recipients of compensation mandates on the list of parties. The Adviser to the Office of the Riigikogu Elections Department stated that § 8 of the Local Government Council Election Act provides that eight electoral districts must be formed in a local government unit with more than 300000 inhabitants, and a local government unit with more than 50000 inhabitants may also form several electoral districts. Further exceptions concern that, if a new local government unit is formed as a result of the merger, the merging municipalities may form an electoral district and may also form an electoral district. Indeed, there have been only districts in Tallinn in the municipal elections and one time the same system has been used for the merger between Vändra and Kaisma rural municipality. The Commission found the concept of 'open list' to be false and highly disorienting. The open list means something else in Western Europe. There have been various systems in place in these countries for which it has been possible to cross someone off the list or to add more. These electoral lists, which are currently used in Estonia, are generally referred to as open lists because Estonia does not vote in favour of the list as a whole, but in favour of individual candidates, and therefore candidates are expected to line up in the list. What the draft deals with has nothing to do with the lists, it is a change in the method of allocating compensation mandates. The Commission expressed the view that the principle of the credibility of the elections should be respected and, as far as possible, kept the current electoral system in operation and tried not to change it. It was also considered that electoral laws should be amended if there is consensus. As far as compensation mandates are concerned, it was found that there are people who do a lot of unnoticed black work, and such persons are also needed in the Riigikogu. Often there is no other way to get these people into the Riigikogu than by means of a national list and compensation mandate. The representative of the initiator of the draft act considered that the allocation of compensation mandates based on the proportion of votes would increase the credibility of the elections and that a minimum requirement of at least the same as that applicable to the election of the Riigikogu should be introduced before the next municipal elections. The committee expressed the opinion that one municipality should not change the law, but it was also found that the elections of the Tallinn City Council cannot be satisfied. The Commission noted that, in the perspective, the electoral thresholds that have been in force for local elections from a very long time ago could be revised. The role of administrative bodies is a separate issue. Administrative bodies have become meeting entities with no meaning in substance. The committee expressed the opinion that the main problem in local government council elections is not the number of voters, but the number of mandates and there should not be any electoral district in the Estonian electoral system where more than 15 mandates are allocated. We also asked the Government of the Republic for an opinion on this draft. As decided at the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 11 February, the Secretary of State announced that the Government of the Republic gave up its opinion on the draft Act 167 amending the Law on the Election of the Local Government Council, initiated by the Free Party of the Riigikogu on 12 January 2016. What was decided in the Commission? The proposal was to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 15 March 2016 (i.e. consensual); to propose to reject the draft (by 6, 1 against, 1 abstention) and to appoint Mr Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (consensus decision) as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U148	Thank you very much, good waitress. There's a question for you too. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U149	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Respectable waitress! Since you yourself, in your report, also dealt in parallel with the Local Government Council Election Act and the Riigikogu Election Act, I dare ask you such a question. Why haven't you brought draft number 3 to this hall for second reading as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the tenth month? What is the reason? Could this be due to the specific opposition of a party belonging to a government coalition or to the particular opposition of a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U150	Thank you for your question. Why did I bring it up? Because, as a Commission rapporteur, I am obliged to report what happened in the Commission, and that is exactly what happened. However, as regards bill No 3, as we know, members of the Constitutional Committee know, but certainly not all members of the Riigikogu, there is an election working group at the Constitutional Committee, which discusses all proposals relating to the change of elections. And, as you know, this week's agenda also voted out a chick, which has already come from this working group, this was a draft for amending the Riigikogu Election Act. So these issues are being dealt with in a row, and I believe that one day your thoughts, which are on Bill 3, will also be on the table of this working group. The group is chaired by Martin Kukk from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This bill is not put in a desk drawer with the idea of keeping it there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U151	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U152	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Did you have a debate in the committee about the fact that since the draft law on administrative reform was handed over yesterday, there is certainly a need to think about amending the law on the election of the local government council so that some functions and other functions would still work? Will there be a return to this issue, or what is the starting point for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U153	Within the framework of this draft, we did not discuss any other issues relating to administrative reform other than the same electoral law. These issues will certainly come to the table together with the law on administrative reform, and then we will discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U154	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I'm pretty confused, but I still want to understand. The first reading of one draft has been completed in one way; on the second, you propose to reject it. What, then, is the position of the coalition on the current system of allocation of compensation mandates and on the proposal that the Free Party has already presented here for several times? I would also like to point out that this system is still particularly absurd in Tallinn. In principle, it is possible to get to Tallinn City Council with a zero vote. Does the Reform Party support such a system?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U156	I am the rapporteur for the Commission in this panel, so unfortunately I cannot tell you the position of the Reform Party Group at the moment. As regards the opinion you referred to in your question, however, that elections in Tallinn are not exactly what they might be, this was accepted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U157	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U158	The Free Party Group has asked me to speak a bit more broadly on this issue, because there is also a broader background. However, I will start with the questions raised by the two members of the Riigikogu. Mr Stalnukhin raised a question which, in my opinion, is a very important issue. The electoral system we currently have was created as a political compromise between two different directions: proportional list elections on the one hand and personal elections on the other. Personal selection is included in the laws as an option for individual candidates. But if we were to take a particular election situation and imagine that some individual candidates would get a certain number of votes, and we imagine that if the same person had not applied as an individual candidate but on a list with only one name and received the same number of votes, then the result would probably have been different in the allocation of mandates. Such a contradiction has been enshrined in our laws from the beginning. The second question was about the Tartu case. It's got a long story. I am not entirely sure in all the figures that I am saying now, but if my memory does not deceive me, in 1992 and 1993 it was legally written that the electoral district should not be larger than 13-mandates in the municipal elections. Then followed for ten years, when several cities took the initiative to lift and lift the border, until it was abolished at one point. This led to the emergence of one electoral district of Tartu with 49 mandates. Compared to our other municipalities and based on the principles of democracy, this is not a good solution. I think the former solution, where there were four electoral circles in Tartu, was better. Today, Tartu is definitely left behind by the influence of its district societies from Tallinn and from various other developments as well. But now to the main issue. Against the background of yesterday's draft law on administrative reform, things that are not done in time will remain like chronic diseases, but that does not mean that they should not have to come back. When Estonia's independence was restored on the basis of the last administrative division during Soviet times and village councils were simply renamed municipalities, it was already foreseen that this could not be very sustainable. If, in 1992 or 1993, the parishes had been joined, we would not be faced with the task we have in the coming months. The whole problem would probably be without being. But the other side of the same coin was that treating Soviet Republican cities as separate municipalities gave the result that the entire structure of Estonian municipalities was out of place. On the one hand, Tallinn has a population of 400000 inhabitants and then others come along the hanger trail, starting with a little less than 100000 inhabitants from Tartu and ending with small municipalities. If this mistake can be corrected by small rural municipalities, then it should also be done in Tallinn, because Tallinn is unreasonablely large. Not to mention that the structure of Tallinn's municipality has not succeeded, and the electoral order in force in the capital is also one that has for decades raised questions as to why it is exactly what it is. However, the main problem with administrative reform is that it is difficult to oblige municipalities with very different populations and also with very different economic capacities to do the same work in the interests of their population. Some can't, others don't have the strength, and others can't have the strength and the possibilities. In the long term, municipalities should either be more or less equalised in their capacity, or a different path must be chosen: those who are more capable will be given a bigger package of tasks than those who are less capable. Perhaps we will now take together the subject of administrative reform, which we will probably dive into in the coming months, and there will be little more we can do about it, as well as the transformation of Tallinn's municipality? Either a number of independent municipalities should be established in Tallinn or a model of a Western European capital based on a multi-level structure, i.e. city districts with their mayors and then maybe the whole city with or without the mayor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U159	Thank you! I would now like to ask Kalev Eagle, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats agree with the initiators that the use of the principle of open lists in municipal elections better takes into account the will of voters and reduces the influence of the backrooms of political parties. This fact was also the reason why the principle of open lists was included in the so-called democratic package of social democrats dealt with in the previous Riigikogu and why it was included in our election programme. Today, however, the reality is that several electoral circles and thus the general list are only in Tallinn. The outcome of the planned administrative-territorial changes is still unknown. The amendment of the Local Government Council Election Act should be based on the evolving reality. In summary: the Tallinn-centred nature of the draft, the unpredictable management of the near future and the purely mathematical fact that candidates in circles with fewer mandates are privileged to share compensation mandates are the reasons why the Social Democrats support today the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to reject the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-15_U161	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft at first reading 167. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 38 members of the Riigikogu, against 14 and 1 abstention. Draft 167 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The fourth item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 13.42 p.m.
