ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Due to the suspension of the mandate of member of the Riigikogu Rein Ratas and the resignation of member of the Riigikogu Arvo Sarapuu, Igor Kravchenko, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, will be located from 6 December 2016 until 4 March next year. So he can start work, let's hear his oath. Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U3	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 10th working week of the 4th plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U4	Dear Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Tarmo Tamm from the Centre Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U5	Thank you, the new Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! I will pass on the draft amendment to the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption. The content of the draft is as follows: amend point 1 of the decision of the Riigikogu of 7 May 2015 on the establishment of the Special Committee against Corruption and appoint Mr Marko Šorin as a member of the Special Committee against Corruption of the Riigikogu in place of Jaanus Kariladi and Mr Kersti Sarapuu as an alternate member. It shall take effect upon signature.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U6	Thank you very much. I see there's no more calls. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the Management Board and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides this further procedure on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! There are currently 91 members of the Riigikogu and no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U7	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have three items on the agenda. The first of these is the second reading of Bill 319 of the Amendment to the Act on Air Protection in the Environment Committee. I would like to ask Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee of the Chair, for the presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce you to the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection with license plate 319. I would remind you that the Committee on the Environment initiated the draft law on 7 November. The first reading of the draft act took place on 15 November 2016 and the deadline for submitting amendments was 17 November 2016. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Committee on the Environment discussed the preparation of the draft second reading at one meeting on 21 November 2016 and decided to make one amendment. The content of the proposal is to delete subsection 1 (3) of the draft, which deals with the recovery of subsidies granted under trading schemes designed to mitigate climate change. The Commission unanimously took the following decisions: to propose that the second reading of draft 319 be included in the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today and that the second reading be closed. I would ask the honourable members of the Riigikogu to support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U9	Any questions for the waitress? Aivar Chef, IRL, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U10	Good manager! Good waitress! Would you say with a few sentences that will improve in Estonia if we adopt this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U11	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, it's a pleasure to repeat it again. I hope you remember that when you first read it, but I'll say it again. The objective and urgency of the draft act is due to the need to complement the procedures for the use of auction proceeds and to include a provision that the recovery decision under the trading schemes set up to mitigate climate change is an enforceable document. This will give the country the opportunity to recover almost a million euros from those who have misused the support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U12	Jürgen Ligi, Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U13	Thank you. Did the Commission also dwell on the title of this draft? As far as I know, the atmosphere is one layer of air around the earth, but there is still talk of a separate atmosphere or air. Do you think this title is stylistically perfect?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U14	Thank you. The Commission did not dwell on a separate title. But I think, on the contrary, in style, it fits very well in today's legislative process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U15	Peter Ernits, Central Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U16	Good manager and waitress! As I understand it, this hastened draft has been launched by the Commission on 7 November and another point has now been withdrawn. What is the reason for this urgency that the draft had to be launched on 7 November and today is the second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U17	Thank you. I am pleased to note that you have put exactly the same question at first reading. I repeat my answer: the draft law resolves the problem that has arisen in practice where a recovery decision in the event of a breach of the requirements for the use of aid granted under the green investment scheme cannot be enforced because it is not regulated by the law that the recovery decision is enforceable within the meaning of the law on enforcement proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U18	Urve Tiidus, Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You answered the question of Aivar Koka very well, but I did not understand whether this specific draft is necessary to recover a million euros and who is required to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U20	Thank you. Since this is a second reading, I will repeat exactly what I said to my good colleague, Peeter Ernitsa. It is true that there is a problem in the law. The problem is, in fact, simple: it was not possible to recover the subsidies from the misuse of subsidies granted under the green investment scheme. We're going to change the law so that we can have it. To date, indeed, requirements have been put in place that specifically concern electric cars, and these requirements are close to EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U21	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U22	Good manager! Good waitress! You've counted the vast long, debilitating response from the pulpit. I, who know a little bit of the environment, ask you to speak the clear Estonian language behind it. I understand some villains have done something somewhere. Please speak in clear Estonian so that Aunt Maal's country can understand!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U23	Thank you. Then I'll try to make it even more clear that in addition to Aunt Maal, Peter Ernits would understand. This is a practical problem where it is not possible to recover subsidies in the event of improper use of grants granted under the green investment scheme. With this law, we will change the situation and in the future the aid can be recovered in the event of misuse. At present, these claims are close to EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U24	Arto Aas, Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U25	Good waitress! I was not a member of the Riigikogu at first reading, so I will ask again. Who are we going to ask for this million euros back from - the buyers of electric cars, the municipalities, or who are the people who have misused something? Have they been misusing electric cars? Secondly, what do we do with this million euros, is there a plan? I have some ideas. Is this a separate subject, is it part of this law, or will we discuss it later? Does this money have to go into environmental protection, or do we use it in road construction, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U26	Thank you. The recovery decisions are from spring 2014 until autumn 2016 and the requirements amount to 10% of the total amount of funds for electric cars. As regards further steps, i.e. what to do with this money, I believe that all the proposals are welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U27	Thank you. Arto Aas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U28	Thank you. Could you please explain how this planned or paid-out support has been misused for electric cars? Didn't they buy electric cars, or did they buy diesel cars instead? What's gone wrong? After all, the point of the law is very correct when it is misused, so you have to ask for the money back. But I still don't understand how this misuse has happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U29	Thank you. I have a very long explanatory statement on how it has been misused. If I may, I will answer this question later in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U30	Taavi Kõivas, Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is motivated by your answer to the question of Arto Asa. I still didn't get it. You mentioned that 10% of the support for electric cars needs to be recovered. Does this mean that all those who have received support must be asked for 10% back, or every 10th 100%, or was it just a random example? I'd like to find out a little bit about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U32	Thank you. It wasn't a random example. I mean, in proportion to 10% of subsidies. This certainly does not mean that every applicant should be asked to recover 10%, but, as the explanatory memorandum states, in almost 10% of cases, this has been a misuse. Up to now, it has not been possible to recover the aid. So that's 10% of the total.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U33	Valdo Randpere, Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U34	Thank you. Dear waitress, Since a large part of the purchases of electric cars must have been made through KredEx, does KredEx have any negative economic results in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U35	Thank you. This is not foreseen in the draft under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U36	Jürgen Ligi, Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U37	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Commission! My last question wasn't asked for spite. However, the answer was somewhat reluctant. I am actually quite serious about whether it would be possible to call the keyword of this bill simply an atmosphere, not an atmosphere. There's nothing in the atmosphere but air. In my opinion, good Estonian is also important in law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U38	Thank you. I sincerely apologise to my colleague when it seemed that the answer was, how you said it, somewhat reluctant. Such a perfectly happy Tuesday morning response was that the Committee on the Environment did not discuss this issue at its reading. That's exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U39	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No more questions for you. I'm sorry! At the last minute, one more came. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U40	When I read this explanatory statement, I get worries of the kind that came up with Jürgen Ligil's title. The relics of acronyms, such as those in the text of this explanatory memorandum, are still very, very rarely seen. I would simply point out that if you initiate drafts in the Commission, please tell your advisers who write them, so that it is correct to write out the names of the law at least once in length. Then I'd know what this MKM, the OWN, and all those other things mean. After all, we have talked a lot about this in the Riigikogu, that the laws must be understood not only by the members of the Riigikogu, but also by the public. But since you didn't answer my last question exactly, I'll ask you again. Since it has been said here that money is going to meet budgetary objectives, I want to understand who they want to ask and how much money they want to ask for back. It still affects a lot of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U41	Thank you. Once again, these are cases that have already been initiated in many places. It's a data set that's constantly evolving. I can send you an existing picture in writing, but it's not part of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U42	Now, indeed, there are no more questions. Thanks to the waitress! Dear Riigikogu, would you like to open negotiations? I see you don't. Let us go to the amendments, or rather to the proposal. One amendment to the draft has been tabled, from the lead committee and fully taken into account. We have examined the amendment and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 319. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U43	We will proceed to today's second item, which is the first reading of the State Budget Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the Draft Act amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu 304. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Mr Andres Ammas, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U44	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! In one sentence, the purpose of the draft is to give the Riigikogu the opportunity to make a substantial contribution to the adoption of the state's budget strategy. At the moment, the state budget strategy is prepared by the Ministry of Finance. In doing so, it will, of course, base itself on a wide range of previous documents, legislative changes, objectives of different performance areas, various financial forecasts, including macroeconomic forecasts, and the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, and will then present a strategy for the approval of the Government of the Republic. If it is not the year of the elections, it will take place in April, in the year of the elections it will shift by one month later, to May. The Ministry of Finance informs the Riigikogu about this document, but the Riigikogu does not have the right to confirm this document. In the opinion of the initiators of the draft act, this regime, which is currently in force, may be convenient and practical in a certain sense from the standpoint of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic, but is certainly not worthy of the parliamentary republic. If we have decided that the Riigikogu has a decisive role in these matters, then we should implement it in practice. This is not a matter of the current composition or of some kind of Free Party fiction. In fact, this problem has been discussed for years. As early as 2008, the Ministry of Finance of that time drew up a financial concept and formulated it as one of the objectives that, after a while, the budget strategy of the state could be approved by the Riigikogu. I can see that a good colleague has had a bad face and he is frowning about whether such a document has really been accepted. Yes, it is. But eight years has probably not been long enough to put this idea into practice. The same trend has also been addressed by the National Audit Office, which has also offered that a change according to which the budget strategy of the state is approved by the Riigikogu could be considered. The issue of the country's budgetary strategy was dealt with very thoroughly in the report of the Special Committee on State Budget Control prepared this spring, the rapporteur of which was Kristjan Kõljalg and the co-rapporteur was Mikhail Stalnukhin. Remember, this was a document with a long and complex name, 'The possible changes of the Fiscal Policy paradigm in the Estonian parliamentary system'. Up to 83% of the members of the Riigikogu interviewed by the authors of the report thought that the role of the Riigikogu in shaping the strategic view could be enhanced. I will correct the small fingernail bill in the explanatory memorandum, which states that 83 members of the Riigikogu thought so. It is accurate to say that 83% of the interviewees. In any case, this number is large and quite clearly expresses the willingness of the members of the Riigikogu to contribute more in the budgetary procedure. It is no secret that the members of the Riigikogu do not speak very actively when dealing with the annual state budget in this hall. Let's be honest. The Government of the Republic doesn't really expect us to have that kind of talk. For decades there has been a tradition that dear members of the Riigikogu should rather be satisfied with the possibility of proposing regional investments on a limited scale. This is the part where the members of the Riigikogu are involved in shaping the budget. According to the Government of the Republic, he has the right to decide which fundamental decisions are to be taken with the budget. And I am not talking about the current or previous government here, this contradiction between executive power and legislative power has actually existed a long time ago. According to the Ministry of Finance, one of the reasons why the state's budget strategy may not have been presented to the Riigikogu has been such a limited time frame that this strategy is very fast. However, in the opinion of the initiators of the draft act, time limits can be exceeded. Obviously, with good will, it is possible to bring the whole process of drawing up a strategy a little forward. We propose that the Government of the Republic submit a budget strategy for approval to the Riigikogu no later than eight months before the beginning of the next financial year, i.e. in April of each year and in the year of elections no later than seven months before the beginning of the next financial year, i.e. in May. A debate in the Riigikogu would certainly lead to a more comprehensive and diverse view of the preparation of the budget strategy. Perhaps, I dare say, would even point to a few weaknesses in the budget strategy. If I recall the document adopted by the Government of the Republic this spring, because of differences between the government's parties, for example, the issues of financing health care were not resolved in this strategy, because the solution was not agreed. Yet, this problem cannot be postponed forever. The content of the draft is to amend § 24 and § 25 of the State Budget Act, to create a regulation that obliges the government to send the budget strategy to the Riigikogu for approval within certain timeframes. In this context, it is also necessary to amend the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to supplement it with a new section and to regulate the processing of the budget strategy in the Riigikogu. If we really decide that the role of the Riigikogu in the completion of the budget strategy could increase, as the members of the Riigikogu expressed their will in the spring report, this draft would help to put this will into practice. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U45	Thank you, dear waitress. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U46	Good manager! Good waitress! I remember the missing Kristjan Kõljala report, which he presented here, a wonderful thing. But tell me, does this thing become a living animal these days? It's been eight years. Do you think it's gonna be a living animal or it's gonna be eight years again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U47	First of all, the esteemed former colleague Kristjan Kõljalg is hopefully in good health and health, and will also find good application to his excellent abilities outside the Riigikogu. The speaker here is very grateful to him for the success of this report. The best way to continue the work started by Kristjan here in the Riigikogu is, for example, to adopt the draft currently pending and to implement all the other fine proposals that are included in this report. Let's be honest, isn't that the kind of document trouble is that everything that gets a letter is right, everyone nods, everyone agrees, but then it's forgotten somewhere in the drawer. If I understood the questioner's motive correctly, the questioner would also like the principles set out in this report to be implemented. I think that the path chosen by the Free Party Group, i.e. to bring one concrete proposal from this report for approval and decision in this Chamber, is a sensible way. Similarly, other groups should bring the rest of the good ideas to this Chamber for discussion and hopefully also for approval. I am an optimist, I think the content of the spring report was accepted by the absolute majority of the Riigikogu. In the case of this report, the coalition and opposition border was not detectable in the responses; this was not observed here. If this is the common will of this hall, then the text must also be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U48	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned that the Ministry of Finance brought a time factor to justify its negative attitude or opposition. At the same time, you yourself have also estimated that neither getting behind the time factor nor getting behind it can be taken very seriously. Did the Ministry of Finance give any other reasons why they don't think it's a good idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U50	The last time the Commission held its meeting, there were no such reasons. Referring once again to this report, I am happy to say that the report reads literally as follows: 'The representatives of the Ministry of Finance agreed that the Riigikogu has had little involvement in the discussions on the state's budget strategy. The need for a parliamentary debate on the country's budgetary strategy was fully supported, but it is difficult to imagine in time. ' So it's just a time factor. I do not want to agree in any way that we should, to the end, be guided here by the time or the need to report quickly to Europe on our budgetary strategy. In my opinion, the will of this hall should still be supreme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U51	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U52	Good manager! Good waitress! In time, it's hard to imagine obstacles. Now explain it to me. It's not like this job is gonna kill us, especially towards spring. Personally, I would like to participate in this debate, and I think many others too. Whose trouble is it, are the Treasury officials in a hurry or are we in a hurry, or do we have some other obstacle to get more rest here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U53	Thank you. I cannot, of course, respond here on behalf of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. I agree with the questioner that the Riigikogu will find and must find sufficient time and opportunity to deal with the state's budget strategy when today's draft becomes a law. Perhaps I will translate the talk of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance too freely, but I understand that there is a rush for Europe, which is eagerly looking forward to the budgetary strategy of the Republic of Estonia every spring. Could they suffer a little bit, or, if we cannot wait for Europe, could we perhaps start a little earlier ourselves in order to report on our progress by the promised deadline? I think that would be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U54	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U55	Honourable waitress! The budget and budget strategy are needed primarily by Estonia; blaming Europe is completely unprofessional here. But here's my question. If the Riigikogu starts discussing the budget strategy and by the end of September the strategy is unconfirmed in the Riigikogu, what will happen then? Can the government then present the budget, or what will happen then?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U56	I don't think the government can miss the budget. But the risk formulated by the questioner must then be fixed in the law so that, in such an embarrassing case, the Republic of Estonia can either change the new parliament, of course, and the new government in connection with it, or we can come up with some regulation that would set a certain timeframe for the Riigikogu and would place it responsibly in compliance with its obligation. However, I would like to clarify the honourable questioner's claim on the lack of professionalism. This complaint should, in this case, be passed on to some of the officials of the Ministry of Finance, who have given the Commission the reasons for rushing precisely European requirements. This is perhaps one example of a series that, if we cannot do anything in the Republic of Estonia, we sometimes blame someone else. And since an official from far away in Brussels cannot argue against these accusations, it is easy to send an arrow there. That is how I, at least in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, realised when listening to ministerial officials: the main obstacle is that we may not be able to get ready here in time, so we cannot present data to Europe at the time allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U57	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U58	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is a little more general, it concerns strategies and development plans in a broader sense. There are over a hundred strategies and development plans in Estonia. Most of them are now confirmed by the Government of the Republic, individual members also by the Riigikogu, and in some cases the procedure is such that the Riigikogu discusses, but the government still confirms. What is the position of the initiators of this particular draft law as to how these strategies should be dealt with in the first place? Perhaps all strategic documents and development plans should be within the competence of the Riigikogu, not just the budgetary strategy of the state? Or do you think there should be a different approach here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U59	The country's budgetary strategy is undoubtedly the most important strategy. I understand that, simply speaking, a country's budgetary strategy would perhaps be the most important point in bringing together the objectives formulated in all these strategies and development plans and the country's real financial opportunities. So perhaps not all development plans and strategies should be approved by the Riigikogu, although a number of them, as I recall, require the approval of the Riigikogu according to the current laws. But precisely because the country's budgetary strategy is a strategy of'strategies', it could come to this Chamber for approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U60	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U61	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have a purely technical question. Since confirmation means voting in this Chamber, have you wondered whether a simple majority, a majority of composition or any other number of votes is needed? How do you see this process in a strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U62	It is correct to say that, when discussing the draft, we did not pay special attention to this issue in the group. Improvising, I say that if the adoption of the budget requires a simple majority of votes, I see no reason why the adoption of the budget strategy should require another majority.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U63	Thank you very much for the waitress. No more questions for you. I would like to ask Mr Kalvi Tõvi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for the presentation of the committee's speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U64	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. November 21, 2008. As a representative of the initiators, Andres Ammas introduced the draft, as he did today in this Chamber. The views of the Government of the Republic were presented and answered by Karl-Erik Tender, Deputy Head of the State Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance. My colleague, Andres Ammas, spoke exactly about the content of the draft from this panel and did most of my work, talking about the debate held in the Commission and the answers given to questions. A few words from the opinion of the Government of the Republic that came from the closet of the Minister of Finance. I'm going to refer you to a paragraph of this. The Government of the Republic has undertaken to update the State Budget Act. They have collected proposals for this purpose from participants in the preparation of the budget, including the Riigikogu, and have examined the recommendations made in the report of the Riigikogu referred to in this same explanatory memorandum. On the basis of the proposals as a whole, the Government of the Republic wishes to initiate the renewal of the State Budget Act. Ultimately, the Government of the Republic decided not to support this draft. But the Commission didn't think so. The Commission proposed that the draft be put on the agenda for today, 6 December, to conclude the first reading and set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 20 December, at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U65	Thank you very much. You have at least one question. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! With this draft, we want to take one small step to ensure that the role of the Riigikogu in the budgetary process is greater, more visible and clearer. However, these steps will certainly need to be taken, and the Kristjan Kõljala report referred to by the previous rapporteur also mentioned this. After the publication of this report and the debate, has the Committee on Monetary Affairs also paid special attention to what these other steps could be, so that we do not remain here merely distributing roof money by members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U67	Thank you. The Committee on Finance is taking this first step with you, the good Free Party Group. In the course of the committee's debates, however, we will certainly think and discuss these options, how the Committee on Monetary Affairs or the General Assembly of the Riigikogu could contribute to these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U68	Please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U69	Please tell me if you personally support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U70	The Committee on Finance adopted a decision to close the first reading by consensus. I'm a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U71	Urmas Kruuse, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U72	I'll keep asking from here. The new coalition government has said that certain accounts may not be up to date and it would make sense to put morning thoughts into practice at night. From your point of view, is it even possible for the current government to adopt and work on such long-term strategies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U73	It is certainly possible and, in my opinion, even mandatory. When it comes to whether I am in favour of adopting this law, we can make amendments, which Mr Ammas said very nicely in the Commission, that they are prepared for all kinds of changes and debate on how to make this law better. So I am sure that the Social Democrats, if you ask as I do, will be involved in this process, and I hope that the Commission will do a good job and a good decision here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U74	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U75	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise in advance for not reading Kristjan Kõljala's report and for not participating in this meeting on 22 November. I am a newcomer in the Riigikogu and may not yet understand everything. But some things I understand. I understand that the level of this debate here doesn't satisfy me in any way. I listened attentively to both the waitress and the co-rapporteur and, frankly, it was rather awful. It is at this level that the responsibility of the Riigikogu must be increased and that it is not appropriate in a parliamentary state if the Riigikogu does not approve the budgetary strategy. And that's it. Where is this degree of deepening that would justify dealing with matters such as the state budget strategy and even greater responsibility for the state budget? My long experience in finance is that it is actually necessary to fight for the government to be responsible for the document, which is its most important code of conduct for the year, which is a very clearly executive document, which is the state budget. As far as the country's budgetary strategy is concerned, it is only a preparation for drawing up the state budget. I very much hoped that it would be the coalition who would speak and defend the government's ability to take responsibility for its work, for its tasks, so that executive power and parliamentary power would be separated, but I did not hear any constructive speeches. Unfortunately, even Eiki Nestor gave a comment that was very clearly out of the question. The state budget is, of course, needed by the Estonian state, but just as the state budget and the state budget strategy are needed, the Estonian state also needs the European Union. Estonia also needs a euro zone. And the deadlines that are currently dictated to us by the arrangements agreed in Europe have been agreed in our interests, with us and for our great economic environment to stand together. For there to be no more Greece, there would be no more excess of living and debt crises. To have a more rational, analytical economic policy, not a debate like that in the Riigikogu, which should justify even more intervention in the state budget. I have not read the report, and I was not at the hearing where it was discussed, but I hope that there was actually more talk there. I hope that it was actually said that the Riigikogu could confirm the budgetary strategy of the state, but that would then be a confirmation. Not that we're going to improvise here in the spring with our superficialness and continue the exact same thing in the fall. It is possible that this is how the state budget is done once a year in a four-year perspective and indeed strategically. What the Riigikogu has done to the state budget so far and what it wants to do again, as if it wants to do with the state's budget strategy, is not a strategy; it is a very superficial approach and pecking on very individual topics, pecking on the government. There is no justification for this, and it lacks the strategic view that is being put in place here at the moment. The deadlines that we are talking about here are extremely practical. The Ministry of Finance was certainly only opening his mind for a moment when he said it was unthinkable to include more serious Riigikogu debates in this process. That's unthinkable. The level at which these Excel tables, which Parliament is very good at contempt, are actually put together means tens of meetings of hundreds of people over a very long period of time, very concentrated meetings, discussions on very many details, very many laws that affect the budget. This is not the level worth bringing to this hall. So please do not take a superficial view of the budget strategy. Please do not bring here any drafts that only exacerbate problems, not a strategic view. That is not the opinion of the group, but I certainly do not support this draft in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U76	Thank you. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U77	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Dear Jürgen Ligi, I hope that your entry into the work of the Riigikogu will be smoother in the future and you will also gain a different perspective. This second point of view is sad precisely because Parliament's role in the state budget process has been marginalised and has been marginalised consistently. We are all to blame for this, but it is certainly also the governments of the Republic who have allowed the authorities to grow over their heads, which is why it has done so. I recall Kristjan Kõljala's report and these discussions... Mr. Ligi isn't listening anyway, as I understand it...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U78	Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U79	Mr President, we have such a custom that the hall will be called to order if it is not possible to proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U81	I recall one important point in this report, which has been worded in such a way that Parliament must be involved in the budgetary process already in the spring, because the preparation of the government is undoubtedly long-term. How the state's budgetary strategy is either presented or discussed in different committees ♪ there appear to be further approaches and opportunities. I understand it's going to be fast. But the worst thing is that Parliament is shut down from this whole process, and the government comes here with a budget like that, so take it or leave it, put on your rubber stamp and share the roof money. Such a custom is no good, and we want to resist it. I would like to recall some of the conclusions of this report. It is a pity that the members of the government have not read the report. We read here in Parliament and, frankly, applauded the member of the Reform Party who put together this report by the Commission. One of the major problems that came out of the debate in Parliament is that we have been separated from the debate on tax changes. Yeah, technically, it's actually quite right in some way, but tax changes have to be known in advance for six months, and so on. But in fact, these things cannot be separated, and this has sometimes made the budget debate poorer here. This has also been made poorer by the customs that came here during the previous government, when massive tax changes with cluster bill were immediately pushed through. In Parliament, they were linked to the issue of government trust. I understand that night sittings were feared, but what basically meant was that some reasonable debate could not be developed or even voted through the amendments. Perhaps such a roller was introduced out of fear that there might be too many proposals, too many breaks, etc. This is a chronic problem. This also sends us to the state budget in the third reading, for example, where it was concluded at one point that twice we could survive a situation where all the amendments could be put to the vote in the Chamber, it was considered cumbersome. It was therefore decided that only those proposals supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs would be voted on. Once again, we have created monsters for ourselves in this policy that actually hinder a normal process. Next question. We are all dealing with regional investments here, with small sums, so-called 'roof money'. These proposals will be taken outside the procedure of the Riigikogu at the last moment of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, before the third reading. That doesn't make sense! And we can't deal with big things. In this sense, I call on all my colleagues to leave this bill in the process. Bringing the state's budget strategy to the Riigikogu is a minimum step that we can take now. I hope that the government will also make changes to the State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U82	Thank you very much. Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the Central Party Group and the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U83	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't planning a speech, but some of the sentences I said here called the bleachers. First of all, I think that if there is someone who is not satisfied with the parliamentary debate in this Chamber, there are two possibilities: whether this Parliament is not suitable or if it is not suitable for someone who is not satisfied with this debate. Then, of course, the question arises as to what makes more sense, either to replace Parliament or to make it clear to someone that he does not fit in here. I don't think that's gonna happen because nobody listens to what's going on here, but then they say the debate doesn't match his level. It was a great honour for me to be a co-author of this report in my time, and I agree with all the conclusions made in the report. However, these are the technical questions that arise. The development of the country will go as it goes. At a certain point, we are facing some huge bunch of problems, and then there's going to be some change in politics, there's going to be a coalition exchange, there's going to be new ideas. I understand that this strategy, which this hall should endorse, should be a strategy for the whole country, it should be a strategy for all of us in this Chamber. But how do we achieve this? That's why, Andres, I asked how we'd vote afterwards. Nevertheless, for one very simple reason, I would like this strategy that needs the support of the hall to be one of our vital issues here. I have been watching for years how the associations of municipalities, the union of cities and everyone else make their proposals on how they participate in the discussions. Once they're about income tax, they're about repair. They make suggestions, they come here, they sit in our conference room, they sit in other rooms and they take part in the debate. Finally, it turns out that no one is going to take into account any of their proposals. That's all that matters to me. I understand that the current coalition is taking a few steps: we are restoring this share of income tax to its previous size, we are organising free public transport. God forbid these goals, which are in the coalition treaty, will be fulfilled. But I would like to see this mechanism, how the opinion of these small places and towns can be taken into account. This may be one of the points of this bill, as I see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U84	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 304. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the proposed amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 20 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U85	We come to today's last, third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill 291 of Amendment to the Nature Conservation Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please present a representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, a member of the Riigikogu, Külmiki Kübarsep!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U86	Thank you, good vice-chairman, and strength in the new profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U87	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U88	Good Riigikogu! The Free Party Group submitted to the Riigikogu an amendment to the Nature Conservation Act with the number 291, which aims to eliminate the situation where nature conservation restrictions are as if the landowner's personal responsibility and concern. This must be a shared responsibility of our entire society, as our constitution says. During several trips to the Estonian Free Party's envoys' groups, as well as the discussion that took place here on Toompea in the late winter of this year with people from Tudulinna, Surju, Nõva and Otepää rural municipalities, it has come out that the idea of nature conservation restrictions is difficult to understand. It's like the state is deliberately bullying landowners. Huge restrictions hinder the normal economic activity of landowners, even on a regular basis, in order to maintain the value of the forest for future generations. Landowners do not object to nature conservation restrictions if they are accompanied by reasonable compensation or are able to continue economic activities on their land in a sustainable way. This is an extremely emotional issue; it is the result of things that have not been done for a long time. The lack of communication between the official and the landowner is also aggravating. Let's understand that a countryman is immediate, he doesn't want to be shitting or fooling around. Thank God there are still people like that. Destroying rural areas by bureaucratic means is extremely foolish. Let us remember that life on earth has always preserved our people, even during foreign powers and wars. The topic of conservation restrictions is much wider than the solution we offer in the draft. The draft concerns those landowners whose land is subject to a significant conservation restriction and who wish to avail themselves of the right to seek effective compensation from the State. However, the reduction or cancellation of land tax on the property concerned is not an effective compensation. Under the law, the land owner is able to apply for the transfer of the land to the State. Once, it was possible to exchange lands by mutual agreement as a compensatory measure, but this measure was a political gain. It takes an average of eight to nine years for land to be transferred, until any feedback is received from the state on the declaration of transfer. As of 1 November of this year, there are 188 applications for the transfer of immovable property. Since January this year, when we started drafting the draft, the list has been reduced by 36 entries. The names stand for decisions since 2006, at the beginning of the year, there were still statements from 2003. The figures show that something is totally wrong in our country. Whether there is no interest in standing up for its citizens or whether the scandal of an exchange of lands driven by political greed is so frightening that it is preferable to close your eyes and allow ordinary people in the world to suffer further. One consequence of this failure is that people move away from the country and from Estonia at all. How can we cope with the growing problem of depopulation if we cannot even deal with such small matters? That's how they give in to the growing disappointment. Political extremism has become more popular throughout the Western cultural space. Let us understand that this is the result of a policy of convenience, the unwillingness to deal with your people, to provide clear and honest answers. Dear representatives of the people, do you not sense that the responsibility for such inaction really lies with us, the legislator? The letter sent by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise on 7 September also states this directly. We can't be an unsolicited rubber stamp here. I quote the Chancellor of Justice: 'The legislator has been inaction against the Constitution because he has failed to lay down regulation with sufficient guarantees for the procedure for the acquisition of immovable property within a reasonable period of time. ' The Chancellor of Justice says that the Constitution requires compensation to be paid to the landowner for significant restrictions within a reasonable period of time, which obviously cannot last for 8 to 9 years. What is the solution proposed by the Free Party? We wish to supplement the Nature Conservation Act with the following principles: New nature conservation restrictions can only be imposed if there are up to 50 objects on the list of disposals of immovable property. The figure 50 comes from a free party's desire to find a balance. In the spring interview, the Land Office pointed out that they were able to deal with the transfer of up to 80 properties per year. If the government were able to allocate a stable amount each year for these operations, it would be possible to reach 50 properties without even greater administrative burden. It also provides an opportunity, within a year, which is a reasonable period of time, to satisfy the landowner's request and complete the transaction. This certainly does not preclude the processing of more properties. I would point out that we are not just looking for a solution within the framework of this draft. If you have noticed, we have also proposed amendments to this effect to the 2017 state budget. On the third reading, we once again sent out a proposal to mobilise EUR 10 million in order to resolve these 188 requests in the coming year. Why are we talking about so much money? For two reasons. Firstly, the State must not pay the private owner below the market price of the land. Unfortunately, an unreasonablely long waiting period has reduced the market price of the land. When we were building the eastern border, we also saw that trading on the price created a negative attitude towards the country. You can't let that happen. Secondly, the market price varies depending on the region. The resolution of at least 160 properties in one year requires additional resources to be allocated to the Land Board. Our common goal must be to start the year 2018, Estonia 100 years without embarrassing debts to its people. The solution is not that the Land Administration is ordered to generate an income of x million in order to dispose of land. There is a clear need for a more effective solution from the government and the legislator, either through the 2017 state budget or through the Nature Protection Act. We will also see in the draft a solution for exceptions such as the place where the species of protection category I is found. To this end, we foresee that the Minister for the Environment will set up a committee with representatives of the state and representatives of the rural region at the table. We offer a solution to the problem if it appears that landowners do not even know that their land is subject to conservation restrictions. It is therefore important that the restriction on the protected area only applies once the landowner has received the notification and all entries are recorded in the relevant register. The aim of the Free Party is to look to the future so that the screaming contradiction that exists today no longer arises. We want to create a system that gives clarity and protection to both the landowner and the public authorities who are in contact with this area. Nature conservation restrictions must be proportionate, i.e. appropriate, necessary and moderate in relation to the objective to be achieved. The purpose of the draft is to ensure that the significant constraints imposed on the private owner in the event of a significant public interest are effectively compensated. I will also give an example of neighboring countries. In the long history of Finnish nature conservation, it has been based on the principle that nature conservation in private land can only be done with the consent of the private owner or that the state buys out the land that needs protection from the private owner. Finland has also been looking for measures to motivate private owners to join the protected area on their own. To this end, a voluntary nature conservation programme has been set up by METSO. In Latvia, the analysis of how the restriction affects the future costs and/or revenues of the private owner is very important in setting conservation restrictions. Unfortunately, our system does not recognise such arguments and voluntary promotion measures. Good Riigikogu! We would like the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act 291 to pass the first reading. Our draft is the basis for discussions on how, in the long term, there will be no major debts between landowners and the state. We want restrictions and respect for the Constitution to be our common and mutual responsibility. The basic principles of the Socialist, IRL and Central Party Government Union, signed on 21 November, also set out the general objective of speeding up the buying-out of land under nature conservation from landowners. The draft of the Free Party, which we have been preparing for a long time, is essentially handing over to the new coalition. I hope you accept it with a positive mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U89	Thank you very much. There are also questions for the honourable waitress. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U90	Thank you, Mr. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Congratulations! Good waitress! I listened very carefully to your presentation and was absolutely interesting. I agree that this problem needs to be resolved, and the comment made by the Chancellor of Justice has unfortunately been relevant. It's sad that's what's happening right now. The question, of course, is whether this is the only way or not. However, it bothers me a little when, in such a very meaningful and serious matter, a number of sentencees come in. Perhaps you will explain more broadly how the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act interacts with the political extremism that you mentioned in the Western cultural space. How do political tendencies in the Western cultural space relate to the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U91	Thank you. Very generally, the problem is that especially those who feel unfair on the part of the state, even in small matters, and I feel that our society is standing up for a city man rather than a rural man, are much more prone to accepting lies that one or the other political forces exploit to popularise themselves. A representative of authority must always be responsible for communicating with his or her people clearly and honestly. If this is not the case, then there is indeed a very high risk of populism growing. I would warn the rulers about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U92	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U93	Good manager! Good waitress! I remember the Chancellor of Justice saying here that the legislator, that is, we have been out of action against the Constitution, and the compensation mechanism is seeming. There once stood Neinar Seli, who came up with the idea of an exchange of lands. Has this apparent or unconstitutional omission of our legislative authority begun since Neinar Sel stood on the floor and came up with the idea of land change?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U94	Thank you. We didn't order any legal expertise from the moment the legal barricade was created. When we started working on the draft at the beginning of this year, there were unresolved issues since 2003. This process can also be influenced through the state budget, as I have pointed out. It is such a repeated omission of different coalitions. And I really hope that the new coalition, now freshly in office, with the new government, will be full of action. Indeed, by the 100th anniversary, we must not have such long - term unanswered transactions in front of our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U95	Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You rightly mentioned that the Chancellor of Justice has dealt with this issue and this issue a great deal. Could you clarify the final proposal of the Chancellor of Justice's analysis and how the draft law proposed by the Free Party corresponds to the solution proposed by the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U97	Thank you, my good colleague. The Chancellor of Justice has said this:'§ 20 of the Nature Protection Act is contrary to the Constitution in so far as it provides for the acquisition of land within the limits of the funds allocated from the state budget, but does not provide for any procedural time or other appropriate guarantees for the compensation of landowners within a reasonable time. Given that the problem of delays in the procedures for the acquisition of land has been known for years, the legislator has failed to do anything to improve it against the Constitution. ' Our bill seeks to help solve the problem through the length of this list of disposals. This length could be 50 properties. As I have pointed out, there is a loophole that in the future, the Land Administration, which has to actually make these decisions, will be able to deal with up to 80 properties during the year, for example. In our opinion, the year is sufficient for the landowner to receive a fair and constitutional compensation for a significant restriction.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U98	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U99	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have been working very closely in Valgamaa, Põlva, Võru and Otepää lately, and there has been one question. During the Soviet era, plots of land have also been put under nature conservation unjustly and fundamentally meaninglessly, and this has become a burden on landowners. Can you tell me how many areas that were put under nature conservation during Soviet times, whether because of military parts or something else, have now been reviewed and returned to owners for use, or have some concessions been made so that they can manage their land?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U100	Thank you. I do have the information we asked the Ministry of the Environment only a year ago about how many hectares we're talking about. We can say that there are more than 201000 hectares, 29380 hectares under a stricter regime and 47800 hectares under a less stringent regime. Of course, the situation has changed over the year, but these are official data from the Ministry of the Environment a year ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U101	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U102	Thank you, dear waitress. Your draft stipulates that additional protection for private countries may be envisaged if the number of properties in the order indicated in the draft is 50. As the initiator of the bill, can you tell me how much additional protection you foresee or why this point is necessary? According to my information, the construction of new protected areas on private land is not currently planned. Is this such a foresighted point or why it's written in here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U103	Thank you. Indeed, our aim is to look further into the future so that the list of disposals is not extended due to various political attractions. Fifty properties, as I said before, make sense in terms of processing. If you look at it, so far, government coalitions have not been the most generous with state budget resources. This year, as we know, only EUR 0.8 million were scheduled; at the last moment, in May-June, EUR 1 million were added from the reserve. With EUR 1.8 million, the opportunities may indeed be greater in South-East Estonia, where the price of the land is cheaper. But while we are talking about North Estonia and West Estonia, where the area of restrictions is the largest, or rather, the biggest, the biggest area of influence, it is certainly the second price. This 50 properties is a reasonable period of procedure for the Land Administration, and this is also real given the provision that the government will provide for in the future. Of course, if the allocation is larger, then maybe there is no need to write down 50, then there may be 150 properties. The problem, however, is that the matter has fallen short, 8 to 9 years is not a reasonable time. We must avoid such situations in the future. This 50 is a guarantee that does not depend so much on the pull winds of state budget policy decisions, but it is what the government must consider and fulfil as a duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U104	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U105	Good manager! Good waitress! Estonia is full of natural phenomena and could be protected for a very long time. At the moment, the state takes protection with one hand, but with the other hand, it should compensate the landowners. You're proposing an axe rule to limit the number of properties to 50 so it's as if it does. However, other options are possible, for example, more money could be allocated or you should look at what is being protected at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U106	Thank you. Indeed, there are many solutions. The landowner himself would, of course, be interested if he could return to the land exchange system because his interest is to continue to manage his land. The current solution is that it voluntarily abandons this plot of land and then has to find alternatives to whether it continues its 'normal' economic activity, looking for new plots of land, etc. Landowners themselves say: we recognise and want to protect various species of birds and animals in the same way, but you must understand that there must be a symbiosis. Man is a part of nature, animals and nature is our green area, we must all work together and we can do it. At the moment, however, there is no way of finding a middle road; simply a restriction is imposed. I myself have grown up in the Otepää reserve area and I know how any normal economic activity can be suppressed because there's probably a nest up there somewhere. If we could get such a system of continuous monitoring, these nest trees and nests will be rechecked and the restrictions removed, that would also be the solution. But somehow, as I pointed out in my report, such incomprehensible interaction is also an obstacle to why one or the other possible measure has not been implemented. Therefore, there is no choice but to come to the aid of a solution. Yes, we have only one narrow solution to propose and it is certainly possible to develop more proposals. But what we are proposing is that we take the matter more seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U107	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Can you tell me how many of these land with conservation restrictions have come up, for example, last year and this year until today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U109	Thank you. I swiped this list very proudly, and now I've lost it somewhere. This year, 22 transfer requests were received. Landowners say that since this order is not going anywhere, they have refused to submit applications. But if this system worked, they would, of course, file a request. You're like a prisoner, you can't do anything about it in this country that you keep from it, because it's more of a problem. According to the Constitution, nature is our common property and our common responsibility to protect it. I do not see the problem of why the country as a whole should not do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U110	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I also love nature and rare species very much. But you touched on one aspect of this subject, which you seem to know very well. It is true that at some point in the wild there should also be such a process that a bird builds a nest all the time in one place and on one tree, but its offspring no longer build a nest there. Do you have any information on this kind of monitoring going on? Personally, I think that private land ownership is a very sensible thing about our regime, and most people want to be landowners. Can you estimate how much this monitoring is being done on the basis of the information available? Because if a man sells the land, but in ten years the nest will be gone, he might want it back.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U112	Thank you. The draft concerns those landowners who have an interest in transferring their land with a significant restriction to the State. It is not a coercion to do so, but to do so on the basis of man's free will. The regions are very different. I see that, thanks to several hearings in the Committee on the Environment, the Land Board and the Ministry of the Environment have also been aware of the subject, things have even started to move slightly and monitoring has been activated. The need to update the rules on nature conservation has also emerged very acutely during this debate. They are largely a legacy of the last century, mostly adopted in the mid-1990s. They've already been quietly updated. Yeah, what happened to Otepää was that it was done very quietly and the involvement of landowners was once again small, but things are starting to move a little bit. I think that the more we work together here, both landowners and authorities, the more awareness and care will increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U113	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No more questions for you. I would like to ask Mr Metsoja, Member of the Environment Committee, for the presentation of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U114	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the subject is draft law 291 amending the Nature Conservation Act. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on 21 November, including. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, and Taimo Aasma, Head of the Department of Nature Conservation, Ministry of the Environment, were also invited to the debate. In addition, a member of the Riigikogu, a representative of the Free Party Group, Külliiki Kübarsepp, participated. It was a very good report, and I must say, as a member of the Committee on the Environment, that this issue is very relevant and correct. The Chancellor of Justice has already raised the issue in the past and emphasised that it is not entirely responsible to build private property after nature conservation and that solutions must be found to compensate for private property if the owner so requests. In his speech, however, he made it clear that compensating landowners now seems quite impossible to carry out a mission because the lists are long and there are more requests. The proposal was to make changes in order to stabilise the situation in the future. Indeed, the length of a particular list could be 50 parcels. The Hatter also pointed out that the Land Office would actually be prepared to deal with up to 80 cases a year in order for it to be viable. That's basically how the report ended. We have also heard the Minister for the Environment, Marko Pomerants, who said that the Ministry of the Environment does not support this draft, because there is no direct link between the length of the land's protection and acquisition order, and better compensation for countries with conservation restrictions will ensure that the aid system is improved. He stressed that more money had been made for this. This process has already been discussed several times in the previous government coalition, it has been a topical issue and financial coverage has also been found to compensate land owners in the non- Natura target protection zone. Taimo Aasma added that the Ministry of the Environment has prepared a letter of reply to the Chancellor of Justice and that important solutions will also be identified. Within the current budget, the order of business will reach the statements made before 2013 by the end of next year. Members of the Commission also asked questions and expressed doubts as to whether the best solution was to determine the length of the list. Perhaps, above all, there should be a serious focus on finding money in the state budget. It was mentioned that, in fact, it should be considered whether an object on a particular list still bears the natural diversity it bore in the context of the proposal for a protected area. We need to understand that this process is long. If a species worthy of protection is found either on private land or on any state land, then proceedings are initiated and restrictions are already placed on certain activities, i.e. the use of private property can be limited. If we look at a specific draft, it does indeed deal with the length of the list, but it has been left out of attention that if a procedure is initiated, some restrictions on this parcel will already apply anyway. Such a proposal to deal with it is currently not in the draft. The chairman of the committee was interested, as was the case today in this Chamber, whether the Ministry of the Environment has a new list of areas for which restrictions are planned. The Minister replied that the audit of areas already restricted by 2023 would be carried out first. The Commission also took procedural decisions. The first of these was to appoint Andres Metsoja, member of the Environment Committee, as rapporteur for the draft. Secondly, it was proposed to put the draft 291 on the Riigikogu's agenda today and decided to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U115	Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My understanding of this problem and the position of the Ministry of the Environment on the draft, however, leads to the conclusion that the accent in the ministry is often rather put on what cannot be done and why. We hope that the Chancellor of Justice's position will now force these solutions to be sought. Has the Commission also dealt with the issue of why this unconstitutional omission has arisen, why the Commission has allowed it to occur, and what is the responsibility of the various governments and ministers here, as well as of the Riigikogu? Surely our constitutional inaction, especially that of the Committee on the Environment, is also perceived.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U117	Thank you. The Committee on the Environment has actually been to the Ministry of the Environment and we have had a discussion with ministerial officials on this. We have very seriously focused precisely on why the situation has become this way. On the one hand, the situation has developed this way because of the history of our country. We are a relatively young country, we are committed to protecting nature, and we have all clearly understood that nature is a value. At the same time, land reform has been carried out and people have become landowners. There has also been an exchange of generations where the old man valued property, including the forest, perhaps otherwise than the young master, or culturally, there have also been shifts. Rather, the changes have still been inclined towards the economy. The solution to this issue, however, requires flexibility, particularly from the side of the officials. There have been rigid positions in this context, where, for example, in areas bordering Tallinn, it is desirable to buy out land of nature conservation value, but there have been court cases, because the landowner says that the price is not enough. There is such a system in Estonia that this order will not change. As long as these buy-out issues are resolved on the basis of the so-called queue, no jump can be made to the next case. Once the litigation is over, the case will be settled gradually. In other words, these sums are more prone to urban environments, where the value of the land is something other than rural areas. In fact, it is not fair, because property is important to all of us and it is difficult to distinguish between real estate price formations here. Once again, however, this picture is wider than the specific nature reserves. It starts with the planning law, whether we prefer economic activity or the human environment to the natural environment. Are we flexible in our Nature Conservation Register, dared to look at everyone sincerely and say that the eagle that lived on this land has not been living there for five years now? Do we dare say that if he doesn't live there for five years, we'll take this place out of protective custody? It must be decided whether we are ready to look at the diversity of the species in such a way that if any association or species has reached a level where its protection in the context of the first category is perhaps no longer so topical, then new protected areas should not be created. Can officials negotiate flexibly and actually increase environmental awareness every day? It's also our job.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U118	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U119	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, waitress, for the credit! Since I was asked to leave before the Commission's debate and you mentioned that the representative of the government, or the Ministry of the Environment, is working on solutions to remove the concern raised by the Chancellor of Justice, could you then open up a little bit, in which direction the proposals are coming and why this issue is not directly dealt with by the Commission in the Riigikogu, to whom the Chancellor of Justice has accused inaction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U120	Thank you. Of course, it's always the easiest to start with money. There's been a lot of talk about money here. I repeat that the total amount of taxpayers' funds spent in the 2016 state budget to compensate for the restrictions on private property amounts to EUR 2.1 million. In 2017, this amount will increase to EUR 3 million and has already been agreed in the previous coalition. Now, in turn, the new coalition has agreed that this amount will increase to EUR 4 million in 2018. The ideal situation requested by the Ministry of the Environment would be EUR 5 million per year. Unfortunately, we can't get to that yet. However, as far as the specific proposals submitted by the Ministry of the Environment to the Chancellor of Justice are concerned, I am not going to comment on them. It makes sense to send them to you, and I believe that's possible. I can see that the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment is also sitting in the Chamber, and I am convinced that we will probably be discussing these issues of land buy-out and restrictions more and more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U121	Hatter, question two.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U122	Thank you, Vice President. Good waitress! On the side of the state budget, as I have pointed out, it is a minus or a weak point that if the government changes, the sums of money can change very easily. This sector has no certainty as to the principle of legitimate expectations that the problem will be addressed and looked at in the future. Has the Commission also discussed how these state budget allocations, which you pointed out, which you have agreed on in the new coalition, would continue in the future so that there would not be a decline that would put the system back in a jam and would not give the Land Administration confidence in planning its activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U123	There is probably no more certainty if we provide for a list of 50 properties per year, i.e. that these proportions are kept rigidly in place. The key point is to understand and recognise that it is not possible to do national nature conservation in the interests of all of us by restricting private property rights, where there is a border. I believe that this important step has been taken. The truth is that the proposal that came on the table from the Free Party does not help those private landowners who have already had this problem. Whoever's on that list and has expressed their wish for it will continue to be there, and when new applicants come, they'll still come to the end of the list. The personal question is what I have already emphasised, how lightly new areas should be taken into consideration for nature conservation and how much should be replayed. It's a matter of awareness. I think everyone in this Chamber has realised that more money is needed in this area and that one of our riches is natural diversity. However, this cannot be my responsibility or, specifically, the responsibility of Küllik, for which we are all responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U124	Thank you very much. The request has been exhausted. I am opening negotiations on the general principles of this bill. Artur Talvik on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U125	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I also declare, first of all, that I am the guardian of nature, but even more so, I am a person who lives in a nature reserve and who also has land in a protected area. What I see there every day has still led me to believe that the implementation of nature conservation through these restrictions has gone too far. This has led to overregulation, led to a situation in which officials have acquired so-called unlimited power; they can always prevent a landowner or a person operating in a nature reserve with whatever further restriction. I can tell you that there may be dozens of these restrictions on a piece of land. On the other hand, it has caused people living in restricted areas to know how to say opposition or, in a sense, even hatred of officials, and what is particularly sad, also against conservationists. Perhaps this is a situation where overregulation in nature reserves has simply led to a person being forced to move away to the city, to leave at all. It doesn't serve conservation purposes. The aim of nature conservation cannot be to scare away human life from the land. Draft 291 is one attempt to partly resolve this problem of overregulation, to start a wider debate on nature conservation restrictions or to introduce nature protection to a new level altogether. On a level that would rather invite people to live in nature reserves and which would also teach the government and officials to cooperate with their inhabitants, or, let's say, make a direct deal, a win-win or win-win situation, or take this thinking to a completely different level. Although this bill solves only one very small part of the problem, it could be an initiative that would express the wish of the Free Party to start a broader and more comprehensive debate on nature conservation issues in Parliament. I hope, however, that this bill will not be rejected today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U126	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we must thank the Free Party for raising the issue. As chairman of the Committee on the Environment and as a naturalist according to my first university education, I am only pleased when this hall discusses nature conservation law and nature and environmental issues more widely. Some of the facts that should be repeated in this debate and drawn down red lines for them. First of all, I certainly congratulate those officials who do environmental protection every day. I sincerely believe that they are doing this for the best of goals and precisely for the skills they have, and they are doing it well. I do not say any bad words about them, rather on the contrary, they deserve praise. On the other hand, one comment. If we are constantly talking here about private countries and percentages, then it must be said that only 9% of private countries are those with a nature conservation regime, 91% are state land. At times, it seems in this hall that all nature conservation restrictions are only private land. I would point out that there are actually only 9% of them. But, of course, it has to be resolved, and I am pleased to see that very strong steps have been taken over the last two years. A good colleague, Mr Herkel, asked what had been done in the past. Unfortunately, I can't answer that. I guess everyone can either look up their minds or Google, who has been previous environmental ministers, and why this problem has always been overlooked. Ultimately, it has always been a matter of the state budget, and then you have to look at this hall. Now, indeed, there is a situation where we have taken the initiative to resolve this issue in three or four years, not to draw the line that somewhere on the list there are 50 properties, 80 properties or 40 properties. This problem really needs to be resolved in three or four years. The Land Office can buy out land in the first place for a maximum of EUR 5 million per year. The new coalition agreement foresees EUR 4 million by 2018, almost close to the maximum capacity of the Earth Agency. The calculations show that in three or four years, we're going to get this problem off the table. A good colleague, the initiator of the bill, Külliki Hatter, was worried whether the money would continue if the government changed. Firstly, I am convinced that if the current government does two years and three months of work, it can be said that most of the problem has already been solved. On the other hand, when we look into history, every government has at least come up with the money for this program and the project. If the previous coalition agreement was three million, now it's four. The conclusion is that there will be at least five million next time. So at least we shouldn't be afraid of this point when we look at the law of nature conservation. One important principle that should be addressed once again is that the Estonian state does not currently foresee the creation of new protected areas for private countries. Rather, the process is the opposite: we constantly assess the objectivity of the protection regime of protected objects and the proportionality of the restrictions. It is easier today to give examples from this remote control where the protection value has disappeared and the object has been excluded from protection. Several drafts are still underway to exclude or reduce the area of the protected area until at least 2023. When we are talking about the sector and about the owners of protected private countries, there is certainly one fundamental change that has also been written in a large and black coalition agreement. This is precisely because the aid for the land in the target protection zone will be paid in the same way as for the Natura target protection zone, i.e. EUR 110 per hectare. I think this is the point that private landowners have waited not for years, but for over a decade. So it's fair to do this thing. Once again, thank you for bringing everyone along. Solutions exist and let's not put anywhere to the limit of 50, 60, 70 properties, but to solve the issue in a comprehensive manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-06_U128	Thank you very much. There are no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is to reject the draft 291 at first reading. Let's start preparing the vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the commission to reject the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act 291 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 44 MPs in favour of the proposal, 24 against, no abstentions, 25 members of the Riigikogu did not take part in the vote. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported and draft 291 has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Thank you for your work so far. I wish you every success and strength for the next part of the day, and do not forget that today is, among other things, a naughty day. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 11.53 a.m.
