ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U1	Dear colleagues, honourable Riigikogu, gentlemen captains, sailors and everyone who loves the sea and maritime policy, good morning! We will start the 3rd working week Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U2	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Yesterday, the state budget for next year was handed over, and with it, the topic that the Estonian Educational Workers' Association pointed out in its turn of September 19th will be the subject of the debate. You are certainly familiar with this appeal, because it came to the names of all the political groups, the Government of the Republic and several committees. According to the Estonian Educational Workers' Association, the government's position that education and teachers are a priority in Estonia is not valid. The government has promised that by 2019 the teacher's average salary will be 120% of the national average wage, but the Educational Workers' Association considers that in 2016 the minimum teacher's salary will be far removed from the national average wage. Therefore, in its approach, the Association of Educational Workers brings out a number of fundamental international studies, which show that the salaries of teachers are indeed among the lowest in Estonia compared to the average in the country. A number of analyses carried out in Estonia are also included in the referral. That is why we have five questions for the Minister for Education and Research. We want an analysis and an overview from the Minister. Here's what we're gonna ask. What does he think is the content of the increase of EUR 58? How is the average wage compared to 2017 and how will it reach 120% by 2019? How does the Minister think that the problem of teacher follow-up can be solved, and how does he see the content of a competitive salary? Thank you very much. Let's wait!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U3	I request the speech chair of the Riigikogu Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! Honourable guests! On behalf of five members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I am pleased and honoured to present an inquiry to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. The inquiry concerns the assessment of our ambulance service and the quality of the ambulance service. The inquiry consists of five questions, some of which focus on the work of the Alert Centre. How well is it ensured that a medic with his skills and knowledge is present at the PSAP? Is and to what extent does the European standard currently meet the challenge time, which may be up to two hours? Is and how satisfied is the fact that the ambulance operates according to a standardised algorithm? This means that if a challenge has come to the heavier patient, then the right to interrupt the previous departure is not so severe to the patient. To what extent does this even conform to the ethics of medical care? Have we also carried out studies on the quality of the current ambulance service? We have five questions, we expect meaningful and concrete answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U5	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U6	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that our economic growth is stuck and entangled quite dangerously at 1.3%. One of the measures that many experts consider important is to ensure flexible working relationships. This, in turn, is largely behind the fact that we have a mandatory minimum social tax, which makes hourly wage accounting virtually impossible. I am handing over the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic regarding the abolition of the mandatory minimum social tax' aimed at reviving the labour market in Estonia. I remember we were discussing these topics, both the floor of social tax and the ceiling for this tax, here last spring in June. Those ideas were not supported at the time. The idea of losing the minimum social tax was very sympathetic, but the members of the coalition did not make it to the hall at the time. In the meantime, the opinion festival held a debate between political party leaders, where Margus Tsahkna and Jevgeni Ossinovski expressed very explicit support for this idea. So we have reason to hand over this bill, in a slightly modified form, for a second time. I count on the support of both the Socialists and the IRL. The proposal has several objectives: to boost the labour market and regional policy and to ensure economic growth. Even the gender pay gap would therefore be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U7	Good colleagues, no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries and one draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Let's do a presence check, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U8	Let us now go to the agenda items for today. The first item is the key national question 'The sea does not tolerate standing water. Discussion of maritime affairs as a relaunch of the Estonian economy. Allow me, before going to the debate, to briefly present the procedure for the debate resulting from § 153 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. First, a member of the Estonian Free Party Group, Artur Talvik, will perform. His report lasts up to 15 minutes, followed by questions and answers, lasting up to 20 minutes. After that, Vice Admiral Tarmo Kõuts will report for up to 15 minutes, and then there will be questions and answers that will last up to 20 minutes. Thirdly, the presentation by Roomet Leiger, Director of the Estonian Maritime Academy of Tallinn University of Technology, lasts up to 15 minutes, then there are questions and answers that last up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask a single question to any rapporteur. After the presentations and answers to the questions, we will open a round of negotiations, from which we look forward to taking an active part. The Group of the Estonian Free Party has proposed that representatives of the political groups speak first. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. The Group of the Estonian Free Party has proposed to extend today's session, and we will come back to this proposal if necessary. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Artur Talvik, member of the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U9	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good sailors! I am pleased that today, here in the Riigikogu, an important national issue is the question of how the maritime sector could get the Estonian economy going. But first of all, I would like to congratulate you all on the global Maritime Day, which will take place this year under the auspices of 'Ship' indispensable to the world'. If we put it in the context of Estonia, how do you think 'Shipping is essential for Estonia'? The sea can be very harsh. Yesterday we bowed our heads to remember and commemorate the dead in Estonia. But a positive example is that this year has been declared the year of marine culture. Thank you to my colleague Urve Tiidus, who came up with this initiative, and thank you to all those people who are contributing to this year's success. I very much hope that this year will also change the way the sea is viewed. We love bragging with our sea. We're saying we have a powerful Tallink. We are talking about the length of the history of Estonian maritime affairs. We are talking about the length of the Estonian sea border and how many islands Estonia has. We're talking about sailing around the world. But when we talk about maritime policy and when we talk to people who are more familiar with maritime affairs, we unfortunately find that we are losing the position of the maritime state. What, then, can we do to ensure that this position does not disappear completely? What can be done to change the thinking of the Estonian political elite and to change the paradigm and to make the maritime sector a priority in our country? But let's start at the bottom. There can't be a seaboard without the beachmen. We've talked about this a lot. Today, the Estonian beach tends to overlap with summer houses, which are full of long package windows. It's nice to look at the sea from these cottages, but there's no sense of the sea. The beachman is a person who has been at sea and had contact with the sea since childhood. He knows the moods at sea. He's the bearer of marine culture. I call for the special status of the beachman to be established in Estonia. In the round of questions and answers, I can tell you a little bit more about what that means. In any case, it would be the beachman who carries the sea culture, who could ever become the great captain I myself am a volunteer marine rescuer, and in doing this work, I have been exposed to a lot of maritime aspects. I am very pleased that the voluntary sea rescue has been restored in Estonia. I would like to stress that it has just been restored, because organized voluntary sea rescues actually have a very long history that extends beyond the second half of the 19th century. But the fact that the voluntary sea rescues are very advanced and that the sea rescuers' capabilities are greatly improved is not all. Unfortunately, the marine rescue technical base is very lagging behind. Here again is where the Government of the Republic and we, the Riigikogu, could put our heads together and think about how to get out of this situation. As we move on from here, we could talk a little bit about the construction of small ports. This is a positive development that has taken place in Estonia, but there are also many problems with the construction of small ports. Many ports are built in places where the port should not be, because it is very quickly filled. Many ports have been built for public money, but the owner of this port finds it to be his own, and already uses it as a private enclosed port. As a result, the prices of berths in our small ports are higher than in Finland. When we talk about the so-called grassroots level of maritime development, this is certainly one of the problems why the number of owners of recreational craft and small boats in Estonia is not growing exponentially. As regards small ports, I would also like to mention that it should, however, be very thought out how and where to build them in Estonia. From the small ports, I move on to the larger ports. Let's talk about the Port of Tallinn. Unfortunately, the Port of Tallinn has been long for years, and I say quite brutally, the political dairy cow. Therefore, the trends of the Port of Tallinn have been commuted up and down and have not been based on a long view and assumption that this port is the gateway to and out of Estonia, and this port could be the very important foundation of the Estonian economy. Purgatory is in progress at the Port of Tallinn, and I very much hope that this mindset of past years will burn to every speck of it. There's going to be a change. The Port of Tallinn is faced with a dilemma: should port taxes be reduced and competitiveness improved in this way compared to neighbouring countries, or a'smart port' should be built, which would require more investment. But in the current situation, you can build a smart port, it may even be a very smart port, but if the port doesn't move, then that port doesn't make much sense. Maritime is a comprehensive area, and when a butterfly makes a wing move in another area, it can be very painfully avenging in the maritime sector. Perhaps if our railroad has almost no goods left, it will cost the port a great deal of pain. The government that is in office has not made a great deal of effort to get goods moving on the railways first and foremost. However, there is no port without ships. We have been talking about this for years, and it has also been written very thoroughly in the development plan of Estonian maritime policy for the years 2012 to 2020 that we should restore the register of competitive cargo ships in Estonia for larger merchant ships. The development plan even foresees that there should be 35 vessels in this register soon. However, everything has gone inversely, and during the period of validity of this development plan, the last merchant ship has also left the register. We are in a situation where our country could earn money and give work to many people, but we are not taking advantage of this opportunity. The Reeders say they basically don't matter, because if the state doesn't want them, they're going elsewhere and they're still making profits. But the people who ache for Estonia's maritime affairs do not want the benefits that can be gained from the sea to go elsewhere. This is probably something that others are talking about even more today. We are saying that Estonia is an IT state. We are proud of this and we are exporting products in this area. However, when we look at the Estonian maritime sector, it becomes clear that the IT sector is very far removed from this industry. Maritime affairs is very clumsy, even yesterday. This is where Estonia could once again be a leader, a guide, and an exporter of solutions. We could talk more about that today, too. To sum up my speech, I would like to highlight a few other aspects. These are things that could be taken into account in a wider country and which could, in some ways, be a golden key for the start-up of the economy. First of all, development plans tend to be scenarios in Estonia that remain dusty on the shelf. The development plan for maritime policy has remained dusty there and has not been implemented or has not been implemented. The money to implement this development plan has not been found. It has already passed more than half the period of validity of this development plan and, as we can see, it is really just dusting on the shelf. Development plans should also be looked at flexibly, so that they can be changed as necessary. A lot of things in this development plan would like to be updated by now. Secondly, bureaucracy. Estonia's maritime governance is divided into eight ministries; it does not have a single management. Sailors are used to the captain in the ship being God in heaven, perhaps one of the places where management decisions are made. Estonian maritime policy does not currently have such governance. Agriculture, whose contribution to GDP is smaller, has its own ministry, but the Estonian maritime sector is managed by one of the Departments of Aviation and Maritime Affairs, where only one person with maritime education and experience is employed. Here we could talk about how these silo towers are preventing the Estonian economy from getting started more widely. Third, taxation and its dogmas. We cannot talk about registers without changing tax dogmas. We cannot talk about the entire Estonian economy without us changing taxation of very run-in dogmas. Finally, of course, we are dealing with details. There is no big picture and no courage to deal with it on a large number of issues. We're stuck in little things. We're gonna have little fires ourselves, which we're gonna want to erase ourselves. Maritime affairs is a matter where there is no opposition or coalition. Maritime is something that is either understood or not understood. I very much hope that, thanks to this crucial discussion of the national issue, the mentality will change in Estonia and we will take bold action, as Estonian sailors have always done with bold sailings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U10	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I couldn't help but notice the connection of the IT field to the maritime sector, which was a paragraph in the presentation. This is probably the case that the IT sector is undoubtedly a priority in Estonia, but the maritime sector is not at all, and that is why this debate is here today. I'd like to associate these things even more closely. What should we do to be at the front line of e-maritime, which are these activities and how can we relate our expertise in IT to maritime affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U12	Thank you for your question. Maybe it starts with little things. My personal experience relates to the registration of a recreational craft and the extension of the boatmaster's license. These are very drastic examples. Both recreational boatmaster's licences and driver's licenses are made at the registration centre. If you change your driver's license, you can do it all online and the license will be sent home nicely. If you're going to change your boatmaster's license, you'll still be required to fill out your application on paper, and your license will definitely not be sent home. In the same way, it is difficult to register its vessels in the register. The shipping still loves stamps, even though it's all yesterday. Simplifying and simplifying administration and bringing the IT area into this area is certainly one of the places where we can be at the forefront, or at least at the front line. IT is relatively or even very well developed in navigation or navigation. But that's what it's all about! There are very many conventions in the maritime sector that must be observed, and making things right is our chance and why not take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U13	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We are in the process of and are launching a great deal of reforms. We have a work capacity reform, we have an administrative reform, we have talked about pension reform. There has not been much talk of maritime reform; I have not heard of it at all. At the same time, we also have a reform of the state. Perhaps this maritime issue would then, in my hope, go under state reform. When we talk about state reform, much has been said that we should cut red tape. We have a zero bureaucracy plan. How could this state reform and 'zero bureaucracy' affect the maritime domain?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U15	Oh! As I said here before, maritime governance is fragmented and divided between many ministries. Maritime affairs do not have clear leadership, and different ministries carry things very often to different sides. To give positive examples, one very positive example is that maritime spatial planning has begun. Spatial planning of marine areas means plans similar to the plans of dry land. This is how we are now trying to plan the sea areas as thoughtfully as possible, or to see where the windmill parks could be built, where the birds should enjoy their lives, where they could fish and where the shipping route could go. This is the first attempt to do something very, very thoughtful in the maritime domain. Okay, well, there's also a very thoughtful maritime policy development plan, but as I said before, it's on a shelf somewhere. In short, I very much hope that something will come out of this spatial planning and that it will also lead a certain way of thinking in Estonia. Let's talk about Reid's tea, for example. Although maritime spatial planning does not take place in the area, these things could go "in harmony." Anyone transporting goods from Tallink's ships says the current situation is completely unacceptable. Even the sailors on a long trailer say they can get a lot of gray hair if they drive on that road. On the other hand, planning such things must also take into account the fact that the seaside is a very popular resting place, and when you pound it full of tea, the possibility of rest is lost there. These things need to be argued. But again, that's what the Ministry of Finance is doing. Perhaps when maritime affairs is coordinated by the Department of Aviation and Maritime Affairs of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, planning is carried out by the Ministry of Finance. There are many examples. I've already touched on bureaucracy here. It is clear that we cannot begin to change the maritime conventions that are international. It would be childish to think that we could be some kind of forerunner here. However, we could make proposals in this direction. Once again, when it comes to this reform of the state, it is recalled that, in the case of the so-called sulphur directive, which is now being realised, there was also a great deal of criticism of the administration. The Ministry of the Environment then carried out maritime affairs without having enough contact with the sector itself. There are many things that could also be considered in the maritime sector when it comes to state reform. There's a plan somewhere that transport should be consolidated, but it seems that this plan has remained a plan to date. Of course, consolidation may lead to improvements in the management of state-owned companies, but it does not really move the goods. There is a plan somewhere that "public shipping" or "state ships" could be built in Estonia under one roof. I have not heard of this plan being realised very quickly at the moment. There are also, of course, contestants here as to whether this unthinking consolidation is the best idea or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U16	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U17	Thank you, manager. Good waitress Arthur! We know that we have almost no economic growth and that people are migrating out of here. At the same time, I have formulated the situation in Estonia for myself in such a way that we have four riches. For one thing, we may have people. Secondly, we have land, agriculture. Thirdly, we have forest, or forest management. Fourthly, we have the sea, fishing and shipping. We're still doing something about agriculture and forestry, and we're doing quite well, but why isn't the maritime industry at all? I think it's a big opportunity. Why is it left behind, why is it not a priority at all? I think it's a big opportunity. What's the main reason? You're a seaside boy, you could explain that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U18	Thank you for your question. Here I come back to regional policy. The beachman, as such, is about to disappear from Estonia. Some of the border zones put the biggest bang on him, because people basically moved out of the sea because their activities there were limited. But even now seaside activities are subject to many limitations. I will, for example, give you how crazy it is to make a barn for yourself, how much bureaucracy you have to deal with, and so on. Let's just say they look at the sea and go to the sandy beach somewhere, but the sense of what that sea really is is is gone from society. There is certainly one reason for this, too, that there are few people with a sense of the sea among politicians. It can be said with jokes that Andrus Ansip, who was Prime Minister for a very long time, was a boy of Tartu, wasn't he? In short, there are many such details. But what I'm trying to tell you is that it's not just fishing and shipping. Maritime is an area of very, very many things: tourism, the same wind farms, or energy source, etc. This effect is very great. They say one job at sea creates three jobs in the countryside. These are largely well-paid jobs; here we cannot talk about underemployment or anything like that. I think that the greatest problem is precisely the lack of coordination and the lack of maritime mentality in political governance, let us put it this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U19	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You were right to say that there was no big picture, no vision, no courage. I don't think there's any entrepreneurship either. But at the same time, you said that management is fragmented between several ministries and we don't know who the captain is. So who do you think this captain is supposed to be? In the pre-war Republic of Estonia, it was the Head of State who said that maritime policy is part of our security. Who's that supposed to be today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U21	We've had a great time when our president was named Sea. He certainly took the subject of the sea to heart and for this thinking to be very firmly established in Estonia. Unfortunately, there hasn't been a direct spokesperson since Lennart on the subject of the sea. But it was just a front-chain. I do not know exactly who it should be, but the maritime policy development plan has said that there could be a committee with the Prime Minister, I don't know. Lately, more and more is said that there could be a maritime administration in Estonia that would, in practice, already deal with maritime policy in a very comprehensive way. I think it's one of the basic problems. I used to tell jokes that the Ministry of Rural Affairs could be the Ministry of Rural and Marine Life. The calculations are different, but the maritime sector still accounts for 4 to 5% of GDP, while agriculture accounts for around 3.5%. Farmers have their own ministry to stand up for them and deal with them, but maritime coordination does not have such central coordination. In my opinion, it should be at a higher level of management, so-called 'direct control' to the Prime Minister. It would also emphasise that maritime affairs is a priority in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U22	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U23	Thank you! I fully agree that commercial shipping is a major problem in Estonia and should be dealt with consistently at national level. But I want to ask you about the small shipping business. I am also entirely in agreement with what you said about the fact that the registration of recreational craft and the management of recreational craft, how to say, are completely out of order and destitutely poor. You also mentioned that you would like to establish the status of a beachman. As a third generation beachman, I'd like to know what kind of status I'm about to get.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U24	I live most of my time in Lahemaa on the Juminda peninsula by the sea, and although I am not a third generation beachman, I certainly consider myself a beachman. It's like Lahemaa is protecting, let's say, the same cultural heritage. Interestingly, when there is talk about cultural heritage and we ask what this cultural heritage is, it turns out that it is still the life of coastal fishermen and beachmen. When we start looking at the regulations that are in Lahemaa, we will see that the same beachman who lives there by the sea and bears this cultural heritage is when he wants to get a fishing net permit, for example, in exactly the same state as a landman. We've been talking in Lahemaa that if we live in a zone with natural constraints, we could get some exceptions in return. I am thinking, for example, of the same authorisation for gill nets or the easier possibility of building a barn and other such things. In my opinion, the special status of a beachman would mean that a person living on a beach would have some advantages in front of others that would have to do with this beach. He lives in the wind anyway. Today, for example, I read in an article that it is very difficult to grow grain by the sea. If the beachman were to be able to deal with things that are maritime-related, being in a privileged position compared to others, it would create a situation where more and more people hopefully identify themselves as a beachman, sign up to their cottages and start living there, certainly bringing benefits to the local government. That thought went through here a few years ago, but unfortunately, it didn't get anywhere. If you look at the big picture, this special status or status could be established, it could be done even experimentally, by region at first.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U25	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U26	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'll take it from here. The South Estonian Sea is Peipsi. Does it have to be salty to get this beachman's status, or could a person near Peipsi, for example, have that status?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U27	I think it's for sure. This water, which is in Narva-Jõesuu, is likely to be almost as fresh as Peipsi water. So it doesn't really matter. The border of a saltier and less salty sea runs about where I live. I know the sea will be saltier for a few days. So why not, these people, too, are working to keep the so-called beach alive, and there can also be big captains, big fishermen, big boatmakers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U28	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U29	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I fully agree with what has been said by my good colleague, Rait Maruse. Recently, I also went to renew the certificate of my own ship's boatmaster. I totally agree with the need to revise the law a little bit. The process of renewing these licences should be as smooth and simple as the renewal of driving licences. But what do we do with young people's offspring? I myself once started at the Estonian Young Sea Club. We had two great training ships: Juku and Juhan. We drove through the Baltic Sea with them, and there was no further sailing than that, because the border came. But how do we attract young people now? What can be done to make the Estonian maritime sector bigger in the eyes of the world so that we can still stand out? Otherwise, we'll be doing our little thing in this little Baltic Sea. Is there anything we can do to make the world stand out by our actions and races?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U30	I have a personal experience here. Two years ago, we began organizing camps for young marine rescuers on our peninsula. That is where we basically teach the same marine culture, without any national programme, but as a grassroots initiative. Fathers who worked on sea rescues found that children's lives should at least be as interesting as that. I am very pleased that, in the first year, when 60 children came to the camps, this year it was so that we could not take over 90 children and had to leave 20/30 children at the door. Small things that teach children basic knowledge are crucial. This is certainly a prerequisite for the emergence of this great idea of these little things. Of these children, captains may come in the future. Even if such a child becomes a so-called earthling, it certainly carries a sea culture in its heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U31	Good waitress, thank you! I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu speech chair, Vice Admiral Tarmo Kõuts!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! Dear captains and sailors, present and future! I am pleased that the maritime problem has finally reached this hall, before our representatives. Maritime problems are not only a concern of a small group, i.e. seafarers, but are a concern of the entire Estonian people. The fact that the maritime sector is one of Estonia's national goals is clear. I think it's supported by everyone in this room. There are a lot of problems, and we should try to find out a little bit about them today. After all, it is clear to the fool that the problems will not be solved by themselves, but must be solved. The international competitiveness of the Estonian maritime industry is declining year after year, as our own country has not consistently dealt with maritime affairs to the same extent as our good neighbours on the Baltic Sea coast. I do not want to claim that there has been no action at all, certainly there is, but not enough. This is not just about shipping, but about the lack of management or coordination of the entire maritime cluster. This so-called liberal economic model is undoubtedly very good and economical, but it does not work under international conditions of competition in the maritime sector, believe me. International business rules at sea and narrowly national standards cannot change them, unfortunately, but we are putting our shipowners, sailors and all the people involved in the sea in a difficult position. Our country has 45,000 square kilometers of land and allegedly 36000 square kilometres of sea area. Why is it supposed to be? If you open ENE, you won't find that number there. If you find it anywhere, maybe on the Internet. We also claim to have 2200 islands, but perhaps 1587, this figure has not been fully clarified. This suggests once again that maritime affairs, as an industry, are far from a priority in our country. This non-priority is already seriously disrupting the entire country's information field. We have ministries for the management of the area that are involved in this matter in their administration. We even have the Ministry of Rural Affairs. As Artur Talvik said in half with a joke, the Ministry of Rural Affairs could also be the Ministry of Marine Life. But, unfortunately, it isn't. There are eight departments in contact with the sea in Estonia, but maybe nine ministries and each ministry has a coordinating administrative unit, but this is not the case in the maritime sector. Other countries have ministries, institutions or something else. Estonia also has something else. This something else is the Department of Aviation and Maritime Affairs of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. We fly and swim at the same time. In this department, the miracle of miracles! There is also one person with a maritime education at work. How do you think that maritime can be coordinated in Estonia at national level? Nothing. And it's not. All the more so since this department does not have the necessary powers and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does not have the necessary powers. If the European Union has long understood that maritime transport is a very important and promising industry, Estonia feels differently for some reason. The European Union has allowed its Member States to support the maritime sector as they see fit and has given the power to take measures that are also fixed in the corresponding documents, which are three. One of these is the Community guidelines on State aid to maritime transport since 2004. These documents are still valid. I'm afraid we're all the same. Saving a sinker is a matter of the drowner's own business. But the sinker is not only maritime, the whole of Estonia suffers from it. This is why the ships that sailed under the Estonian flag and the Estonian shipowners, as I have already said, have also sailors on the free market in an unequal competitive situation. It also does not comply with the principles of the European Union. How many cargo ships do you think have remained in the Estonian ship register at the moment because of this inadequate business environment? Zero! When we regained independence, there were 50, including the Balkers with a displacement of 50,000 and more tons. Imagine, not 500, but 50,000 tons! Much of them, more than half of them, were new or quite new and modern ships. Our southern neighbour, Latvia, is, in our opinion, much less a maritime state. They do not have any islands, we have 2200 more than Greece has. In Latvia, this situation became harder until the moment they realized that they could no longer go down. They stopped by two ships. Following the adoption of national maritime measures, the number of ships has increased to 21 and remained as such for almost 10 years, suggesting that maritime transport is necessary for the country. Apparently, the maritime industry is profitable. Let's talk about money. The cost for the owner of the ship to keep one sailor under the Estonian flag is around 2 000 euros per month, while the other European Union maritime countries have just over 1,000. I am thinking of the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Latvia, Lithuania and others, as well as third countries. Since the ITF has also set a minimum wage rate for ships, this difference is not covered by the stringing of sailors. We have been able to stay on the water in passenger shipping so far because wages vary between us and Finland. But it won't last forever. Wages, as we know, will rise even in the Republic of Estonia, and will rise vigorously. One day, the moment will come when the Tallink Group will be forced to think about what will happen next. Consider an example. When Tallink Group took its passenger ship on the Riga route, they were forced to fly the Latvian flag. I have an accident, under the Latvian flag! The result is a little thought-provoking. We lost a few hundred jobs and taxes are now due to Riga. Jobs were lost as a result of the flag State's determination of the composition of the crew. The majority of these people joined these Estonian sailors was 5,000 circa, but maybe 6,000 also, who are forced to work under a foreign flag. It's not like we want Kalevisons growing up! Companies registered in Estonia operate on about 60 ships. I mean the ships you could call a ship, or vessels with a displacement of more than 500 tons, which, unfortunately, all sail under a foreign flag. This is because doing business under the Estonian flag is simply not favourable. The owner of the vessel cannot work with damage. In order to bring these and other ships into the Estonian register, it would have been necessary to take national measures to ensure a level playing field for shipping companies already yesterday. The Maritime Advisory Board, which includes several captains, such as Captain Uno Laur, as well as others, shipowners, people involved in ports and the sea, of course also the director of the Maritime Academy, has been offering for years that there could be a package of measures to help Estonia emerge from this situation. However, these measures do not require new investment from the State, but they should bring direct and indirect benefits. These measures mean changing our laws and, in particular, our tax policy. The first proposal is precisely on changes to the tax system. The second proposal is on tonnage tax for ships, in particular with regard to the construction of ships. The third proposal is on the state guarantee of credits for the construction of ships. We know that shipbuilding is extremely expensive. As far as I know, there is no person in Estonia that is so rich that it would be able to build a two-million-dollar ship by firing a so-called hip. The fourth proposal is the legalisation of the shipping company as a form of business. What does that mean? If people have a cash balance in fact all have something in their stockings, then the investment in shipping of these scraps would be very welcome, but for this to happen, these operations must be legally covered and protected by the state. The most urgent changes in tax policy and legislation would, of course, guarantee the same conditions for sailors or shipowners who prefer the Estonian flag as their competitors in the Baltic Sea and not only there, but throughout the world sea. Marine is known to be an international business area. All the money that travels in the maritime world is export money, in the old days they used to call it gold rubbles. This is why all countries are fighting to support their maritime sector and to obtain these export amounts into their budgets. Even Luxembourg has a merchant fleet. But how many kilometres does Luxembourg have on the sea border? I think he doesn't have it, and he can't have it. However, Luxembourg has realised that sea business is beneficial for the country. Today, many sailors, perhaps even the majority of the 5,000 Estonian sailors, are tax residents of other countries and have solved their social problems outside Estonia. But they are citizens of the Republic of Estonia. What happens to them when they come home? Who's waiting for them here? The country doesn't expect them. We have studied the positive experiences of other European Union maritime states. For example, the Netherlands is a country the size of which is comparable to us; a little more people live there; the sea is as much as we have compared to the surface area, but the islands are, of course, few again. In the Netherlands, the number of commercial vessels increased from 550 to 700 after national shipping measures were taken. Before that, they had the same process as we did: the ships simply left the Dutch flag, because it was difficult to manage. Tax revenue would also increase the receipts of all other taxes and the turnover of business in the maritime economy. Let me remind you that we are talking about the export of services. I repeat: exports, not imports. This should be the direct objective of each country. The results of a study carried out in the Netherlands indicate that the growth of domestic entrepreneurship in the maritime sector will lead to an increase in maritime entrepreneurship on land in proportion to 1:3. If this ratio is transferred to employment, we will have the result that one additional sailor on a ship carrying the Estonian flag will create a job for three people on land. I am not even talking about infrastructure development, railroad or ports. Tonnage tax, why am I even talking about this? This is certainly not a problem today, but if we look to the future and want to build new ships, then it is worth thinking about tonnage tax, tonnage tax versus company tax. The state guarantee for loans for the construction or acquisition of ships would also be an effective factor in bringing new vessels to Estonia. We hope that our government will have so much common sense and discretion that during this difficult time, Estonia will be able to take these measures into account and implement them. Time is running, and we're already late. Maritime affairs is the national interest of Estonia, our historical heritage. We've been wearing the title of the sea people for 5,000 years. I don't think we'd want to bury it here tonight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U33	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr Kõuts, thank you very much for your very meaningful presentation. I was really listening. But I'm asking you very narrowly. Do you think... However, I understood your call to the question 'Did I? 'I think the answer is yes. Therefore, what tax exemptions should be imposed on seafarers' labour taxes so that Estonia is competitive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U35	There is an opportunity to move in two directions: either to return the social and income tax paid to shipowners, as the Republic of Finland does, for example, or to regulate the contributions of seafarers, as Latvia and Lithuania do. Latvia has reduced these payments; Lithuania has changed them. In any case, every sailor who works under the Estonian flag and every ship that sails under the Estonian flag will be useful to the state. I would also like to make it clear that these taxes are currently not collected at all by the State. This is now a calculated approach, but if we could bring back lost sons, or 50 ships under the Estonian flag, then with these labour taxes we could bring the circa million euros per year to the Treasury. There's almost as much to be added to the tonnage tax. To earn this money, you don't have to invest, you just have to view maritime affairs as your own thing, not as a stranger.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U36	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U37	Good manager! Good waitress! We have mostly asked in this Chamber why the Estonian state treats farmers in such a way as to put them in an unequal competitive position without paying the promised subsidies. You have now said that the Estonian state is also doing so with seafarers and maritime affairs. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U38	When we compare the maritime economy to agriculture, we actually see that agriculture is still ahead of a long tree. They have their own ministry, they have their own administrative units, they have a national support programme, a European Union support programme that the maritime community does not have. Why is the maritime sector still in a worse position than agriculture? That's a good question for all of us. Today is, by the way, the day of the day, and it's said that every ram has its own day of the day. I mean, it's been 25 years since Maritime Day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U39	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Vice Admiral! You also briefly stopped at your presentation on passenger shipping. I fully agree that it may also be difficult to keep passenger ships under the Estonian flag in the future. I know that Tallink recently made some kind of a call or sent a letter somewhere about the fact that port charges in Estonia are relatively high compared to other countries. There is no doubt that we are also in competition with neighbouring countries here. You have dealt with and studied the maritime domain thoroughly. What's the state of play? Port charges are an important aspect apart from labour taxes, tonnage taxes and registration fees. The port is a state company, so there could also be policy making here. What is our situation compared to Finland, Sweden and Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U41	Good question. Let's look at the average cargo ship, the circa 4,000 GRT. Port taxes in Tallinn amount to 800 euros (some years ago they were 842 euros). In Latvia, it is EUR 250 and EUR 450 when I am not fooled by memory. Finland also has a lower tax than we do, I do not know the exact amount. However, it is clear that by raising taxes, we do not attract ships here. Shipowners who operate their ships in the Baltic Sea are looking for ports where they do not have to pay so much taxes. It's a perfectly clear business rule. However, this is indeed a point. What do we want, do we want the turnover, or do we want the ships coming to our ports to die out at all by means of high taxes? Business always finds its way out, but we may not like this exit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U42	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you very much, honourable rapporteur, for bringing the debate to the issues of the blue economy, and thank you very much for the concrete proposals. This year of marine culture deals with "soft values" - the issues of being a coastal nation of Estonians. This grateful initiative works, must be acknowledged. Do you think the next year should be the year of the maritime economy or maritime shipping in order to solve the long-term competitiveness problems in our maritime industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you for your presentation, Mr President. My question concerns maritime surveillance. There is a need for transnational cooperation in the area of maritime safety, information exchange and so on. What is Estonia's capacity and general situation here now, if it can be touched briefly to ensure its safety and exchange of information with neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U45	Thank you. I mentioned that shipping is the most important branch of maritime affairs. After all, the maritime cluster consists of a number of sub-clusters. Here I give an example of Tallink as a maritime company. Shipping is one and a very important part of this company, but Tallink transports a lot of goods and passengers, it provides a number of services in accommodation or catering. Perhaps, in fact, when it comes to shipping or maritime affairs, a great many other sectors will also benefit from this. Let me give you some examples. Look at our neighbors, look at how much work they're working there to get ships under their flag and how it's justified itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U46	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Leiger, thank you for your presentation. At the end of your presentation, you also touched on the need for research, even mentioned some topics. How do you assess the overall level of science and applied work in college, has it been consistent? Have you, for example, considered smart specialisation in college or even applied for these projects?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U48	Thank you. In fact, my presentation made it soundly clear that the maritime cluster has been studied, but this should be done in greater depth. Certainly, the Tallinn University of Technology is not only involved in the study of this cluster with its own structural units, and it does not have to be the only one to deal with it, but in Estonia there is still this competence. Certainly, the state and ministries have a very important role to play here in ordering studies. I can say that the state contributes significantly more to research and ordering than it did a few years ago. I don't care if it's the same report, because a few years ago there wouldn't have been much to tell.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U49	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U50	Good President! Good speaker, thank you for your speech. By characterizing the cluster, you also highlighted shipbuilding. That's not much to say today. Do you have an overview of the state of shipbuilding in Estonia, whether we still have ships being built and how much potential for development in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U51	Thank you. Shipbuilding is a sub-cluster of the maritime cluster. I say this: companies operating in this cluster are quite successful, despite not such a very positive and favourable economic environment. For example, the construction of small ships in Saaremaa has developed very well, the construction of large ships maybe not so much. Separate shipbuilding as a sub-cluster has not been studied, six or seven years ago a cluster of recreational craft was investigated, but we have examined the labour needs of the various sub-clusters in the maritime academy as part of the labour needs of the maritime sector. Obviously two trends emerge, I am not saying that they are the most important, but they are important: one is the training of crew members on a larger scale and the other is the training of specially prepared specialists for shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U52	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U53	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Mr Leiger! It's always wise to compare yourself with your neighbors. You touched the economic side. What contribution does the maritime sector make to the economies of Latvia, Lithuania, Finland and Sweden, how many per cent of GDP? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U54	Thank you. That is a very good question, but it is quite difficult to answer, because we need to understand that the importance of maritime affairs in different countries is different. That's why I don't know how to get you a specific bill. However, I did see this morning that, for example, in the Netherlands, which was discussed earlier, the maritime cluster accounts for 3% of the economy. But these are not comparable things. There are a lot of different nuances to consider.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U55	Let's move to Hiiumaa. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Director of the Maritime Academy, thank you for your very educational presentation. But do you have an overview of the extent to which the marine education network promoted very strongly by Mr. Kõuts has survived? How many seaside upper secondary schools or comprehensive schools have today retained maritime education or maritime class?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U57	Thank you. It's complicated. The Maritime Policy Development Plan also sets out maritime education and its sustainability as a separate chapter. It has been argued that this education can be sustainable if we start to grow the next generation through low-land recreational education, hobby groups and maritime classes. As far as I know, the maritime class has survived only in Saaremaa, Kuressaare has one class.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U58	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Director of the Estonian Maritime Academy, thank you very much for your comprehensive and very thorough presentation. My question is directly about your specialty. What about the young people who come to study at the academy? Are there enough, is there a strong competition, or could there be more of these young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U60	Thank you. It is no secret that young people in Estonia are getting less and less. The major problem is that the university's first course has many more study places than there are upper secondary school graduates. This also affects marine education. We have certain limits. Speaking of higher education, to which specialties we accept people, it has to be said that it relates directly enough to the research carried out on how much the maritime sector needs specialists with one or another specification in Estonia. Marine education is quite specific, but so far we have succeeded and we have met most of the study places, but of course competition could be greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U61	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U62	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! My question is similar to one of the previous questions on responsibility. As Artur Talvik mentioned in his presentation, the state has a development plan to develop the Estonian maritime sector, but this development plan has not been completed. At the same time, the completion of the development plan falls within the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and the work of the entire government is coordinated by the Prime Minister. Can you estimate where this development plan is going to go, who should be responsible for it and where these major errors have been? At the maritime conferences, the representatives of the Ministry and the minister themselves have confirmed that Estonia is a maritime state and they face the sea people, but unfortunately there is a lack of real action and the situation is as if 180 degrees different. What do you think is the biggest problem that is currently hindering development?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U63	Thank you, good questioner! You're putting me in a very difficult position considering my position. But once again, I will state my personal position. As the previous speakers have said, the maritime policy, which has been put together in a very serious way, has been caught between the covers, it has been through this hall and the government, and there have been two operational programmes. Some of this policy has been implemented or implemented. However, there was an example that before the plan started, if there were some other merchant ships under the Estonian flag, then there are no more such ships. Why this has happened cannot be answered unambiguously. However, it is a positive trend to see that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or the Maritime Administration, through working groups or groups and initiatives, has either taken a strong step towards amending the law, or are trying to further analyse and implement the objectives outlined in maritime policy. Whether or not this will work by 2020, I cannot say.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U64	Mr Leiger, thank you for your report and your answers. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Erki Savisaare, representative of the Group of the Estonian Central Party, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U65	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U66	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is a sea state. There's no doubt about it if we look at our location. The Estonian sea border is nearly 3800 kilometres long, we have 35,000 square kilometres of territorial sea. About 1000 companies with around 20000 jobs are involved in the maritime economy in Estonia, and their contribution to our GDP is more than 5%. We have even adopted a maritime policy development plan until 2020. It therefore seems that all the preconditions for a successful maritime state exist. However, reality is not at all delightful. In spring 2014, the last cargo ships left the Estonian flag. There is a real risk that the same will happen to passenger ships. In this respect, shipping is not lost by itself, with larger shipowners or operators operating around 60 vessels but registered in the registers of other countries. Why has Estonia gone so badly? Listening to today's debate, it seemed to me that no matter what area we were talking about, the problems still start in one place: the government simply does not listen to what people who are actually doing in the field are saying. A Maritime Advisory Board was established in 2008, one of its objectives was to advise the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on the development of Estonian maritime affairs. There is even a document entitled 'How to bring ships under the Estonian flag', which describes problems and offers solutions. Our weakness is that the Estonian ship register is not competitive compared to similar registers in other countries. Firstly, the labour costs of our crew members are high compared to those of other countries. Secondly, the operations relating to the ship's register are complicated. Thirdly, it is very cumbersome to hire foreign seafarers. One solution is the introduction of a system with two registers. Only companies physically located in Estonia would be included in the first register. The aim of the second, so-called open register would be to attract foreign shipowners to Estonia, as the shipowner would use this register to get the flag of a Member State of the European Union on his ship and the register would be effective and customer-friendly. It would, of course, be important for both registers to have a very favourable taxation on the remuneration of crew members. The tonnage tax levied on ships could compensate for the loss of income due to the exemption of seafarers. I'll give you a simple example of life. The fact that Regina Baltica was under the Latvian flag saved more than 1 million euros a year for Tallink, but Estonia lost both jobs and the corresponding tax receipts. I think that today's debate on a key national issue will bring maritime affairs back to the table of the government. The Maritime Policy Development Plan already allowed domestic shipping companies competitive conditions at least equivalent to those of neighbouring countries or the development of such conditions two years ago. However, there are still no such conditions. The development plan has not been completed, although it has been repeatedly recalled to the government. We hope that, after today's debate, the feet will be removed from the belly and that this issue will be dealt with in the ministry. If there is no necessary competence, as has also been demonstrated in this debate, I would encourage them to ask for information from the Maritime Advisory Board, where there is information and knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U68	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U69	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U70	When we are talking about a maritime cluster, we are talking about all the economic and life activities related to maritime affairs, as well as beaching. I really support this approach. When we talk about the situation of our beachmen, it is clear that we are dealing with the bearers of Estonian marine culture. If it is claimed that the two oldest settled peoples of Europe are the Basques and the Finno-Ugrians, we are Finno-Ugric people, as we know, who have been able to remain in the same place for thousands of years, to preserve their language and culture, and we have also been able to achieve nationalism, we conclude that Estonian maritime culture is also one of the oldest in Europe. It's a value in itself. Sea-culturers are beachers. If Aunt Maali lives far away in a beach village, where the post office has been moved ten kilometers away, the nearest store is five kilometers away, I'm not talking about the archipelago, what does it look like in the eyes of her children? We want our beach life to be sustainable. Aunt Maal's life, as Artur Talvik has said, is limited to nature conservation restrictions that protect seals and other fine animals and fish but do not protect the beach. If Aunt Maal needs a fishing permit to preserve this marine culture, she can't. We know how to apply for recreational fishing permits. It's on the x-day or the d-day at 9:00, it's on the fast-fingered lucky story. If there is no strong server and no fast internet, it is hopeless to get a license. The beachman, of course, doesn't have either. What do we want to achieve with this? Do we want to completely wipe out the beach? I think this year of supporting maritime life should be announced absolutely and very soon until it is too late.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U71	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U72	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, speaker. The register of cargo ships has now been very much discussed. It is obvious that if such a register came to Estonia, top lawyers, auditors, accountants and other such people would be able to work with it. But there is a risk that if we completely tax-free this matter or impose minimum taxes and conditions, we could become a "flag of convenience." Where does it run from, so that Estonian shipowners and not only Estonian shipowners would be willing to register their ships on the Estonian register, but we would not be able to get a flag of convenience to lower the image of the passenger ships?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U73	There are two types of registers. There are closed registers, i.e. state registers, in which the national fleet and often other vessels such as passenger ships, where very strict, I repeat, very strict standard requirements for both the ship and the crew are entered. There are also open registers. Once again, open registers have three or four levels. The lowest level is the flags of convenience, which we certainly do not want to put our ships in, and we are not moving towards. But there are other options. The so-called state register can have different levels: more closed and open. According to my information, our Maritime Administration is working very hard to select these scenarios for Estonia. It's clear that if we don't straighten our register, the ships won't be able to come here. They just can't come here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U74	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable spokesperson! There has been repeated talk of a lack of legislative work on this issue. What changes in the laws have already been touched upon here once, but I ask again in terms of clarification, and what investments are essential to restoring Estonia's status as a maritime state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U76	The amendments to the law should be particularly relevant to the tax policy landscape. Dogmas can't run the economy. We have reached the current economic situation, riding on these dogmas, where the economy has, in a sense, been entangled and for a long time. It is clear that there is a need to review the approach to certain sectors of the economy. Maritime affairs is undoubtedly in crisis now and, therefore, it could also have been declared as a priority area in our country for the next five years, I suggest. Speaking of law again, I must admit that this issue is being dealt with. There is also much about this in the implementing legislation of the Maritime Policy Development Plan. As far as I'm concerned, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is concerned, this story is progressing now, although not as quickly as we would like. Even a certain working group has been set up which should deal with tax policy, but the problem is the attitude of the Ministry of Finance, which has not always been the most positive in this regard. This process has almost stopped right now, according to my records, of course. The laws should express the state's attitude towards the shipping sector. In other words, if, for example, I want to build a ship and take a loan for it, someone has to guarantee that loan. In Germany, for example, the German state guarantees this and, according to me, several Estonian ships have therefore been built in Germany. This is the result of legislative action. When we are talking about the creation of shipping companies, this too requires legal clarification and its intervention by legislative action. There's gonna be more of these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U77	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U78	Sorry, I'll finish first! Investments are not directly affected by these changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U79	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U80	Thank you. Dear Mr. Thunder! I'm a city dweller, but a couple of months ago, I went to Ust-Luga and I saw things develop there. I listened to you and Mr Talvik as a colleague. Talvik said that the situation is unacceptable, you are talking about maritime affairs, that the job is not done. The proposals have, of course, been made. When I was listening to your two speeches, it was all in black tones, to be honest. But someone's guilty. Perhaps the Vice Admiral has the courage to say why the maritime situation is so bad now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U81	If the situation were good, I wouldn't be standing here today. This is not the place where success reports are presented. Unfortunately, yes, in 25 years the maritime problem has slipped into an ever deeper water vortex. We really must look to those governments that have ruled for 25 years. All governments have had the opportunity to stop this process, all governments. I'm not going to pick up names or parties here because, unfortunately, there are a lot of people responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Thunder! I am pleased that representatives from all the political groups are taking part in this debate. But what we do not have today in this debate is, of course, executive power. So that this debate does not remain such a unilateral one-sided assessment of the bad situation, I will raise this question: what contacts have the advocates of the blue economy had in recent times with the government, with the various ministries, with the Prime Minister? You have already said that there are reluctances to tax changes in the Ministry of Finance, but still, are there any promises or any hope of how we can proceed? When was the last time you were able to talk to any member of the Government of the Republic about these matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U83	Thank you. Good question. The 11th International Maritime Conference was held recently in Tallinn, where Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, also spoke. He said there that both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Minister personally face the sea. That's good to hear. The second question is what exactly is the authority of one ministry and what are its options. I believe that it would have been at the heart of this matter if the coalition agreement had set out the relevant points, or if the current government's decision were to give one ministry, such as the Ministry of Economic Affairs, a certain profiling position so that it would be entitled to direct and lead one or the other process. Speaking about the second half of the question, I personally have not been able to speak directly to the ministers on this matter lately, but we have been communicating on various issues through public officials, including the issues of the Year of Marine Culture, which I am dealing with. We have repeatedly talked to certain specialists about the problems of the Beachmen, the specialists of several ministries have been present. Perhaps you remember that the previous Riigikogu also received a proposal for beaching, but unfortunately it did not fly from the Committee on Economic Affairs. In other words, it was sent back because neither the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications nor the Ministry of Finance at ministerial level supported this proposal. However, officials who understand the situation would have been very in favour of the state dealing with it at political level.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U84	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would like to ask you about marine education, because the next presentation is driving towards this subject. Without a proper maritime education, it is undoubtedly impossible to talk about other activities. There has been talk about coastal culture and small ports. In fact, it is very important that sailors and women grow up and grow up in the first place, including our small hunting clubs and enthusiasts. But how do you assess the situation in marine education? I came across this topic when the sea school was closed in Pärnu. I know that the competence centre and the provision of maritime education in Saaremaa are still in force and focused on Tallinn. What is the state of play, and in this context do you think we are on the right track?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U86	Thank you! When I began my marine education in 1990, I was a young captain at the time and left the sea to restore maritime education in Estonia, we started by creating maritime classes throughout the coast in coastal schools, especially in secondary schools. I also went to teach myself that barbed wire would disappear from the minds of the people that the Soviet occupation had created there. Unfortunately, there is not much left of these sea classes today, because without public support it is relatively difficult to keep this process going. The same goes for the fate of Pärnu Marine School. Maybe it's a normal process, but I'm not saying I really like it. When we talk about the marine academy, we know that the marine academy is currently a college of Tallinn University of Technology, although relatively separate, but still under the university. As a result, the college is no longer run by the Rector, as I used to be the Rector, but by the Director. We have a young and very capable director. When it comes to the state of our marine education, it must be said that it is at a very significant level in Europe, if not to say, well above average. So let's be proud!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U87	Mr Vice Admiral, thank you for your presentation and your answers. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair... A procedural question, Aadu Black. Give me the microphone Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U88	I pressed in my request for a question when Artur Talvik spoke, but for some reason, independently of me, my name disappeared from the screen, even though I wanted to ask a constructive question. I'm purely procedurally curious about what this is all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U89	Thank you, Mr. Black! I also noticed that the names of the questioners disappeared from the screen, and I was also in the 'internal discussion' with myself about why this happened. I think that even now that the Vice Admiral has left this remote control, the names of those asking for the screen will disappear and must be re-registered. This happened because there is one question for each waitress from a member of the Riigikogu. That's the reason. IT PROBLEM, I THINK, BUT I'M SORRY. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Director of the Estonian Maritime Academy of Tallinn University of Technology Roomet Leiger!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U90	President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Colleagues! Guests! In my presentation, I will focus on referencing a number of studies analysing the impact of maritime influence on the economy. But maybe it would be appropriate to explain some of the terms for clarity first. We heard words like'maritime cluster','maritime','maritime' and'maritime sector' in previous presentations, as well as during questions and answers. What's a maritime cluster? At the most general level, the cluster can be defined as a set of companies with closer internal links than its links to the external environment. As a result, the Estonian maritime cluster is a network of maritime companies that connects maritime companies and institutions operating in Estonia. The Estonian maritime cluster is divided into sub-clusters: shipping, port work, maritime service and mediation, shipbuilding and repair, public sector, science and education, recreational shipping and recreation, construction and maintenance of waterways and water facilities, as well as fishing and processing, and aquaculture. Interestingly, if we sum up the figures of companies belonging to the maritime cluster and compare this result with the indicators that characterise our economy as a whole, we can see that this part of the economy directly accounts for about 5% of the total turnover of Estonian companies, a little less than 4% of employment and a little less than 4% of tax receipts. It is important to mention that these are data for 2010. But for a cluster, besides the question of what this cluster is, there's always a question of what it could be like. At the same time, most believe that it is extremely difficult to create a well-functioning cluster with public sector efforts alone. Rather, it is possible to contribute in one way or another to the development and development of this cluster. What is the maritime sector? In particular, the maritime sector should be understood as a set of companies and institutions whose activities are directly related to maritime affairs. It can be said that the maritime sector is divided into shipbuilding, ship repair, shipping, towing, bunkering, manning, ports, stevedoring, agency, forwarding and maritime logistics. Research into the economic impact of the maritime cluster has been carried out in a number of but certainly not enough. I will bring some results and suggestions. According to recent surveys (2016 data), maritime-related companies account for 3.7-4% of GDP, with a higher share in 2010. This is actually comparable to agriculture with an added value of 3.6% in 2014. Just as in European maritime clusters, where the sub-clusters of shipping and ports are considered to be more influential, shipping contributes the most to GDP from the Estonian maritime cluster with almost 1.4% and ports with almost 1.2%. The biggest share of shipping is definitely Tallink Group and the ports of AS, the Port of Tallinn and transit flows companies, such as Vopak E.O.S., Vesta Terminal Tallinn OÜ etc. The results of the surveys and the proposals or recommendations have shown that the share of the blue economy could be higher. I bring here some suggestions that have been through several studies. Firstly, today's proposal to create an internationally competitive operating environment for the shipping sector with the aim of facilitating the return of ships to the Estonian flag. I stress that it is intended to bring under the flag of Estonia the ships of international commercial shipping, because there are ships under the Estonian flag, there are 270 of them, they are ships of different sizes, but none of them are cargo ships. The shipping sector is an area in which the international market operates and the most profitable regions are selected to operate in terms of both geographical location and flag State. At the same time, shipping is strongly linked to the business of the land-based maritime sector. This is illustrated by the results of earlier studies, which claim, as was said here today earlier, that one job at sea creates three to six jobs on land. In monetary terms, every million euros earned in shipping will generate an additional 1.6 million euros in other sectors of the economy. This is the result of an international Oxford Economics survey. It is therefore important to continue to take measures to improve the competitiveness of shipping initiated at national level, with the aim of finding a compromise solution or solutions for both the state and ship-owners, because the current option, as we know, has not justified itself as it does not provide Estonia with direct or indirect additional tax revenue. By bringing ships under the Estonian flag, it is reasonable to increase the state's income on several levels. First of all, the register of ships adds income from shipping companies operating in Estonia and so on. Further, the growth of shipping companies in Estonia increases the demand for maritime specialists, some of which are covered by local labour force, some by foreign specialists. In addition, model calculations carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications a few years ago show that if we were able to bring 250 cargo ships here, for example, in a 20-year perspective, the country's tax revenues would increase by EUR 245 million. This actually means an increase of 1.1% in GDP. One medium-sized cargo ship flying the flag of Estonia would bring in 20000 euros a year for registration fees and for issuing certificates and other activities. In addition, the creation of foreign shipping companies in Estonia, the favourable business environment of Estonia, modern ICT solutions or other such development and marketing should of course be invested and supported. The Maritime Administration has already taken action in this direction. The structure of the Estonian ship registers, which was discussed earlier, should also be reorganized. Studies recommend doing so according to the best experience of the European Union, bringing together all Estonian ship registers, for example, within the administration of the Maritime Administration. It is important to mention that the complex realisation of these proposals does not lead to budgetary costs for the Estonian state and there is no risk of job losses in the sector compared to today, but their non-implementation deprives Estonia of the possibility of earning income and creating new jobs. In order to realise the potential of ports, we all know that the transit flows have shrunk and are shrinking ahead, it is proposed to develop a national strategy for increasing the competitiveness of transit corridors passing through Estonia. Why is that important? This is important because the sub-cluster of ports and shipping, as I mentioned earlier, forms the backbone of the flow of maritime trade flows. Currently, 60% of the goods transported in Estonia are tied to the sea in one way or another. Finding solutions for the collection of maritime statistics and defining companies on a classification basis may at first seem not to be a very big problem. But in all the studies that have been carried out, at one point or another, we have come to the point that companies, whether they are companies in the maritime cluster or sector, do not define themselves as maritime enterprises. Let me give you just one example here. Tallink, the largest shipping company in Estonia, has defined itself as a company involved in freight and passenger transport once in the last four years, mostly defined itself as a restaurant and accommodation company. Studies to date have been carried out in such a way that companies have been run by these real activities and all data have been manually "manually processed," which is not normal. Strengthening cooperation between research and education institutions, businesses and the public sector is also essential for the successful functioning of the sector. The main message of recent international maritime conferences has developed into innovation, digitisation, the development of engineering, etc., in order to maintain the competitiveness and sustainability of the maritime sector. The concept of automated and self-driving vessels has recently emerged strongly. Believe me, sooner or later they're coming. Many countries and businesses are working to bring their solution to the market first. For example, we have had many comparisons with our northern neighbours, Finns, in cooperation with the largest shipping companies there, started developing self-driving ships with a view to deploying them in the Baltic Sea as early as 2025. As this is a future trend, Estonia should not be left behind in terms of linking the ICT sector to shipping and preparing the maritime workforce with IT knowledge. Now recommendations for further research. Based on the review of the maritime cluster, it can be concluded that there has been quite a limited survey of the maritime cluster in Estonia as a whole compared to other maritime countries. Therefore, further studies should focus more specifically on the activities of the sub-clusters, their interrelationships with the sub-clusters, and a more in-depth investigation of the indirect effects of the sub-clusters. For example, how much does the change in trade flows affect in the number of employees or sales revenue sector? The decline in port turnover is directly related to economic indicators. What are the effects of technological developments on the sector? But why not, what links do maritime affairs have to other areas, such as ICT, or how can these different areas and their clusters work together to benefit both? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U91	Good waitress, thank you! You have a lot of questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Leiger! At the beginning of today's session, I referred to the slowing down of economic growth in relation to another topic, which is a major problem in Estonia. The lack of maritime development seems to be an additional brake here. I'm referring to the final part of your report. You tell us how shipping-maritime could have a positive impact on or boost other sectors of the economy and sectors. What should be done in Estonia and perhaps you have interesting examples from other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U93	Thank you. I did try to say in my opening remarks that I'm going to limit my report to a report on the results of my research. But if you want to know my personal position, I'll say I've been dealing with this matter a few years ago. Looking at the situation that existed at the time, six or seven years ago, and at the situation that is today, I dare say that there has been an important development and we can feel quite safe about it. Cooperation with neighbouring countries is also quite good in preventing pollution, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U94	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U95	Good manager! Good waitress! Estonia is a seaside country with no cargo ships under its flag. I heard you say that Tallink, whose ships are constantly screening between Helsinki and Stockholm, says he is not really a shipping company, but rather a restaurant and accommodation company. What's with the definition of tactical trickery?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U96	Thank you. Yeah, I made that example out. However, I stress that I believe that Estonia is a maritime state. But in answer to your question, I'll say it's a problem. This is a question for both the Statistical Office and the operators of the maritime cluster. I do not know the solutions and can not tell you whether it is too difficult to identify itself in Statistics Estonia as a maritime enterprise or whether it is more a question for businesses. I've been talking to some company executives about this, but, frankly, I haven't gotten one answer. I think this is a subject that should be examined in detail. By the way, this is not just a problem for Estonia; it is also a problem for other countries. If, in particular, such cluster, sector and economic impact studies have been carried out, their summaries have always been run through, that there is a similar bottleneck that these companies do not identify themselves as a business linked to this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U97	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. We asked the two previous rapporteurs what they thought the Estonian state should do first in order for the maritime sector to be more in the picture and its importance to grow. My question is what you think would be the most important and the very first step that should be taken to restore and strengthen our status as a maritime state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U99	Thank you. I must say again that this is my personal position. Those suggestions that came out of the studies, I referred. But I think it is very important to create an internationally competitive operating environment for the shipping sector and still try to encourage the return of ships under the Estonian flag. From there, it is worth thinking about how much one job at sea creates jobs on land or how much it creates added value in maritime-related sectors.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U100	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Leiger, thank you so much for coming here today and sharing your thoughts and experiences with us! My colleague, Helmen Kütt, asked about the number of young people coming to the sea academy and the competition there. My question, however, is that when these young people graduate from this school, do they have enough work and, on average, how much of them go to professional work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U102	Thank you. Very interesting question, relatively good answer too. A few weeks ago, we completed a survey of the graduates of Estonian marine educational institutions, and there were very interesting facts. First of all, when we talk about all crew members, we can say that 88% of graduates take up a professional job. Perhaps it is also interesting that the top of your specialty, be it the position of a ship's captain or chief engineer, is reached on average in 10 or 11 years. Last year we completed a study on the labour needs of the maritime sector commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which examined the labour needs of Estonian companies. It made it very clear that there was a need and that it was, in part, much greater. If you bring in the international dimension that certainly exists in the maritime sector, the European Union's research suggests that the need for qualified maritime professionals is much higher than the number of specialists who can be trained.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U103	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U104	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you very much for your very thorough answers and a more thorough presentation. I have a question about further training. For years, it has been debated whether the marine academy, which is now part of the technical university, is in a monopolistic state of further training, whether or not it has the greatest competence in this field. What is your view on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U105	Thank you. Estonia has ratified a number of maritime conventions and committed itself to complying with these rules. Marine education, along with further training, is also highly regulated internationally. This provides a very important quality guarantee. The maritime education provided in Estonia is recognised in 180 countries of the world. Figuratively speaking, a graduate of the academy can go to any of the 180 countries with his graduation diploma or, in fact, a work diploma, that diploma will be recognised there and he can start working there. To the question of whether or not continuing education should be in a monopoly position, I will reply in such a way that all of this activity is certified in Estonia by the Maritime Administration, which grants licenses for the organisation of courses and training courses. Those who are able to meet these conditions have the opportunity to participate in the training market if they so wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U106	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U107	However, in March, when the minister came to answer our questions, he had no answers. There was a talk that we were looking at, we are looking at, there is an action plan, there is a working group, we have a development plan that we are working on. Hence the criticism of the largest division of government. The current development plan was drawn up in 2011 for a period of ten years and is now ending in 2016. We are about to discuss the state budget for next year, 2017. But we are now talking about the stage in which we are just starting to analyse whether we should copy the tax system in neighbouring countries to bring our cargo ships back here, or whether we should find a third way and think of something smarter. I am very skeptical because I think that if all other countries have found a functioning system, then Estonia should not be the inventor of a bicycle. What works in most countries also works for us. But if the analysis confirms it, it's fine, if it shows something else, we'll do it differently. However, this analysis should not be completed just two or three years before the end of the period of validity of the development plan. Maybe again, we're talking about responsibility, who's responsible. I think this is the biggest problem for our country and society as a whole, that if something goes wrong or someone doesn't do anything, someone else will always be responsible. No one dares say straight out that yes, it was our mistake, it was our mistake, we try to fix it and we'll do better in the future. If something goes very well, then there are self-confidences everywhere that this is our favor, this is our job, and thanks to us it was done. Unfortunately, there is no other way around. My point is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which is managed by the Reform Party, is responsible for this area by the Prime Minister, who is also a member of the Reform Party, but if the Prime Minister is also the chairman of the Government Party and is not able to lead his political party, how can he manage the country? I think we should turn our eyes to our government, see how it works, and then we can start solving substantive issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U108	There are no further requests to speak. Thank you, Vice Admiral Tarmo Thunder! Thank you, director of the marine academy, Roomet Leiger. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U109	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and honourable guests. First of all, I would like to thank Artur Talvik and the Free Party for raising this important national issue. I think it's very, very important. I am glad that this debate has fallen on the right day too. I would also like to congratulate all interest groups in a good way, because maritime affairs is precisely the kind of area where interest groups monitor very precisely what the state and government are doing. That's very nice. The Estonian state has 3794 kilometres of sea border; much has been said about this today. It's nearly six times more than the land border. It is self-evident that a country bordering the sea should have maritime interests. Apart from environmental concerns, these interests are usually primarily economic. Like many other countries, Estonia has marine economic interests reflected in the Maritime Policy Development Plan, which we are entitled 'Estonia's Maritime Policy 2012 to 2020'. Overall, the maritime policy of developed countries has focused mainly on shipping interests, while developing countries rely on the need to export raw materials. In addition, there are small countries that focus on the maintenance of ship registers and receive a significant share of their country's GDP, be it the Marshall Islands, the Bahamas, Panama or Liberia, for example. In order for the national maritime policy to work in practice, however, it must be understood that shipping as an industry is special. The working day does not end there at 5:00, but it can last weeks or even months, the labour market is international, the radius of activity is global and competition is global. All of this requires the understanding and readiness of a country wishing to fly its flag to design a different legal and tax environment for shipping. Voltaire has said that people are arguing, but nature is acting. For a long time there has been a dispute between different ministries and representatives of different political views about whether and what tax exemptions should be imposed on merchant ships. Unfortunately, there are no cargo ships sailing on international waters under the flag of Estonia today. So we have nothing more to lose, but only to win. In economic policy, the principle is that if you want to make money, you have to spend money first. By transposing this into maritime policy, one might say that if the state wants to earn later from the merchant ships that are flying the flag of Estonia, it must be prepared to spend at first, make exceptions, both for the levying of labour taxes and for the levying of registration fees, and take into account the initial additional costs. It's only later that you can make a profit. Estonia is strong in maritime affairs, in three main respects. Firstly, we have competitive passenger shipping. Secondly, we have the capability and competence of ship repair and construction. Thirdly, we have a large number of qualified sailors, estimated at 3000 to 5000. We are active in terms of the ratio between sailors and residents, other than Luxembourg, in Europe: for 1,000 people we have seven sailors. It would be logical and reasonable to take advantage of our advantages and to put them at the service of the country's economic success. Do I get extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U110	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U111	However, if you look at what has been like since the restoration of Estonian maritime policy until now, you cannot see the focused action in this direction. Rather, there is long-standing neutrality and indecision, which speaks of the low priority of the maritime economy in the eyes of the country, which in turn has created a lack of competence in ministries. That's what Mr. Thunder said, and unfortunately, it's true. 'What is it, it is,' says the Dalai Lama. There is no point in accusing other countries of luring our cargo ships into their registers. That's just the way it is. Yes, we are under way in this competition with our inaction and indecisiveness, and now we have to admit defeat and move on. Under international law, the laws of the State of registry apply to ships regardless of whether and how often the ships in question visit the State of registry and the nationality of the ship's captain. However, in accordance with international law, there must be a genuine link between the flag State and vessels registered in its register, as reflected in the conditions laid down by the State to which the vessel or vessel owner must comply. Should the Estonian state do something and what could it do to lure the cargo ships back into its register? The question 'Is it? ' answer that I certainly should. However, Estonia should not copy the others here. I believe that we need a different, more modern and ultimately more attractive approach, which could later serve as a model for others. Our system of registration fees could be smart and flexible so that it applies the principles of ship taxation to leverage other segments of the maritime economy. This could be aimed at achieving a higher level of revenue for the State than would merely allow for registration fees and taxes. In Estonia, the ship register and the ships registered there could serve primarily the interests of the local ship repair and construction, as this area has already developed historically and, moreover, there are a considerable number of people employed in this sector and, due to high value added products, there are also high wages compared to the Estonian average. In view of the above, the principles of working in the Estonian ship register could be structured in such a way that the more the ship owner contributes to the Estonian economy, the more discount he receives from the registration fees. The discount is granted, for example, if the ship has been built in Estonia after the hull has been completed, the equipment and mechanisms used during the construction work are a significant part of the original production in Estonia, the maintenance, repair, conversion and other works of this kind have been performed in Estonia, etc. This discount could gradually increase to 100% of the base registration fee. Although the competitiveness of the national maritime policy depends on the interaction of several factors and the organisation of ship registers is only one part of it, it is an important part that needs to be addressed. In addition to introducing the necessary exemptions from labour taxes to remain competitive and establishing a system of guaranteeing publicly guaranteed loans for shipbuilding, we can finally recognise that we have done everything to ensure that the preconditions of the Estonian maritime economy can be fully realised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U112	On behalf of the Group of the Urve Tiidus Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, guests! It has been four years since the document 'Estonia's Maritime Policy 2012 to 2020' was discussed in this Chamber. A very important document that describes where we were at that point in time, but the most important part of it is the objectives that we are pursuing by 2020. As we have heard in this Chamber today, it was already and is still on the agenda to bring cargo ships under the flag of Estonia, which, very simply, means making similar, perhaps even bigger, tax reliefs than are currently in so-called flags of convenience, whose registers are also registered by merchant ships with links to Estonia. So I ask: what are the possibilities for Estonia to introduce tax exemptions only for seafarers and merchant ships? It's been an object of analysis for some time. This time has also been criticised on several occasions, for example, at the international maritime conference held in Tallinn every year, it has been one of the most important topics. I therefore consider it necessary to say today that, as far as I know, the interministerial working group has analysed the practice of leading maritime states, the tax systems and the social guarantees granted to seafarers. Informally, I would stress that, in the near future, this working group will summarise the results of the analyses, if it has not already done so, and present concrete proposals to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This is very important because it is necessary to fix the position as to whether it is appropriate for Estonia to go down the path previously chosen by some countries and introduce tax exemptions, or it is better to say clearly that, for some year, for example until 2020 or some other year, we are not going to do so for any clear reason. I very much hope that this analysis will also identify the real interest of cargo ship owners in exchanging flag countries and coming back to the Estonian register. I would stress that I do not share this view, as if something good was good and the state had been lost irreversibly. I do not think so. That is why I am quoting here a week ago the presentation by Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, on the same subject: '2014. An analysis of the working group set up by the Ministry of Economic Affairs was prepared in September 2009 to improve the competitiveness of the Estonian maritime sector. The problem was that the current situation did not motivate sufficient shipowners to choose Estonia as their flag country. Shipowners shall be able to use the services of registers which charge the remuneration of crew members at zero rates. Social aspects must also be taken into account when making changes, such as the wish of Estonian seafarers to receive pensions and other social benefits in their old age. The aim, however, is not to allow the sector to pay less taxes than other sectors, but to earn more income for Estonia with a more competitive tax environment. Changes in the tax environment would not reduce the revenue base of the state, as today, due to the lack of cargo ships, they do not receive labour taxes on the state. In the longer term, the shore sector serving ships would also increase, generating additional business opportunities and benefits from business. ' I think it gives me hope. Mr President, may I have a few more minutes? Just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U114	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U115	My colleague, Artur Talvik, who initiated the debate on a key national issue on maritime affairs, highlighted our lack of digital success in the maritime sector. Again, online administration and the use of e-services are already in practice. For example, there is an electronic information system called EMDE, which was introduced in the summer of 2013 and allows data on the arrival and departure of ships to be provided digitally. Experience so far has shown that the introduction of the system has significantly reduced the administrative burden on shipowners and their representatives and increased the speed of data transmission. Estonia, of course, also wants to implement digital solutions in a wider Europe, but full digitisation of maritime affairs means cooperation with the European Commission and the Member States. Estonia has made the promotion and use of digital transport solutions one of the priorities of its Presidency of the European Union. There is a high likelihood that it could become a competitive advantage in the maritime sector. With regard to e-residency, I would also like to say that this will become a competitive advantage. But now I speak as an older person who has seen different times in Estonia. Consider for a moment the last quarter century of Estonia, which has regained independence. How many small ship ports have been built and restored and how well our ferry ports are, how many small ships and boats have been formed in the summer ports! Of course, the picture remains modest compared to Finland, but capital is slowly accumulated. Surely a boat or a yacht in a family budget is not a priority. It must also be accepted that the role of fishing in employment has been reduced, just as the role of agriculture has been reduced. But the fastest growing resource in the world is leisure time, and the existence of the sea and the traditions of living with the sea are not lost. On the contrary, many traditions have been restored. All those who have maintained coastal culture and fishing traditions and who have actually stood for the promotion of maritime affairs deserve recognition. A lot of them are sitting on the balconies right now. After all, I am an islander from Saaremaa and also from my roots, and I have been very closely associated with life by the sea. Speaking of Saaremaa, I can say that in Estonia, shipbuilding, indeed, has been restored to a large extent. There are many such companies. For example, in Saaremaa, work vessels are built in Nasval, which are used by several authorities both in Estonia and outside Estonia. The number of boat construction companies has increased. One of the most important things that cannot be left unchecked when it comes to maritime affairs is that coastal life and fishing really are important elements of maritime affairs. Very much depends on the future of the Baltic Sea, whether this environment can be restored through international regulations, so that fish stocks can also recover and one day we can say that in Saaremaa we can catch boar again and the eel comes back here and does not fall victim to alien species, etc. In fact, thank you very much to the initiator! I think this is a subject worth talking about, but the most important thing is this positive wish that the register of cargo ships would lure these ships back here. Although there are many loose ends here, I look forward to the results of the work of this working group, so that the decision will finally come to pass. Criticism is a great thing, it takes life forward, but looking for positive solutions does it even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U116	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U117	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! I also want to end with a positive message, but above all, with a message that perhaps we should take action from the time we speak and analyse. On the map, we've set our journey several times, and now the ships could set sail and sail the sea. I very much hope that this small step that we have taken today is part of a major step, i.e. a general change in mentality by making maritime affairs a priority in Estonia as a very important area. But once again, thank you to everyone who participated in the debate! Thank you to the waitresses and thank you to the guests who have come to listen to the debate on this balcony. One small technical announcement: a follow-up debate will take place at the Riigikogu cafe, you are all welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, who are interested in maritime affairs, may also come to discuss matters with seafarers. Once again, thank you and the strength to promote maritime affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U118	Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U119	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! To begin with, I would like to thank the Free Party Group and Artur Talvik for their initiative to raise an important national issue concerning the maritime sector and the future of Estonia as a maritime state. This is a very grateful proposal and I am very pleased that this issue has reached this big hall. I also thank Vice Admiral Tarmo Kõuts and the Director of the Estonian Maritime Academy of TTÜ Roomet Leiger for their very good presentations, who also responded very meaningfully and made very good proposals. I listened to the views of the representatives of the other political groups and their speeches on behalf of my political parties. I think that special praise must be given to the Social Democratic Party, whose representative very sincerely pointed out all these problems that are unresolved, and came up with very good ideas. I also have a counter-proposal. I hope that, given your position as a coalition party, these proposals will arrive at the government table as a matter of urgency and we will not have to wait until 2020, when the current development plan expires, but these problems remain unresolved. So the initiative is very good, but if it were to reach a substantive debate among your coalition partners, it would be even more gratifying. It would be particularly good if solutions were found. Of course, there are many criticisms, but there are also positive ones. Yes, we have very good fisheries operators who are working despite the fact that they are trying to squeeze the directives of the European Union. It was only four to five months ago that we had a directive on the table in the Commission that tried to restrict the activities of these companies and to prescribe where and who could deal with it at all. Nevertheless, entrepreneurs are very persistent and good. We also have activists, even perhaps in a good way, insane activists, who are trying to restore the image of Estonia as a maritime state. The state of the sea does not just mean that we have 3,800 kilometres of sea border. In this way, we could consider a maritime state to be any country with any kind of connection to the sea. The sea state is a vision. What does that mean? We have working companies, we have fisheries companies, we have coastal people who are all doing their job with heart and love, but who are also getting a fair reward for it and are able to manage themselves with it. We have merchants and industrial companies who have the motivation to contribute to the Estonian state and Estonian tax system. I would like to point out that, including on 8 February, I, too, tabled an inquiry on behalf of our group to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, which had almost the same questions as those on this table today. We also pointed out that in February 2014, the last two cargo ships left the Estonian register because our tax environment was not acceptable to them. We compare our situation with the situation in Latvia, where the minimum point was two ships, then we started to act quickly to improve the situation. To date, our southern neighbours, whom we are otherwise trying to promote in every aspect, have either faster economic growth, less alcohol consumption, although artificially, but still, either with the number of islands or with some third tool, 21 cargo ships, we have zero. The studies that Mr Leiger pointed out, which had been commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, were also very relevant, and which had been prepared by a working group, according to which if we were able to recover 250 cargo ships from the register, it would be estimated at EUR 245 million in additional revenue to our budget. For each ship, we would receive a registration and certificate fee of approximately EUR 25000. We have now just lost 6000-8000 sailors, they work on ships flying the flag of another country and they pay all their taxes to these countries. It's a very big problem. Finns have over 100 cargo ships. In 2003, we had 38 cargo ships, but within ten years, there was a crash. I'm asking for a few more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U120	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U121	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U122	Hello, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! By the way, waste is also a very important issue in maritime affairs and must still be sorted. This is also the subject of the next draft. So why don't you stay and listen? The draft law amending the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act is then what I will introduce. You have received a draft law amending the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act prepared at the Ministry of the Environment. The draft amends the regulation governing support for the development of waste management in municipalities. So far, the development of waste management has been supported by the pollution charge for the release of municipal waste into the environment. As less than 7% of the generated mixed municipal waste is deposited in Estonia today, the collection of pollution charges for municipalities has also decreased considerably and will decrease further. The law amending the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act provides the local government with a grant from the state budget to cover part of the costs of developing waste management in accordance with the State Budget Act. To this end, the government has foreseen EUR 2.2 million in the state budget for next year. The pollution charge for municipal waste will be collected in full in the state budget. Support shall be granted on the basis of the number of address objects located in the local government unit registered in the Address Data System Information System at the beginning of the year. Support shall be granted on the basis of the number of address objects that are dwellings or, according to the building register, buildings intended for the purpose of the dwelling, such as cottages. The amount of the grant per address object shall be determined each year in the state budget. In 2017, it would be EUR 2,9 per address object. Support is targeted, i.e. it can only be used to develop waste management. The development of waste management is advice on waste, dissemination of waste information, monitoring and waste management activities that raise the level of waste management. For example, this support can keep the waste plant open for longer and pay the costs of managing the waste collected from the population at the waste plant so that the population can give away the waste collected by type, free of charge or at a low cost. In short, the support can cover the administrative and operational costs of the waste plant, including labour costs. In 2017, all municipalities will receive support, but from 2018 the municipality will have to fulfil four conditions to receive support. A waste plant must work on the territory of a local government or the public must be guaranteed the use of the waste plant service in another municipality, a waste shipment must be carried out in the municipality's administrative territory, a valid waste management plan and a waste management code must be in place and a register of waste holders must be established. As a result of the change in the administrative-territorial organisation of municipalities and cities, the local government unit formed in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Reform Act will be subject to the conditions for granting the aid listed above as from 2019. Compliance with the conditions is verified by the Environmental Board. We have set a target that, from 2020, at least 50% of the total mass of municipal waste collected by species will have to be recycled in the calendar year. In 2014, the target for the recycling of municipal waste was 32%, so we have plenty of room for growth. The overall increase in the collection and recycling of waste by type should be more than twice the annual average of the last 10 years. The actual level of collection of waste by type depends very heavily on the activities of the municipality. Therefore, in order to achieve the target, the municipality needs to find the means to develop waste management in order to significantly improve waste sorting and separate collection, which in turn will increase the recycling of municipal waste. In concluding, I note that the implementation of the law has a positive impact on the environment, because the collection of waste by type makes it possible to promote the recycling of waste and thus to move towards a recycling society, which is the most important objective of modern waste management. Thank you for your attention. But just two more marginal notes. One thing is that the adoption of the draft as a law will be beneficial if it takes place before the state budget is processed, because it will then be possible to foresee the corresponding amounts in the state budget. The second remark relates to the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. As we know, the decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu does not use digital sample cases when dealing with drafts. But I invite you to go to the website of the Ministry of the Environment either to the waste section or to the Facebook page of the Ministry of the Environment or to my Facebook page, where there is a link to an interactive map of Estonia, where you can understand what could be in your municipality of residence, such as Esna or somewhere else (in fact there is Kareda Parish) in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U123	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! There must be about 80 waste plants in Estonia. I don't know how many they really need and what is now being built with public money. As I understand it, about EUR 4 per household comes with more money for the municipality if it fulfils the conditions. Does this EUR 4 per household then go to other costs, not to build waste plants, but rather to keep them open and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U125	Thanks! I must disappoint you that this EUR 4 will be EUR 2.9 in 2017, because if EUR 2.2 million is shared between more than 700000 addresses, it will give out about this amount. It is not necessary to exclude the contribution of the waste plant, but I think it would simply be useful to develop those services that already exist, but which are squeamish. There was also a discussion in the government office about how many municipalities could exist in Estonia from the new year at all. This number tends to come to 70, but we live, we see, lawsuit, etc. This means that if this happens geographically, then at least every municipality will have a waste plant. The question is, is that enough? But yes, in a simplified way, the aim could be to get more municipal waste in the form of sorted material; it would not be necessary to send it directly towards the furnace and energy recovery. So we could use the money to build it, but it's so volatile and small by local governments that it doesn't do a great deal of wonder. In Piirissaare rural municipality, this amount is almost nonexistent, in cities the size of Tartu and Tallinn, it might even be possible to build for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U126	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U127	Honourable Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. As former head of local government, I must acknowledge to the initiators and minister that such a draft has come up at all. In recent years, the cost of waste management of local government units has increased steadily. However, it makes me think of one point that reads: 'In accordance with the possibilities of the state budget, support is given to local authorities... ' Is the EUR 4 per address object indicated in the explanatory memorandum a minimum rate, or can it also fluctuate? Can it go down if, for example, there is no money in the state budget, or can it only increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U128	Thanks! I think that when it comes to some divergence between real life and the explanatory memorandum, it is because every decision is made in its own time. We just have today to know how many address objects and so on and that by 2017 we will have 2.2 million. I suppose we can keep that level. But there are no conditions for this amount to only increase or for it to not decrease at all. This is the starting point from which we were able to launch. We hope that, at least, there will be just as much money in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U129	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Inspired by today's previous subject and your introduction, I'm going to ask you a little theoretical question. To what extent does the bill affect the situation where quite a lot of waste and waste are transferred from the sea to Estonian beaches? Is this bill somehow helping the Beachers to clean up this garbage more effectively or would they rather?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U131	A simple answer could be yes, although this relationship can be very indirect. But if there are such tragic beachmen who have decided that they will pick up the garbage from their beach, then this garbage can, of course, take it to the waste plant. A completely separate subject, in fact, I misled the sailors a little bit, wanting to get them to think about society's problems more broadly, saying that if we think about maritime affairs, then they also have to think about the waste that has to do with ships. There are definitely more activities planned here, especially in the leadership of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U132	Thank you, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. The rapporteur for the Environment Committee is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U133	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Cute guests! The draft law amending the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act was discussed in two sessions by the Committee on the Environment. In addition to what the Minister has already said as the initiator of the draft, I will also try to give a brief overview of the key points raised in the Commission. The meetings of the Commission took place twice: first on 12 September and then on 19 September, i.e. a week apart. The most important issues that were asked about were analogous to what Mr Dmitriev, for example, asked the Minister just a little while ago in this Chamber. If we look at this draft, we will see that from 2018 there are four requirements: a waste plant must work on the territory of a local government or the possibility for residents to use a waste plant service must be guaranteed, waste transport must be organised within the meaning of the law on waste shipment, a waste management plan and a waste management code must be in place and a register of waste holders must also be in place. As a result, the Commission also raised the question that, when we talk about EUR 2.2 million, whether this amount could be increased or reduced in the future, it is part of a formula or is part of an agreement. Indeed, the answer is the same as the Environment Minister Marko Pomerants said here that 2.2 million is the starting point from which it follows that there will be some EUR 2.9 per geographical address object. But if we do a good job in this Chamber in the coming years, it could be 6 or 8 million. If we do a bad job, I will not rule out that it could also be 1 euro. This depends on how we work in this Chamber, because the state budget is finally put together by the Riigikogu. If you look at these figures, you can see that, of course, the two largest municipalities are the biggest beneficiaries of the aid. These are Tallinn and Tartu; according to the current plans, Tallinn will receive EUR 640000 and Tartu will receive EUR 150000. As a result, representatives of Tallinn were invited to the second committee meeting and asked exactly what would change or what Tallinn would do with this possible support and whether it had already been included in the city budget. Relo Ligi, Head of Tallinn Environment Board, replied that they had taken this amount into account in the budget negotiations. According to him, this money is intended to build two new waste plants in Tallinn, for example, and to man them, in addition to being intended to contribute to supervision and employ new supervisors. The third important issue raised in relation to Tallinn was that if there is a requirement that waste transport must be organised on the territory of the municipality within the meaning of subsections 66 and 69 of the Act, then the large municipalities are obviously once again in a different position. For example, there are 13 waste transport areas in Tallinn, while in smaller municipalities there is only one area. The question was very simple: if, for example, in one region of Tallinn, the transport of 13 municipal waste would not be organised, would Tallinn not qualify and lose money? Indeed, at the moment, the draft is that if one of the four requirements mentioned earlier, which is required by the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act, is not complied with, the municipality will not meet the conditions. Here we are waiting for proposals and sensible solutions by 11 October. This date was decided by the Commission to set the deadline for tabling amendments so that we could review this issue again. In any case, Tallinn has promised to make its proposals. When these proposals come, we will discuss them and find a reasonable solution so that there is no such situation where the dispute in one waste shipment area would be detrimental to the rest of the capital. It was a general idea in the Commission that we did not consider it reasonable. Of course, we also made procedural decisions in a consensual manner, as this is a unique draft in that it has been unanimously supported not only by the Committee on the Environment, but also by the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments. There are often no drafts that can be said from this panel that these two umbrella organisations have also given the draft a green light and a completely positive assessment. So the Committee on the Environment was pleased to support this draft unanimously. We made procedural decisions to put the draft on the agenda today, 29 September, which is a lost Thursday, and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set, as I have already mentioned, at 4 a.m. on 11 October 2016. These decisions were all taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U134	Questions for the waitress. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, In some ways, you have already taken the words out of my mouth, saying that the umbrella organisations, the association of rural governments and the union of cities, which represent local authorities, support this draft. Am I right to understand that local authorities are really satisfied with what will come, based on the opinion of their umbrella organisations? Or are there places in Estonia where this bill may not satisfy all expectations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U136	Thank you. Certainly, local governments always have a desire to get as much money as possible for the development of waste management. But I dare say that EUR 2.2 million is a very good starting point because, according to the previous formula, when the municipal budget received money from municipal waste storage fees, this amount was only EUR 63000 for all municipalities last year, and if we look back another year, it was EUR 243000. Perhaps this amount, 2.2 million, is certainly a very important and fundamental change in Estonian waste management and Estonian waste policy, so to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U137	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The question is more to the minister, but I'm asking you. Once again, I recognise that this idea has been addressed and that the state also partially compensates for the costs. But can this support be calculated in addition to the number of address objects later on, what is the territory of the local government unit? The density of the location of objects also plays a major role here. The organisation of waste collection circles has much higher costs for municipalities that are smaller and less prosperous. Step is right, but maybe we could take a look at the bases for sharing this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U139	Thank you. I will be happy to answer for the Minister, I will talk about the feeling that the Committee on the Environment has had. We agree with you because this question has been raised several times. Will these four requirements, which are general, still contribute specifically to the achievement of our objective, are we going to get a result for each euro that has been allocated? Let's look at the statistics. In the capital, which receives the largest injection of funds, waste management and recovery are best organised, with a percentage of more than 50. At the same time, it should be added that even the largest amount of waste is generated in the capital. This is the kind of question that has several answers and several aspects. However, this distribution of proportions, which is currently purely address-based, could certainly be more complex and could indeed take into account that it is logistically more difficult to do in rural areas, because it is purely economically more costly in a distributed settlement. You could take that into account in this formula. But once again, I think this is a reasonable starting point. If there are any good ideas on how to make this draft even better, I call on them to come forward until 11 October. But now there has been a reverse principle: not to write any unnecessary claims from point to point in this draft. Once this money has been transferred to the municipal budget, it could still remain up to them to decide how they use it. We try too often to report here from the Riigikogu hall to the local government, for which money can be used and for which it is not. We trust the municipalities once we give them that money! It's been a draft kind of red line.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U140	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U141	Good manager! Good waitress! At present, 32% of municipal waste goes to waste plants and this percentage increases by 1 to 1.5% each year, but the European Union demands that the increase be more than twice as fast. Will the injection that you are now doing to the local authorities' buttocks with this money bring us closer to fulfilling the European Union's requirement? Any tests on that? Tell me a little bit more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U142	Thank you. That's a good question. This too was discussed in the Committee on the Environment. Indeed, not only the European Union, but also the Coalition Agreement provides that we will be recycling 50% of municipal waste by 2020. By the way, in terms of information, it can be said that the European Union is likely to raise this required level further to 60% or 65% by 2030, so that work needs to be done continuously. Clearly, for the last five years, our steps have been too small. It is also certain that stagnation is not an improvement. Ultimately, it is not about the municipality, but about how the municipality can do this in cooperation with its people and how every person in Estonia will understand the need for this activity. Indeed, it is reasonable to recycle municipal waste. One reason that municipalities have pointed out, why this cannot be done, even though they have good ideas and ideas, has unfortunately so far been that there has not been enough finance. I don't want to say in such a simple way that money turns the wheels on, but it certainly can't be done without money. We therefore believe that this could be an important change and that the rooster steps we have taken each year could be replaced by not perhaps seven leagues of steps, but by one decent triple jumper step.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U143	Thank you, Rainer Vakra! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On this item, the Minister has a say in the negotiations. Please, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U144	Just a few details. One of the issues concerning Mr Dmitriev's question is whether there must be a waste plant in each municipality. The condition is that either a waste plant or a contract with a neighbour will continue to be so in the future. But it's kind of a little detail. In Estonian politics, it is certainly the case that every time the keyword "Tallinn" comes into play, it gets complicated because Tallinn equals Savisaar. But in this particular draft, Tallinn equals one of the largest producers of municipal waste. Therefore, Tallinn's contribution is very important. I will answer Mr Ernits's last question as to whether this is now sufficient and whether any analyses have been carried out. Surely this step should contribute to the promotion of sorting, but we are not going to stop there. We, the Ministry of the Environment, are planning to amend the legislation. I'm gonna count it off the paper so I don't lose my percentage and my thinking: '... under which the price of the waste shipment service carried out must ensure that, on the basis of the volume of the same collection tank, the charge for the collection of waste collected by type is not higher than 50%, but not more than 20% of the charge for collecting mixed municipal waste for the collection of waste waste from waste paper and cardboard. ' So we're going to create this kind of separate stimulation. How simple it is, it is a matter of its own, because I think that the prices for municipal waste collection are actually very low, although there are people who say that it is pointless and that it wants competition and whatever. But this is our next step. I hope we can still push things in a reasonable direction. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-29_U145	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the Committee on the Environment is to conclude the first reading. There are no other proposals. I will set the deadline for the submission of 257 amendments at 4 p.m. on 11 October. Today's trial is over. I'll see you Monday! Closure of the sitting at 12.55 p.m.
