ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 8th working week on Thursday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts or enquiries. There are no requests for referrals or enquiries. Please, let's do the presence check! 73 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, no 28.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have three items on the agenda. The first is the second reading of the draft Act 284 on the ratification of the Treaty on the Participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Deniss Borodichi, member of the Economic Commission, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U3	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that this agreement, which is being ratified here today, lays down the conditions for a country to join the European Economic Area. The Parties are all 27 EU Member States and Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As we all know, Croatia became the 28th Member State of the European Union on 1 July 2013. The need to conclude the Enlargement Agreement follows the Treaty of Accession of Croatia to the European Union, which was signed on 9 December 2012. Pursuant to Article 128 of the EEA Agreement, any State which accedes to the European Union is to ratify an agreement to that effect. I remember the question that was raised during the previous debate as to whether Croatia itself has ratified this agreement. I say yes, it is, it was on 24 March 2015. The second question we had last time in this Chamber was about how many countries have now ratified this Treaty. The answer is 13 countries, so not all of them. Procedural decisions. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading on 7 November, including. No amendments were received by the deadline of 3 November. The Commission itself did not make any proposals. We have therefore taken the decision to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 17 November, which is today, and we have proposed that it be put to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U4	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U5	Good manager! Good waitress! Did the Commission also have a debate on the benefits for the Estonian economy? What are the pros?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U6	This is what we discussed when we had the first-reading debate, because there were questions about this at the time. Since we are already a member of the European Union, as is Croatia since 2013, nothing will change in the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U7	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good Deniss! I have a similar question. Are we simply fulfilling an international obligation by voting now and slamming under a rubber seal, or do we also have some real benefit from Croatia, which is quite far from us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U9	Again, I recall that Croatia is now a member of the European Union. We are in the same economic space, both Croatia and Estonia, hence the rights and obligations deriving from it. As I said in my report at the beginning, Article 128 of the Agreement on the European Economic Area states that any European country that becomes a member of the European Union must apply to become a Contracting Party to the Agreement. So this is a formal procedure that we're going to follow. But as I have already mentioned, in terms of content, in terms of the economy, nothing will change for Croatia or Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U10	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments to the draft have been proposed. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote of 284 and we will go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act 284 on the ratification of the Treaty on the Participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U11	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the second reading of the draft law 262 amending the obligation to leave and ban on entry initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would like to ask Mr Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U12	Good morning, colleagues. Allow me to share with you the discussion on the second reading of the draft law amending the obligation of departure and refusal of entry law. As a reminder, the draft initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs aims to supplement and clarify the legal bases for imposing an entry ban on an alien. The draft passed the first reading in the Riigikogu. a on September 28, 2004. No proposals were received by the deadline for tabling amendments. However, the Government of the Republic made its proposals, and the Commission discussed whether to present them as amendments to this Chamber. The draft government amendments were explained in the committee by Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, and by Ele Russak, Adviser to the same department. The first amendment provides that national hatred, apart from racial, religious or political hatred, is included in this draft as a basis for refusal of entry. In that case, the provision in question would be compatible with the wording of the Constitution. The Commission decided to support this amendment. The second amendment extends the scope of the prohibition of entry. In addition, the security authority's threat assessment was found to take this into account as well. The question is that the refusal of entry must, in any case, be personal. And only a recommendation is not sufficient, it must be a concrete proposal for a particular person, which shows the causal link between the person and the security threat he poses. This amendment also went to the vote and the Commission decided to present it. The third amendment concerns the basis for a refusal of entry if there is no indication of a causal link as to why Estonia should apply it to one person or another. The mere fact that another country has imposed an entry ban on a person is not an automatic basis for Estonia to apply it. In order to realise the objective set out in point 5 of the draft law, the Ministry of the Interior has proposed to supplement the basis for the application of the ban on entry, which currently speaks only of the threat to the security and public order of Estonia or to the health of other persons. According to the Ministry's proposal, this would be extended to include a person who poses a threat to the security, public order or the health of others in another European Union or NATO Member State. The principle concerns the application of regional entry bans. For example, if the Republic of Latvia has imposed an entry ban on a person, the beneficial effect of this prohibition will not come when that person comes to Estonia, because Estonia is unable to verify whether the person moves on to the Republic of Latvia or stays in Estonia near the border of Latvia and is dealing with threats to public order or the security of the country. It was also proposed to delete the word 'fitness' from the law already in force, because such a definition is included in the text of the law at the time of its drafting, but it has never been used in practice, and it is now clear that the concept goes against both European Union law and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The amendment was put to the vote and passed in favour. The fourth amendment is that the Government of the Republic can organise its work without the legislator having to say in advance that, in justified cases, the Ministry of the Interior will listen to the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of the Interior shall always involve the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in cases where this is appropriate. So far, there has never been a problem with inter-ministerial cooperation, so it is unreasonable to regulate it by law. This amendment, too, passed the vote of the Commission and was included in the draft amendments to the draft law. Last or fifth amendment. The application of the entry ban provided for in the current Act is not justified. This is not the case in practice, since the case law has long been such that all administrative acts must be motivated and decisions given very thorough and detailed reasons. It is therefore proposed by the Ministry of the Interior to provide that the application of an entry ban is justified to an extent that is not contrary to the interests of national security. The Ministry of the Interior also proposed the repeal of a provision providing that the application of an entry ban would not be justified. The Commission also voted on this amendment and decided to present it. Further procedural decisions were taken. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 17 November, i.e. today (consensus), and to propose that the second reading be closed, in favour of Laane, Sepp, Anvelt, Muuli and Luik, with the abstentions of Ott, Madison, Stalnukhin and Ernits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U13	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is said here that we can prohibit the entry of representatives of autocratic regimes. Who gives a competent document, and how is it proved that some kind of country-based regime is autocratic, dictatorial, or whatever? Will it be decided on the basis of the headlines of the newspapers or will any document be required? Who is the institution that recognises the human hatred of one regime or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U15	Thank you. In fact, I have already talked about this with Amendment 2. In fact, the defence police are drawing up threat assessments in the country, based on one decision or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U16	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The question is the justification of the refusal of entry. We also had more talk in the Commission about this: now we cannot simply come up with security considerations, but we have to justify the refusal of entry. However, it may be either sensitive personal data or serious security threats that are not reasonable to disclose. How do you think this is gonna work? Of course, it is necessary to challenge it in a court of law, but how could it be justified in a decision? Were the Ministry's explanations clear to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U18	Thank you. There must certainly be a different approach to each case here. However, this is an administrative court decision, so if the State has applied the refusal of entry and this is contested, it is theoretically possible to declare the hearing of the administrative court in camera when it is necessary to go into the fine. In fact, such opportunities exist in our judicial area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U19	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Five amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is also the position put forward by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The third amendment has been proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The fourth amendment is the position put forward by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Last but not least, the fifth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 262. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U20	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft Act 288 amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Kadri Simson, member of the Riigikogu, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws. This draft is a response to last year's initiative by the government to amend the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws, the same law that we have started to amend today. At the time, it amended seven different laws, including the Social Tax Act, and allowed the social tax rate to be reduced from 33% to 32.5% from 1 January 2017 (the social tax contribution from 13% to 12.5%). The promise was also that in 2018, the fall of half a percent would continue. The purpose of this draft is to abolish the reduction in the social tax rate in 2017 and 2018, thus maintaining the current situation where the social tax rate is 33%. If the draft becomes a law, the social tax rate will remain at 33% in the future. We believe that the best way to ensure the stability of the tax environment is by not making pointless bludgeonings with taxes. Since the majority of the Riigikogu has already found that the reduction of social tax in the current situation is not meaningful and must remain 33%, it is not worth creating additional regulations for entrepreneurs for half a year. The effects of the bill. The draft will have a positive impact on the state budget. The reduction of the social tax rate by 0.5% from 1 January 2017 and by a further 0.5% from 1 January 2018 would have reduced the collection of social tax by EUR 33.8 million in 2017 (data from previous year), by EUR 86 million in 2018 and by EUR 91 million in 2019. Let me also talk a little bit about how a reduction in the social tax rate even occurred, which now needs to be changed. Last year, the government gave the Riigikogu the same draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws. In the beginning, it was evident that the government had initiated three separate drafts: a draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws, as well as a draft law amending the VAT Act and a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. At some stage, all tax changes were merged into one cluster bill and submitted to the Riigikogu. It was dealt with in such a way that amendments were only given three days instead of the usual 10 days. Finally, there was no normal vote, but tax changes were linked to a vote of confidence by the Prime Minister. There were both the tax cuts that we are going around now and a series of tax increases in this cluster. In terms of the deterioration of the economic environment, I would certainly highlight the rise in excise duty, particularly in diesel and petrol, as well as the significant increase in VAT for accommodation establishments. In the case of this draft, leaving the social tax at 33%, it has been discussed who will be the beneficiary or the beneficiary if the same rate is maintained. I managed to get a letter from the Chancellor of Justice to the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Remo Holsmer, member of the Reform Party. In his letter, the Chancellor of Justice states that it is not easy to say who is or had to be the real beneficiary of the change when looking at the target group and objectives of social tax reduction. Social tax does not directly concern the employee, it is an employer's tax. When you think about what the employer will gain from a half-percent reduction, the average wage is rather modest. If we look at the average salary according to the latest statistical indicator, the employer will pay EUR 349.8 for one employee in the current situation, if the social tax is 33%. After a half-percent fall, the amount would be EUR 344,5. Winning per employee per month would be EUR 5.3. Thus, one large enough company with 10 employees who receive a decent average salary would win EUR 636 by the year. The Chancellor of Justice has analysed whether such a victory is comparable to a previous tax increase. It also compared this with the previous increase in VAT, which has caused a great deal of contradiction, and it was an example of the need for retail businesses to change the prices of goods in the event of a change in VAT. However, this cannot be done in a short time. The exclusion of social tax cuts does not result in a comparable administrative burden for businesses, so the adjustment period granted to the undertaking can be shorter. I am not going to tell you more about these tax increases decisions that have been adopted by the Riigikogu as they are currently not talking about tax increases, but about the fact that the social tax rate is now 33%, and this will continue to be the case next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U22	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U23	Thank you. Paragraph 41 of the Tax Administration Act states that there must normally be at least six months between the adoption and entry into force of the Tax Act, as well as its amendment. Right now, you want to raise taxes with this bill, because the fall in social tax has already been legalised. The Chancellor of Justice has pointed out that restricting legitimate expectations, in this case the removal of a tax reduction with a few weeks' notice, would require extraordinarily compelling reasons. The councillors of his department didn't find them. Why do you intend to break the tax law? I would remind you that, on the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, a six-month advance notice was agreed by consensus in the previous composition of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U24	You cite the position of the Chancellor of Justice as appropriate. This is a first reading. Before the second reading, amendments can be tabled so that the Chancellor of Justice finds everything legitimate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U25	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will continue here, and I will touch on the principle that there must be six months between the adoption of the tax law and its entry into force. The Chancellor of Justice has written to the Committee on Monetary Affairs just recently, these days, that this rule can be ignored if there are important and compelling reasons for doing so. It points out, for example, that sudden changes in taxes are understandable in situations where the country has suddenly been hit by an economic crisis, a natural disaster or other force majeure. What economic crisis or disaster have you considered to have hit our economy at the moment in order to violate the provision of the Tax Administration Act, according to which there must be at least six months between the adoption and entry into force of the Tax Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U27	Thank you for your question. You started your question with legitimate expectations. I quote from the executive edition of the Constitution: 'The legitimate expectation does not mean that restricting the rights of persons or ending benefits is at all unacceptable. The principle of legitimate expectations does not require the stoning of the current regulation by the legislator to reshape legal relations in line with changed circumstances and thus inevitably aggravate the situation of some members of society. " At the moment, we are discussing keeping the social tax rate the same. This would obviously provide an opportunity to reverse the other tax increases that have been made under the leadership of the Reform Party. I shall mention here the increase in VAT and also in excise duties on fuels for accommodation establishments. In addition to referring to legitimate expectations, the Chancellor of Justice states that, in addition to the principle of legitimate expectations, the principle of vacatio legis is also important, i.e. a reasonable period of time must be given to norm advocates in order to adapt to legislative changes. According to the current law, the social tax rate is 33%. The draft law states that the 33% rate will remain in force as from 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U28	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In addition to Mr Holsmer's question, to which you replied, that the first reading is ongoing and that there are plans to make changes, I have a question in turn. What changes are planned? Specific changes to this law? Or do you find, as your answers make sense, various interpretations of the Chancellor of Justice's assessment of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U30	Today we have to decide that the first reading will be completed. Then we will all, including you, be able to propose amendments within ten working days. Having been in the opposition for a long time, where amendments to the draft laws have to be tabled, I can say that ten working days are enough to develop them. Let's take turns, finish our first reading today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U31	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U32	What happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U33	It's a philosophical question. I think the question of what happened is for Igor Gräzin to present to the leadership of his party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U34	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U35	Thank you. Good waitress! 'In total, EUR 100 million more will be available to people and businesses as a result of the reduction in labour taxes. It can be consumed, saved or invested. However, for the next four years, this amount will already be EUR 800 million, which will directly support economic growth. ' It's a quote from an ideology of IRL, Sven Sester. My question, in fact, is this: what methods have you used to say that, in the past, at least in terms of reducing labour taxes, the IRL has now suddenly become the spokesperson for labour taxes in the government that is forming the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U36	Thank you. I'm not authorized to speak here on behalf of the IRL. But I understand that they are really looking for ways to change taxes so that people who work can have more money. This reduction in the social tax rate does not directly guarantee this because it does not mean wage growth. Reducing the social tax rate, in particular by half a percentage, does not mean that employers have the opportunity to create new jobs or are at all motivated to do so. I would like to remind you once again that a half-per cent reduction in the social tax rate means that the employer wins EUR 5.3 per employee with an average salary. Let us admit that this does not create new jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U37	Keit-Pentus Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U38	Thank you. I will continue to mediate the words of one of the main ideologies of IRL, Sven Sester, from a letter he has sent to the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu in the last month. His position on this draft has unfortunately been exactly the opposite. In particular, it refers to data that have been found that the 1% reduction in the labour tax rate increases employment by 35% and the impact on the employer is reflected in the fact that, for example, in the amount of the tax reduction, they can offer employees higher wages or hire new employees. Has the position that Sven Sester expressed to the Riigikogu at that moment in his office as Minister of Finance a month ago changed now, according to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U39	First of all, a personal line. I think Sven Sester thinks you're very sympathetic when you call him the chief ideology. I'm sure it's a compliment. You could say more from this hall. But now the question is whether winning the EUR 5.3 will cause the employer to raise his salary. Maybe. We believe that employers want nothing more than better conditions for their employees than tax changes. There are, however, much simpler and clearer tax methods by which employees receive more money into their bank accounts after paying taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U40	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U41	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I heard you say that everything that happens next is to keep more money in the hands of someone at work. Can you confirm that all people who work will have more money in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U42	I can't confirm that right now. But I think most people at work are expecting good news next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U43	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U44	Whoa, whoa, why? I'm doing other things right now. [[Laughter, comment on the floor.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U45	You received an unanswered question. That's great. Let's keep going. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U46	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! I don't think the members of the opposition party have bothered to read the bill. The views of the taxpayers' association, why they do not support the lowering of the social tax ceiling, have been very well set out there. Please, remind us what these reasons are.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U47	Indeed, this amendment was not made alone in the law, but was accompanied by a series of amendments which were unfavourable to economic operators. The Taxpayers' Association stated that the situation of the combined companies of the seven taxes, with the overall package, was rather deteriorating. The social tax rate was one thing in the whole package that was advertised, but the taxpayers' association found that reducing social tax to this extent does not give employers enough effect to create new jobs or implement structural economic reforms. The Union also agreed with those operators who found it embarrassing to obtain tax reductions, which result in increased excise duties on fuel and VAT on accommodation establishments harm the Estonian economy and make many people's livelihood worse. I would remind you that this package, which was adopted last year, increased VAT on accommodation services by 5%, from 9% to 14%. According to the Tourist Association, the government's decision seriously hampers the development and export of the Estonian economy and undermines the livelihood of those employed in the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U48	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U49	Thank you. Here's the question. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chancellor of Justice, the Confederation of Employers and the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu have clearly stated that such a tax amendment cannot be made at less than six months' notice because it would violate the Tax Organisation Act. Yesterday I received information from the news on the ERR portal, according to which the Centre Party confirmed that it would be possible to discuss the matter with its lawyers, and perhaps there is some way to keep the social tax from the new year. How have these discussions gone? Has the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice and the business organisations been reduced because there is an anonymous lawyer's opinion on which you form the view that the requirement of a six-month notice could be violated?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U50	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to comment on yesterday's AK. I was forced to make a comment before the Chancellor of Justice had sent his letter to the Riigikogu by post. I couldn't see his letter before, but they already asked for a comment. This letter was referred to me somewhat more restrictively than it really is. The Chancellor of Justice gives clear references here. It says first of all that it is not easy to say who is or had to be the real beneficiary of the change when looking at the target group and objectives of social tax reduction. As the employee cannot be required to reduce the social tax rate against the State or the employer, i.e. he is not the subject of a legal expectation, the exclusion of the social tax reduction in the short term must be seen in particular as an obstacle to the freedom to conduct a business and to the legitimate expectations of the entrepreneur and thus to analyse its justification and hence its constitutionality. Thus, the Chancellor of Justice clearly states that he has not yet had enough time to analyse the justification and, therefore, the constitutionality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U51	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The rule laid down in the Tax Administration Act, which generally requires at least six months between the adoption of the amendment and the entry into force of the scheme, was adopted only recently. We also had a consensual view in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this is a major step forward, an agreement between the state and businesses, which gives some stability. Have you not thought that if you wanted to enforce this bill, perhaps such a step would devalue the agreement and the principle enshrined in the Tax Administration Act? Does it not become pointless in the future if the state starts to interpret an agreement in this way arbitrarily?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U53	Thank you for your question. If you ask whether any step devalues the effects of this decision, I would say that it was devalued last spring if the government wanted to raise taxes very quickly immediately after the elections. This was done in order to make sure to get in six months. In the normal course of the procedure, the law would not have been passed in June, which is why a cluster bill was initiated here in the Riigikogu. I have already reminded you that the government wanted to send three tax packages, but in fact, unsubstantiated explanations were added as to why all taxes that exist in Estonia were included in one cluster bill. The draft law was initiated on 25 May. The Riigikogu was not given sufficient time to make amendments and the adoption was linked to a vote of confidence. This practice is obviously rolled over from normal practice in the Riigikogu. The President of the day also pointed out that this was not a beautiful thing. So the devaluation started last year, your own contribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U54	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 7 November. The representatives of the Centre Party Group, Kadri Simson and Tarmo Tamm, gave the Committee on Economic Affairs an overview of the draft, which more or less coincides with the presentation that Kadri Simson described to you here today. In short, the content. According to the current Social Tax Act, the social tax rate will be reduced from 33% to 32.5% from 1 January next year and from 32.5% to 32% from 1 January 2018. The draft we are currently discussing aims to abolish the reduction of the social tax rate both next year and 1 January 2018. The government's position, which was sent to us by Minister of Finance Sven Sester, was unambiguous: not to support the draft. I will also introduce the reasons given by the Minister of Finance. I quote from the letter from the Minister for Finance: 'The statement refers to the non-existent impact of the reduction in the social tax rate on employers. The impact of the change on the employer is certainly not non-existent. The impact of the reduction in the tax burden is close to EUR 90 million in 2018, which is around 0.4% of GDP. [---] Despite the fact that a reduction in the tax rate may seem marginal to the private sector, both general economic theory and various studies confirm that a reduction in the tax burden on labour has a positive impact on employment. For example, according to Eesti Pank's analysis [---] data from Estonia found that the fall in the tax rate of 1% increases employment by 0.35%. The impact on employers is reflected in the fact that, to the extent of the tax reduction, they can, for example, offer employees higher wages or hire new employees. ' Let us admit that this letter was sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs some time ago, perhaps about a month ago. I got another letter this morning. I asked the Minister of Finance what he thought of this bill now, because I heard from him, too, that the fall in social tax and labour tax is no longer such a priority. The position is as follows (i quote): 'My view on the possible abolition of a reduction in the social tax rate is that the legislator must have the possibility to replace one measure of state performance with another, in particular if it is a more effective measure than before. " Everyone can personally appreciate this view. I come back to the Commission's debate. We focused mainly on the same principle of legitimate expectations and § 41 of the Tax Administration Act, which says that there must be six months between the adoption and entry into force of tax changes. Consequently, I sent a letter to the Minister of Finance, the Chancellor of Justice, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Confederation of Employers, the Chamber of the Service Economy and also the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, where I asked for their position as to whether changing the tax environment in a more negative direction with less than six months' notice is in line with § 41 of the Tax Administration Act. The following is a presentation of the views of all of them to you. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise says that the Constitution allows the Riigikogu to amend tax laws and when the government coalition changes in the Riigikogu, it is natural that politics also changes. However, this does not mean that tax changes can only be made within a few weeks of notice. Restricting legitimate expectations, in this case the abolition of a tax reduction with a few weeks' notice, would require extraordinarily compelling reasons. In this case, the councillors of the Chancellor of Justice did not find such circumstances. In addition, the Chancellor of Justice writes: 'The regulation laid down by law, in conjunction with the provisions of § 41 of the MKS, by which the legislator has promised to introduce tax-enhancing changes, generally at six months' notice, has given the undertaking reasonable expectation that, in the coming year and the following year, the labour costs will be reduced to some extent by social tax. ' As to whether there is an emergency situation in the Republic of Estonia at the moment, the Chancellor of Justice says: 'For example, sudden and sudden changes in taxes are understandable in situations where the country has suddenly been hit by an economic crisis, a natural disaster or some other force majeure. Unexpected changes cannot, however, be justified by mere desire to change policies. It is also not enough to seek more money in the state budget, as the fiscal interest of the state generally does not outweigh the resistance to legitimate expectations. ' The letter from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry states: "The Chamber of Commerce considers that the amendment to the Social Tax Act repeals the reduction of the social tax rate that will enter into force on 01.01.2017 [... ] contrary to § 41 of the Tax Administration Act. This provision clearly states that there must normally be at least six months between the adoption and entry into force of the Tax Act (including the Social Tax Act) and the amendment. " The Chamber of Commerce stresses: '... This principle entered the Tax Administration Act by means of a collective appeal under the leadership of the Chamber of Commerce, signed by approximately 1300 companies and entrepreneurial individuals. The Riigikogu adopted these amendments with 80 votes in favour on 19 February 2015. The aim of the collective appeal was to increase the predictability of the tax environment, to give companies time to adapt to tax changes and to avoid a situation where, in order to increase the revenue of the state budget, the tax laws are to be amended in a hurry. The repeal of the reduction of the social tax rate by a period of notice of less than two months is certainly not in line with the objective of collective redress or with the principle of legitimate expectations described in the Constitution. ' The Confederation of Employers writes: 'The Confederation of Employers of Estonia certainly disagrees with the amendment of the law, which violates the principle of § 41 of the MKS that there must be 6 months between the adoption and entry into force of a tax amendment which is less favourable to the company. Businesses and the State have long taken account of the amendment of the law and organised their financial accounts accordingly. So it would be irresponsible to abandon it at the last moment. 'The reduction of the burden of labour taxes is one of the main objectives of the Estonian Employers' Confederation,' they add. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu finds in its opinion that the desired amendment to abolish the provision on the reduction of the social tax rate, which enters into force on 01.01.2017, runs counter to the reasonable rate of vacatio legis on tax laws contained in § 41 of the Tax Administration Act, which must be at least six months between the adoption and entry into force of the amendment to the Tax Act. These are views on the draft in the meantime. Returning to the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 7 November, I say that the Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda by today, 17 November 2016 (this was a consensual decision) and to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading. In favour of the rejection, the members of the committee were Kalvi Tõvi and Kalev Eagle from Social Democrats, Priit Sibul from IRL and Aivar Sõerd, Urve Tiidus and Remo Holsmer from the Reform Party. Andres Ammas of the Free Party and Kadri Simson, Kersti Sarapuu and Tarmo Tamm of the Centre Party were opposed. The proposal is to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U56	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Perhaps you refreshed the memory of your colleagues and recall how this tax amendment was adopted and what comment the Chancellor of Justice had when the tax law was adopted as you now want to preserve, saying that our proposal, or the Centre Party, is a little law-preventive, rather than corrupting, but preventive. Describe Mrs Madise's speech on your cluster law and tell us what our Chancellor of Justice said when you adopted it. How did you at the time justify the necessity of your legislative changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U58	Thank you. On the so-called preventive nature of the law, I have just described to you the positions that have been sent by the Chancellor of Justice, employers and the Chamber of Commerce. Violation of the principle of legitimate expectations and violation of § 41 of the Tax Administration Act are clearly and unambiguously read to you. I don't have the Chancellor of Justice's previous opinions at hand. You're probably referring to spring 2015. If you want them, someone's gonna find them and send them to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U59	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U60	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You said in your report that the Chancellor of Justice did not find compelling reasons. I will read you the end of page two and the beginning of page three of the letter from the Chancellor of Justice. 'In summary, the state may decide to change its commitment to reduce the social tax rate on a fixed-term basis, if there are compelling reasons for doing so. Since it is not possible to establish by the deadline for replying to the letter you requested whether there are compelling reasons for amending the regulation setting the fixed-term social tax rate, the Chancellor of Justice cannot give a single position as to whether the amendments would be compatible with the Constitution. " My question goes this way: Why do you misquote letters to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U61	Thank you. I did not ask you exactly the same question when you quoted the possible amendments to the VAT law, which are also in this letter. It doesn't really get us anywhere. But the Chancellor of Justice says that sudden and sudden changes in taxes are understandable in a situation where the country has suddenly been hit by an economic crisis or a natural disaster. I understand from the Chancellor of Justice that neither he nor his advisers have noticed a natural disaster in Estonia at the moment, nor the economic crisis. I do not recall you, too, in your speech here, mentioning the economic crisis that hit Estonia or the natural disaster. As the initiator of the draft act, you should state the compelling reasons why the principle laid down in the Tax Administration Act should be infringed, that tax changes must be adopted six months before they enter into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U62	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U63	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. The European Commission has reaffirmed that next year's state budget is not in structural balance. The basic law of the budget, however, prohibits us from adopting a law that is not structurally balanced. Why did the government submit a draft law to the Riigikogu that does not comply with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U64	What do we have here? What we are discussing at the moment is draft law 288 amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws. The budget law, the second reading of which ended yesterday and the third reading comes at the end of the year, is not on the agenda today. I also read the news you are referring to, the European Commission's assessment of Estonia's budgetary position. Estonia's budget is made with a structural surplus of 0.2%. The debate between the Ministry of Finance, Eesti Pank and the European Commission to assess the position of the Estonian budget and the position of the Estonian economy has taken place in recent years. Opinions have been different, you know that very well. There's a difference in methodology, there's a difference in assumptions. The European Commission considers the Estonian economy to be in one position, the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank to be in another. Don't read the big drama on this news. The state budget is in structural surplus, public finances are in good order and I hope that this will continue to be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U65	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U66	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Unlike the Riigikogu, which has the time to adopt the budget until next March, very many entrepreneurs have already made the budget for next year. Apparently, they have also taken into account the entire tax environment. Do you also know the opinions of entrepreneurs and organisations? What do the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other organisations think about the current change? What are the consequences for them, and what is their opinion on the reversal of taxes in less than six months?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U67	Thank you. I've already read all the opinions to you. I asked for the position of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation and also the Chamber of Service Economy. The common position of all of them is that, at such short notice, tax changes cannot be made in a worse direction for the taxpayer. The reason is the same as what you referred to in the budget has long been done, but now it is the end of November and we are only reading the first reading on this particular draft. This certainly violates the expectations and plans of businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U68	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U69	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! In the context of the draft we are discussing, much has been said about the great minus of the sickness fund. In fact, it's been talked about this minus for many years. Since our solution is not suitable for you, please talk about your solution. How do you get rid of the downside of the Health Insurance Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U70	Thank you. The reduction in social security contributions by 1% does not reduce the income of the sickness fund in any way. The health insurance fund is compensated directly from the state budget for the amount less than the social tax. With regard to the wider budget of the Health Insurance Fund, in the coming years the budget, which is currently EUR 1 billion, will increase to EUR 50.60 million per year and will reach EUR 1.2 billion in four years. So the growth is quite remarkable. Apparently, there are few public institutions, institutions, ministries with comparable growth that can enjoy such growth. This does not mean, of course, that the health insurance fund can perform all its functions. What this money can offer to the people of Estonia is already a question for them. But once again, the social tax reduction does not affect the income of the sickness fund, because they are compensated by other revenue from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U71	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U72	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! With this bill, you have collected a great deal of material from various parties. Why have you not done the same with the other drafts that have been dealt with by the Commission? Yesterday we dealt with the state budget, in which a number of amendments tabled by opposition parties certainly deserved support for the wider well-being of society, but you had not even asked for an analysis. Why haven't you been so thorough about the other drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U73	Thank you. I don't agree. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has been very inclusive of all the drafts. I will give an example of the Investment Funds Act sent by the government to the Riigikogu. In the days that followed, we immediately sent out letters to all market participants asking for an opinion on this bill, and so will other laws. That's just one example. Since the issue of involvement at the level of the Riigikogu is extremely topical, I think that this practice should certainly be continued in the future, even though the government has already passed coordination circles between ministries, interest groups and organisations before drafting the draft. I think it makes perfect sense if the Riigikogu asks for opinions and finds out the positions. I understand that the criticism is that we have asked for too many opinions. [[???Saalist hõigatakse: 'Liiga vähe!'???]] Someone says too much, someone thinks too little. With regard to the current draft, I have indeed asked several parties and I think that this practice should continue in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U74	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I just want to remind you, in the light of this draft and your position, of 2009, when amendments to the VAT law were adopted in June, which entered into force on 1 July. However, no notice was given to the operators. And then, let me remind you, VAT went up to 20%. At the time, the Chancellor of Justice referred in the same way to the fact that it was unconstitutional, but it still remained in force. Your Prime Minister at the time, Andrus Ansip, defended this bill. What we are talking about now is that nothing has changed for businesses yet, 33% remains at 33%, and that is it. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U76	Thank you. I understand that the middle group wants to raise social tax. Understood, political choice. There is currently a law that reduces social tax. You referred to 2009. In 2015, the Riigikogu changed the Tax Administration Act by consensus, all four political parties that were in parliament found to be fair to the principle that there should be six months between the adoption and entry into force of tax changes. The Centre Party, Reform Party, IRL and Social Democrats were in favour. If you are now trying to protect shorter notice periods and tax increases, this is also in some respects a position. I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U77	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! What kind of tax changes that the Reform Party has made in governing and which, in time, seem to be detrimental to the state, should you, as a political technological genius, be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U79	Thank you for your question. This does not concern this draft and we did not discuss it in the Commission either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U80	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U81	Thank you, manager. Good chairman of the committee! I'm asking about legitimate expectations. As we know, in 2009 a revenue base of 0.5% was withdrawn from the municipalities. We also know that farmers have a legitimate expectation of receiving transitional support in order to be equal in competition. Why is legitimate expectations selective?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U82	Thank you. The legitimate expectation in the context of the draft under discussion is that tax changes to companies in a negative direction must be adopted six months before they enter into force. It has been referred to by all the organisations and people to whom I have written and asked for an opinion. It is also my own view that the six-month principle must be followed in the future. As I said before, in 2015 all the political groups represented in the Riigikogu have supported this principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U83	Thank you, Remo Holsmer! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U84	Honorable manager! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The reduction in labour taxes is a noble idea and, in my understanding, it is supported in one way or another by everyone in this Chamber. It's a matter of how to do it. The previous government coalition, according to the Free Party, chose a completely unsuccessful path. Businesses, however, have not rejoiced over this half-percent tax reduction in our experience. They have said that it is rather a very formal fulfilment of cosmetics or simply a party's electoral promise, so that at least something can be reported before the forthcoming elections. It would be a matter of course if the Estonian tax system really became such a three-legged taburette, where, in addition to taxes on labour and consumption, there are, for example, property taxes. Then this tax system would be much better balanced. Companies would enjoy much more a reduction in social tax by 50% if a social tax ceiling were introduced or if the current minimum social tax was abolished, or if this minimum was at least significantly reduced. These measures would be measures that the entrepreneur would feel and could actually boost the Estonian economy in the future. The Free Party hopes that the future government coalition will also consider these measures very seriously. One good colleague asked whether we are dealing with a disaster or a crisis. In our view, certainly not, such arguments cannot in any way be invoked. The democratic crisis was in this Chamber last June and the fact that several issues have referred to it today has, in my opinion, been appropriate. What took place last spring in the process of adopting the so-called cluster law and pushing it through the road roll method is a very, very embarrassing episode in Estonian parliamentary history. Let us hope that no future coalition will ever make such a mistake again. The Free Party Group respects, respects the position of the Chancellor of Justice and believes that this must be taken seriously. In the course of the future procedure of the draft legislation, it must be very seriously analysed when the law will actually be in force. However, there is no reason to vote it out today. The Free Party Group supports the discussion of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-17_U85	There is no further wish for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. The Committee on Finance has proposed to reject the draft 288 as the lead committee at first reading. This proposal needs to be voted on today. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to reject 288 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 25 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 67 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. [[Big buzzing in the hall, the manager ringing the bell.]] Honourable Riigikogu! First reading of bill 288 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 December. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 11.09 a.m.
