ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U1	We will begin the first reading of the draft law amending the Construction Code and the Planning Act, which was initiated by the Economic Commission. Initiator's waitress, Member of the Commission Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U2	Good night, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Chairman, The draft Act amending the Construction Act and the Planning Act is intended to amend the Construction Act and § 16 of the Planning Act Implementation Act. The deadline for the transition to invitations in the fields of design, construction project expertise, construction studies, building audit and owner supervision shall be 1 January 2018. The draft has been prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. [[It's buzzing in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U3	Sorry, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U4	I don't mind. Talk to me, talk to me. I'm not bothering you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U5	Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U6	You can sing a song. Pursuant to § 24 of the Construction Code, an undertaking and a competent person may, in the field of construction, offer their services and operate in the course of an economic activity, provided that the qualification of the competent person acting under the responsibility of the undertaking and for its benefit is attested by a certificate of competence in accordance with the Professional Act on the basis of education and professional experience. The Law on the Implementation of the Construction Code and the Planning Act introduced a transitional period during which competent persons can demonstrate their competence with professional higher education and professional experience. This transitional period ends on 30 June 2018 in the field of construction and on 30 June 2016 in the field of design, construction studies, owner supervision, construction projects and expert assessments of buildings. So, from s. a As from 1 July, the field of expertise in design, construction studies, building audit, owner supervision and construction projects can no longer be demonstrated by education and professional experience. The length of transitional periods for the transition to professional activity was established on the basis of the ability of the professionals to ensure quality invitations and to avoid poor work due to haste. It is also based on the fact that the duration of the transitional period would be sufficient for those active in the sector to obtain the necessary invitation. Unfortunately, it has now become apparent that the length of the transitional period has not been sufficient. For example, as of 14 March of this year, 8631 of these business notifications by construction companies, which will be covered by the transitional period on 30 June, are in the register, but as of 1 July, 1721 of these notifications will be compliant, i.e. only around 20%. Therefore, the results of the transitional period have not been as expected and the actual process of applying for invitations has not started at enough speed. There is a risk that a considerable number of those involved in the above activities will not be able to apply for the invitation required by § 24 of the Construction Code by 1 July. a maybe in a little more than a month. This means that a very large part of the companies active in the market in the field of design, construction research, owner supervision, building project expertise and building audit would no longer be present from 1 July. a the competence to continue in their field of activity. In view of the above, and taking into account that there are insufficient qualified persons with a professional certificate in the field of design, construction studies, owner supervision, expertise in construction projects and the audit of buildings, it is reasonable to extend the period of transition to professions for those professions and to set a deadline from which persons engaged in the above activities must hold a certificate of competency to prove their competence, by 1 January 2018. The aim is then to extend the transitional period by one and a half years. This change will provide additional time for all the professionals in these professions to be invited. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue at its two meetings, this year on 8 March and 9 May, and decided to submit a draft to that effect. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour of initiating the draft, 2 against and no abstentions. It was proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 17 May, and today it is already 19 May. The proposal was that amendments could be tabled within five working days. So if today is 19 May, the deadline for amendments could therefore be 26 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U7	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U8	Good manager! Good waitress! First of all, I must thank the fate that the Committee on Economic Affairs has taken such a draft into its own hands, and we have one foolishness less to liquidate. But I'm asking you how the situation is that we have a code that says the university diploma is no longer a document and people have to get some other paper. Do officials in our country have little work to do in order to create some kind of company to pay their wages to and from whom I must apply for a certificate of competency? If I still have a civil engineering diploma, I think it should be enough after 2018. Perhaps we could discuss this in order to simply cancel these paragraphs? The diploma is still a diploma.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U9	Thank you for your question. I have to admit that this is a somewhat exceptional situation, if not a perilous one, that in Estonia it is true that if a person completes as an engineer at Tallinn University of Technology, for example, it is as if he cannot work under the construction code until he has received further professional certificates: he has collected points, attended courses and then received a certificate, paid some money for it. It's like it can work. This is relatively exceptional. For example, it is quite common that if an Estonian engineer goes to work in the Nordic countries or in another neighbouring country and shows his professional certificates, they say what they are. It's like a man doesn't have the right to work. But if he shows that wait-wait, I actually have a university diploma too, they say they could have started right now. This system really wants a review. If a university diploma doesn't count at all, it's like another extreme. We also discussed this issue in the Commission, and when we agreed to postpone this deadline for a year and a half, we asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs to review this section of the professional certificates' requirements, so that it was practical and reasonable. We asked for changes to be made there, if necessary, and for these proposals to be submitted to the Commission. The Commission is ready to take this forward itself. The representatives of the Ministry of Education, who attended the meeting of the Commission, also acknowledged that this was a somewhat over-regulated issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U10	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U11	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you also to the Commission's rapporteur for a thorough presentation. The position of architects was read in a letter sent by the Society of Architects. The architect is known to be a profession regulated at European level by the directive and, therefore, architects have also made rapid progress in implementing the professional system at national level. 650 invitations have been issued, about 700 people are working as architects according to Statistics Estonia, and it is very regrettable for them that the state is giving a rather opposite signal today. Has the exclusion of architects from this list been considered, since they have the problem for which the draft has been initiated, as it has not been?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U12	Thank you very much for your question. I'm about to get an answer. We've considered it, and it's definitely an option. But my records say that as of April 30, that's a little more than a month ago, there were invited architects in 302. However, I must admit that, yes, among architects, this application for professional certificates has been the most lively. In this sense, it has been the best developed professional association. As regards the fact that the profession of architect is regulated by directives in the European Union, I have such information. I will read to you a letter from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications: 'The proposed postponement of the competence requirement is directly contrary to the European Union Qualifications Directive. Please note that the competence of architects is considered so important that the requirements for their qualifications are described in conjunction with the requirements for doctors, midwives, pharmacists and others directly dependent on people's lives. " This letter was sent by the Minister of Culture to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Ministry of Education and Research has answered that question. The answer is this: 'The proposed postponement of competence requirements is not contrary to the directive, as the directive sets out the duration and content of training and our ECA studies are in line with this. According to the Directive, an EEA graduate is a qualified architect who is entitled to an automatic certificate in other Member States. " It has also been added that the profession of architect is not regulated within the meaning of the Professional Directive, but according to the Building Code. So that's the kind of answers from the ministries, anyway. Indeed, we also discussed in the Commission that perhaps this postponement is not necessary in the case of architects, since the largest number of them, however, has already obtained this certificate. At the same time, we found it reasonable to include all the professions listed in the postponement. Otherwise, it would take time to remove them from different locations. We would not have been able to move forward so quickly with the draft, and the law would have applied from 1 July and caused much confusion. For reasons of legal clarity, we did not make exceptions. That was the Commission's discussion, and so it was decided. We are now in the process of first reading, after which amendments can be made. If they come, we can discuss it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U13	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U14	First of all, thank you for a very meaningful answer. I am pleased that you agree with me as former Minister of Economic Affairs. I'm just asking myself. In a month's time, the law would take any opportunity for me, a civil engineer with a TPI diploma, to work in the field of construction. How did it happen that this bill arrived so late in this hall, and now we have to propose amendments in five days' time? By the way, the Riigikogu will miss a sitting-free week.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U15	Thank you. I have to admit, the question is justified. I don't like it personally, either, when you have to hold an apology for expressing yourself like that! be able to move forward with the drafts. It's not good practice. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue for the first time on 8 March, so we have had it on the table for longer. It has taken time that we have wanted feedback from stakeholders and again from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we have also met with the Chancellor of Justice. It's all taken time, and it's one of the reasons, I can't tell you if it's the only one. Let's take some ash and shake our heads, try not to practice this practice in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U16	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, dear waitress. We had a talk here about the Estonian Architects Association, but also the Estonian Association of Civil Engineers expresses its insistence because of the postponement. Have you contacted them, and how do they have this process going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U18	Yes, we were invited to the hearing, both the Society of Civil Engineers and the Association of Architects, as well as the Association of Construction Operators. Unfortunately, the Society of Civil Engineers expressed its reservations, but the homework was unfortunately unfinished, at least to a large extent. In view of the current state of play, for most professions represented by these associations, readiness is 19%, 12%, 22%, depending on the profession. For example, there are 863, among the qualified people who audit the building, 172, or 20%, have a qualification, 1141, 206, or 18%, etc. In essence, it will not be possible to make up for this backwardness in a few months. It wouldn't be a proper invitation anymore, it would be just buying a document. I don't think it would be in anyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U19	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 238. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for tabling 238 amendments, including 26 May at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U20	Today's 11th item is the first reading of the Bill 201 of Amendment to the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. And as a waitress, please to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U21	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The current Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provides that the President, the Prime Minister and the Ministers of the Republic are entitled to make a political statement at a session of the Riigikogu. The executive publication of the Act states regarding § 155 that the political statement is the presence of the President of the Republic or a member of the Government before the Riigikogu of his own motion and on the subject of his own choice. In general, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask an oral question to the official who has spoken. The right to ask a member of the Riigikogu may be restricted if the President, Prime Minister or ministers of the Republic submit a political declaration. If this is a political statement made on its own initiative, it should not restrict the right of a member of the Riigikogu to ask a question. Members of the Riigikogu should be given the opportunity to ask at least one oral question from the rapporteur, even if the rapporteur makes a political statement before the Riigikogu on his own initiative. The executive publication of the Act says that the speech of the President of the Republic at the first session of the new Riigikogu is similar in substance to a political statement, but the provisions of § 155 do not apply to the opening statement. The same is true when the President of the Republic opens the autumn session of the Riigikogu with his speech. Since the purpose of the draft is to change the regulation of presenting a political statement on its own initiative in such a way that a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask at least one oral question to the speaker, the same possibility should be provided for members of the Riigikogu in the event of the opening speech of the President of the Republic and other speeches. If the Prime Minister, the Auditor General, the Chancellor of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court and the Governor of Eesti Pank are obliged to present a report or review before the Riigikogu and a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask an oral question to them, it is not justified to restrict the right of a member of the Riigikogu to submit a question if the President of the Republic is the rapporteur. That is what I stress in the interests of the verbatim report, so that the content of the draft is clear. In short, I say that dialogue is always better than a monologue and I will prove it by answering your many questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U22	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Now I would like to ask Andre Sepa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft 201 at its meeting on 10 May. I will give a brief overview of the debate. The representative of the initiator of the draft act introduced the draft law amending the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act 201 to the Commission, as he has just spoken on this board. The initiator added that the President of the Republic will give two speeches a year: the speech of the new year and the opening speech of the autumn session of the Riigikogu, followed by a discussion about what the President of the Republic specifically spoke about and what he might have thought. Such problems would be solved if a member of the Riigikogu was able to ask questions to the President of the Republic and to clarify the point he has made. That is what Bill 201 is meant to regulate. The Commission discussed how things are in other countries. The main focus was on the order of America and Russia, i.e. the presidential states. The Commission's discussion continued to say that if the President of Estonia is interested in answering questions, it is very good. However, this draft would be over-regulation, which would make making statements essentially a continuation of Riigikogu Question Time. One member of the committee noted that the law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu would require a thorough revision, both in its entirety and in its individual parts, and wanted to know why the amendment was initiated from § 155, which, according to the questioner, is one of the least necessary sections in practice and which is the least problematic. The originator's representative said there's something to start with. However, it was not considered to be a good proposal. The current law does not provide for the possibility that the President holds a parliamentary debate with members of the Riigikogu. The law does not provide for this because, according to the Constitution, the President of the Republic does not have a role that would require a parliamentary debate to be held. This amendment would give Parliament more colour, but given the debates that have occasionally been held in the Chamber of the Riigikogu in the recent past, it would most likely devalue both Parliament and the institution of the President of the Republic in one way or another, reducing their dignity. It was noted that the starting point is that the President's institution, regardless of who the President is, cannot under any circumstances be a political competitor of Parliament. The Constitution was also reviewed and it was stated that according to the Constitution the President is not accountable to the Riigikogu. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 17 May (consensus), to propose that the draft be rejected (by 6, 3 against, no abstentions) and to appoint Mr Andre Sepp (consensus), member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U24	Thank you, dear waitress. There's a question for you too. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress Andre! Did it then sound on the committee that I understand that the vote ended as at 6: 3 - that six members were convinced that the next president would not have the capacity to come to this Riigikogu and answer wise questions from members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U26	I'm sure that wasn't the case. As I expressed in my speech, regardless of who is the President of the Republic of Estonia, he is an institution protected by the Constitution and he has no obligation to report to the Riigikogu or to hold a debate here. It doesn't depend on the President's personality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U27	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Jüri Adams, the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U28	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have been constantly promoting here this year the idea that we should launch a review and improvement of the current Rules of Procedure as soon as possible. Why do I think so, I have said a lot about this here, but all in all, the reason is that I missed this hall for 12 years, and if I now compare the possibilities given by the current Rules of Procedure and those that were in the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu 12 years ago, they are like night and day. It's been terrible going downhill. The rights of members of the Riigikogu have almost been cut off, replaced with those of political groups, and there is a great deal of imitation of work. I have also made a number of short speeches on this subject in a free microphone. When this series ends, I hope to publish them as some sort of separate brochure or book, or put them on the Internet, because the problems are too widespread to be explained in a few words. The last waitress did not name me, but I asked in committee why the Centre Party would start its very sympathetic initiative for me from an section that I really think is something that is not very important to us in practice. But I will join with all those who are now thinking about what improvements need to be made to the Rules of Procedure. I hope they're coming too. But why do they start with it? There are other issues, including who can give a speech at which reading and how amendments can be put to the vote. They're much more important. However, the Free Party Group still does not support the removal of the draft from the procedure in the next vote. We think it is good to have drafts on this subject in the process. If the Board of the Riigikogu fails to comply with the moral obligation to launch a revision of the Rules of Procedure, I think it will fail to do so, then we will have to do so ourselves, even by proposing amendments to the draft of this Centre Party. Finally, some comments have been made on the particular section of which the Centre Party requests amendments. This paragraph has not been very successful in the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, and the reason is that one section has tried to set standards for three different phenomena in the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the opening speech of the President of the Republic as an established political tradition when the session begins. I do not think that this beautiful political tradition needs to be backed up by questions, especially given that, over these years, the Riigikogu has developed a perfect technique of malicious, offensive, humiliating questions, and it certainly does not fit in with such speeches. In the same way, for example, it would not be appropriate to give the bishop of some kind of church blessing an opportunity to ask abusive questions. These aren't things you can put together. Another phenomenon covered by this paragraph is the extraordinary political statements that may be made by the Prime Minister or by a minister. I think that in such a case there might be an application maker to decide whether or not questions can be asked and how many questions can be asked. It depends on how much time he has and what the content of the statement is. In this case, it would probably be necessary to add an ad hoc item to the agenda on the political statement that has just been heard in the negotiations. In the 1920s, the Estonian Riigikogu had such a regime in place and it was quite common that after the Prime Minister had made his statement, several hours of negotiations were followed and even a decision was taken on how the majority of the Riigikogu would view the statement that had just been heard. It was called the transition form of the political jargon at the time. I don't know where that term came from, but that's what it was called. And the third phenomenon covered by this section is regular reports by various public officials on their field of activity. They are either once a year or, in the case of some officials, several times a year and there are also those that are not periodic. There's a problem with them. You know that if we usually have a limited number of questions to ask, there is, for some reason, a time limit in the Rules of Procedure for all these officials. It is as if there is some important reason why the Auditor General or the Chancellor of Justice, or anyone else, must be asked questions only within 20 minutes and not in terms of time without limit, as we do with all the other items on the agenda. There is no logic here, and perhaps someone can tell us how this bizarre twisting of the hands of the Riigikogu has arisen in the Rules of Procedure. In the case of regular reports by public officials, rather than exceptional reports, negotiations should be allowed in full, but these are important items on the agenda. I hope that this initiative of the Centre Party will give us enough to think about the work of making the Rules of Procedure sensible. There is not much time for this; the next Riigikogu elections will be very soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U29	Thank you. Eiki Nestor, Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U30	I would like to thank my group for the opportunity to speak, because there were the words 'the Board of the Riigikogu'. The Board of the Riigikogu has asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to deal with the amendment of the Home and Working Procedures Act and I hope that this work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be fruitful. I hope that all the political groups will be active in proposing amendments. However, I would like to say two things here: it will take at least 51 people to vote in favour of this law and no one will be able to write it alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U31	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 201 at first reading and we will go to the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission 201 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 29 abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U32	Today's 12th item is the second reading of the draft Act 190 on the ratification of the 2014 Protocol to the Forced Labour Convention initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Vilja Toomas, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U33	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 190 on the ratification of the 2014 Protocol to the Forced Labour Convention was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 7 March including. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 20 April and also on 20 April. No amendments were tabled by 5.15 p.m. on 4 May. The Committee on Social Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 9 May. The Commission did not make any amendments either, but it made the following procedural decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary sitting of the Riigikogu by 18 May inclusive and put the draft to the final vote at the end of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U34	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U35	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U36	Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were received. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote of 190, and we will go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft Act 190 on the ratification of the 2014 Protocol to the Forced Labour Convention initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 7 abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U37	Today's 13th item is the second reading of the draft law 199 on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur is Monika Haukanõm, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U38	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good night's work!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U39	Dear members of the Riigikogu, let's focus on the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U40	I want to introduce you to an unspoken good initiative. In particular, on 14 March the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws. The first reading took place more than a month ago, already on April 13. So let me introduce very briefly the substance of this draft, because perhaps you will not remember it at all. The aim of this amendment is to extend the payment of public pensions, albeit with certain restrictions, to all foreign countries. Under current national law, a person must normally live in Estonia in order to receive a state pension. National pensions are currently paid outside Estonia only to European Union and European Free Trade Association countries under European Union regulations and to countries with which Estonia has concluded bilateral social security agreements. Therefore, the draft is very correct and necessary, as this law would eliminate the discriminatory situation that has persisted for many years. We currently have a residence limit, the purpose of this draft is to extend the right to receive pensions to all entitled persons. The main objective of the draft is to ensure pension rights for almost all people who have moved outside Estonia when the risk of old age and the risk of survivors materialise. There are more and more of these people, as we know. It should also be said that the Estonian state is currently exporting pension outside of Estonia to 35 countries. There are 27 Member States of the European Union and four members of the European Free Trade Association: Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. In addition, there are four other countries with bilateral social security agreements: the Republic of Moldova, Canada, Ukraine and the Russian Federation. But it is known that the Estonian state has recognised 195 countries in the world. According to this bill, we extend by 160 the number of countries where the Estonian people who are entitled to an old-age pension receive their pension. So our people can move, I don't know, to Cambodia or anywhere. But I come to the procedure that took place between the first reading and the second reading. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 27 April. No amendments were received at that time. After completion of the first reading of the draft, the Committee on Social Affairs met three times to discuss the draft and prepare the second reading: on 3, 9 and 16 May. At its first meeting, the Commission decided to table three amendments to the draft in preparation for the second reading. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Lidia Soontak, Head Specialist of the Social Security Department, and Susanna Jurs, Legal Adviser to the Legal and Human Resources Department, participated in the discussion. I would like to introduce these three amendments very briefly. The first amendment is technical, and I will not stop at that for a very long time. Amendment 2 deletes the possibility of temporarily suspending the payment of the pension at the time of arrest, as the police are unable to inform the Social Insurance Board that the pensioner is in the detention centre as part of the exchange of data. The arest shall be fixed for a maximum period of 30 days. As a general rule, the payment of the pension shall be suspended from the first date of the month following the month in which the circumstances arose. This is due to the fact that the current month's pension is paid at the beginning of the month, so the pension is essentially paid in advance. Thus, in cases where the pension has already been paid to the person for the current month, it is not legally possible to suspend the payment of the pension, as the maximum period of detention is 30 days. With Amendment 3, we have specified terminology. The term 'freedom penalty' is used in the draft. This means both detention and imprisonment, and this amendment concerns the suspension of a pension in the event of the loss of a person. However, according to § 140 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is correct to use the word 'incarceration'. Namely, there is a search for an abscondation of imprisonment and a search for a convicted person who is absconding the execution of a sentence, so it is only possible to speak of imprisonment. We have reached procedural decisions and proposals. At its meeting on 9 May, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 18 May today is already 19 May and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Both decisions were taken by consensus. On 16 May, the procedural documents for the second reading were approved and, if the second reading is completed on 18 May, it was decided to send the draft to the third reading by 1 June and to put it to the final vote. All three decisions were also consensual. The majority of the members of the Riigikogu are required to adopt the bill as a law, as the bill also amends the law on courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U41	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. There are three amendments to the draft and we will examine them together. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, is the position of the commission: take full account. The second amendment, as well as the position proposed by the Committee on Social Affairs, of the lead committee: take full account. The third amendment is also from the Committee on Social Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The amendments have been examined. The Governing Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 199. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U42	Let's keep going. Today's 14th item is the first reading of the draft Act 232 amending the Law on Identity Documents, the Credit Institutions Act and the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U43	Mr President, and the members of the Riigikogu still upstairs. It is my great honour and pleasure to present you with such an important bill at this hour as 1.47. The draft before you is based on the objective of simplifying the legal bases for issuing digital IDs and encouraging the use of digital ID public services by e-residents. I am very grateful to all those people and associations who have helped to do this draft. They are from both the public and private sectors, and the contribution made together to the completion of this draft has been significant. For information, more than 10,000 people have applied for the status of e-resident of the Republic of Estonia and the vast majority of them have also received e-resident status. We have received these requests from 127 countries, mostly Finland, Russia, the United States, Ukraine and Italy. The current law sets two basic conditions for applying for e-resident status. One assumption is that the person has a link to the Estonian state, and the other assumption is that the person has a legitimate interest in using Estonian e-services. We have a proposal to the Riigikogu to remove from this list of preconditions the principle that a person's relationship with the Estonian state must be found on the basis of the first contact. We believe that this must be interpreted more broadly. The current requirement to have a link with Estonia at the time of applying for e-resident status is, in our opinion, not very justified and in practice this has created problems. This is why we have found it more appropriate to focus the resource that is currently going to check the link between the applicant and Estonia, in particular on checking the background and follow-up of persons. In the draft, we also propose the possibility of transferring the task of issuing an e-resident's digital ID application to either an administrative contract or a civil contract. As we know, biometric data are taken from the e-resident during the processing of the application and it is necessary for the applicant to appear personally either at the service of the Police and Border Guard Board or at the Estonian diplomatic mission. At the same time, if we look at where applications are submitted to us, we will see that the network of foreign representations is not wide enough and that applicants for e-residency in some parts of the world may find it unreasonable or costly to travel to the nearest Estonian foreign representation. We have a proposal to take the same approach as in the Aliens Act for issuing visas: visas can also be applied for in places where private persons who have obtained the powers granted by a defined administrative agreement are located. An important part of the volume of the bill also includes changes that will enable both Estonian residents and e-residents to open a bank account without going to a bank office in the future. At this point, of course, it must be stressed that the changes will make it easier and faster to open a bank account, but we will not abolish security requirements and maintain bank due diligence. Since for some time there are information technology solutions that can also identify a person from a distance, it is reasonable that we go along with the times and actually allow both Estonian people and our e-residents to open bank accounts from a distance. I believe that this step is a very important sign for developing the e-residency programme. This will certainly give the Estonian economy a boost. If the conditions laid down by law are met, identification by means of information technology is equivalent to on-site identification. In particular, people are interviewed by means of an IT solution and banks are obliged to record it. For the identification of a person, the identity card of the Republic of Estonia and the digital document of the e-resident shall be used in the case of e-residents. As far as IT tools are concerned, we are giving the Minister of Finance the opportunity to specify how data storage requirements must be ensured, what data media are stored in, and how it will be possible to reproduce everything later. However, one important observation here for all of you: the requirements that we have set can be met by credit institutions, but are not obliged to comply. The credit institution shall continue to have the right to decide whether or not it allows a bank account to be opened remotely. If there is any doubt or risk, the credit institution need not allow it. In the Credit Institutions Act, we are making some further changes to specify the interaction between banks and law enforcement authorities. There have been three main topic blocks of the draft, and I very much hope that, despite the late hours of the Riigikogu, the great hall of the Riigikogu will finish its first reading today. I also hope that the Riigikogu will deal with this bill quickly and we can give e-residents the opportunity to move more flexibly in the Estonian economic space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U44	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. And now I would like to ask Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you at first reading the draft law amending the Identity Documents Act, the Credit Institutions Act and the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act, which was just introduced by the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. It should be pointed out that, for one third, this draft is not a matter for the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for two thirds, but is in the sense of amending laws. On this block, which is not directly within the competence of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs requested an opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have sent them a letter to that effect and we are also expecting the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to make a major contribution to the drafting process. The draft was discussed by the Commission on 9 May and, as in this Chamber today, by Hanno Pevkur, the Minister of the Interior, together with the officials of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance. I think the most important thing has already been mentioned here. I will complement the Minister by simply explaining why it is important that banks no longer have to physically invite the e-resident to Estonia to open a bank account. This has so far been a major obstacle to becoming an e-resident that opening a bank account in the Republic of Estonia has been linked to having to travel to Estonia, even though e-residency has been applied for outside Estonia. This change is certainly a sign. The bank can identify the client by using Skype or another IT solution. This is the most important amendment proposed in the draft. In addition, we discussed in the Commission the possibility of a management contract for the issuance of e-resident digital IDs. That's what we were talking about. Currently, foreign agencies have agreements with private companies for issuing visas and similar contracts could also be concluded for issuing digital IDs for e-resident. Of course, all requirements, including responsibilities and security, must be taken into account. This will make it easier to conduct business and apply for e-residency outside Estonia. We talked about how much interest there is in e-residency, how many applications have been made. In total, there are over 10,000 applications for e-residency in the Republic of Estonia, this process continues. If this bill is passed as a law, it will be a very good addition and an incentive for people interested in our e-residency to emerge from all over the world. We also talked about extending bank secrecy in the Commission. The draft contains some paragraphs on how law enforcement authorities obtain information from the bank in certain procedures. We will specify this part between the first and second readings with the Banking Union. The draft has been on a long round of coordination with the government, it has been coordinated with different stakeholders and the ideas received have been further developed. To conclude, the Commission decided by consensus to propose the deadline for amendments to be set at 5.15 p.m. on 1 June and to conclude the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U46	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you either. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 232. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for tabling 232 amendments, including 1 June at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U47	Today's 15th item is the first reading of the Bill 231 on Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U48	Respectables! Have a nice early morning, everybody! Now a little bit of the Defence Forces and Defence Intelligence. The purpose of this draft, which I present here, is based on the government's programme of action and is linked to the intelligence activities of the Defence Forces, which must be brought into line with the changed security situation. We want to continue to improve the collection and processing of information and the capabilities that we are creating for the military defence of Estonia. These changes in the draft allow the Defence Forces to increase the role of human resources intelligence outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia. Human resources intelligence enables the collection of additional information in relation to other types of intelligence collection, such as signal intelligence or image intelligence, and thus improves the quality of all intelligence production and prior warnings. Preliminary warnings, I also mention, are extremely important to us in the current situation. The amendments allow the Defence Forces to involve a person in secret cooperation to operate outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia and to pretend to be a structural unit, body or branch of a private legal person. At present, the Defence Forces are only entitled to perform these activities in the International Military Operations Area. As a second amendment, the law is complemented by a regulation on the use of a shadow person. The regulation of the debtor is necessary so that an operational officer should not act under his own name in the act of pretending to be a legal person governed by private law in that undertaking. The success of pretending to be a legal person depends on the possibility of concealing the fact of pretending by using a shadow person. Civil control over the intelligence activities of the Defence Forces must, of course, be guaranteed and guaranteed by official supervision both in the Ministry of Defence and by internal control measures in the Defence Forces. The Minister of Defence must also be informed of the tasks additional to the intelligence of the Defence Forces. With regard to the extension of the area of operations of the Defence Forces, according to the draft submitted by the Government, the rights of the special committee of the security authorities of the Riigikogu will be increased in order to ensure parliamentary supervision of the activities of the Defence Forces. The special committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu has the right to receive information about the intelligence activities of the Defence Forces, to call on persons, to request documents for inspection and, in case of doubt, to contact the investigating authority or the Chancellor of Justice. In short, if this law is passed, scouts will be able to do additional work so that we can all live more safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U49	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U50	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. What is the reason why this bill seeks to change the parliamentary order of the supervision of military intelligence? Until now, this monitoring has been within the competence of the National Defence Committee, and now it is being put in the hands of another committee. What's the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U51	It's not like that. We have a special committee dealing with the surveillance of the Defence Police of Intelligence Agencies, the Information Office. The oversight of military intelligence is a new area. I do not think it makes sense to fragment the supervision of such a sensitive area between the various committees. A special committee has been set up in the Riigikogu for this purpose, whose competence and working methods are laid down with the aim of supervising the bodies holding secret information. In my opinion, what the government has proposed is perfectly reasonable and follows the practice that has always been used in the Riigikogu to supervise intelligence agencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U52	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U53	Thank you. My question, too, concerns parliamentary supervision. I read in your bill that §36 (3), (5), (6) and (7) of the Security Authorities Act will be transposed into law. Paragraph 1 of this section refers to the supervisory tasks of the Security Authority Oversight Commission in relation to the safeguarding of fundamental rights and the like. This cut has been left out for some reason. Is this a technical error, or is it outside the lumbar? My question is: what will this committee monitor if § 36 (1) is deleted?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U54	I can't comment, I don't have the whole text in front of me right now. But my understanding is that the supervision of standard practice is the work of security authorities. If you think that something has been left out, the Commission's work will certainly be able to correct the draft and include it in the draft. But I think it's elementary that security authorities are being controlled. As I said, this will be carried out not only in the Riigikogu but also in the Ministry of Defence and within the framework of internal control. All fundamental rights must be guaranteed and work on these issues effective. If you think something's missing from the bill, we'll check it out. It's possible there's something left out in the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U55	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. On what basis do you classify military intelligence as a security authority? It's not a security authority, it's not on the security authority list.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U57	It's all right: it's not a security authority. However, life has shown that both the Defence Police and the Inspection of the Information Office are exactly what the Commission will do in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U58	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Why don't you take some examples where mistakes have been made so far in carrying out follow-up checks, so that military intelligence needs to be brought under the control of the Special Committee on Security Authority Supervision? What have these minus points and weaknesses been? How does this change result from what shortcomings? Why don't you explain this a little bit further?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U60	As far as I know, there have been no weaknesses or shortcomings in the work of this institution. Our proposal follows very clearly from the Riigikogu's own practice: there is a special committee that needs to do this work. The members of the special committee have been regularly informed of all issues concerning, for example, the Information Office, which is also an authority under the administration of the Ministry of Defence. And we have had very effective long-term cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U61	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, However, when I read the explanatory memorandum, I found one difference in the future regulation of military intelligence regarding the Special Committee on Security Supervision. In fact, it has been said here that unlike the budget of the security authorities, the Riigikogu Security Board does not discuss the budget related to defence intelligence. This activity is financed by the Defence Forces budget. It's understandable, but who's gonna discuss it? Will this be discussed by the National Defence Committee? It doesn't fall into a hole where you can't see it, does it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U63	The supervision of public services is carried out by our own authority. Internal control measures have also been put in place in the Defence Forces. Therefore, in my opinion, it would not be worth fragmenting supervision between the various committees; this work should be carried out by a special committee. Monitoring can be carried out in accordance with the procedures that we have in place, and it does not make sense, in my opinion, to divide this issue between the various committees. Indeed, this budget is within the Defence Forces budget and, of course, its size and division cannot be the subject of any major public debate. This activity is very sensitive and delicate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U64	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U65	Thank you. If this supervision goes from the National Defence Committee to the Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu, do the members of the Security Authorities Supervisory Committee have access to NATO secrets?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U66	As far as I know, we are talking here about the secrets of the Estonian state. This means that since we are also talking here about monitoring the activities of Estonian public authorities, the permits currently available should be enough to do this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U67	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Mr. Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission, please present the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U68	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 9 May before submitting it to the first reading. As representative of the initiator of the bill, Defence Minister Hannes Hanso, Officials of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and Commander of the Defence Intelligence Centre, Lieutenant Colonel Kaupo Rosin took part in the session. The purpose of the draft is to organise the provisions governing the rights of the Defence Forces in relation to intelligence activities. The purpose of the amendments is to enable the Defence Forces to involve persons in secret cooperation for activities outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia and to pretend to be a structural unit, body or branch of a private legal person. Why is that necessary? According to § 37 (2) of the Defence Forces Order Act currently in force, the Defence Forces have the right to perform these operations only in the International Military Operation Area. The amendments address a major deficiency in the capabilities of the Defence Forces, allowing the Defence Forces to increase the role of human resources intelligence and thus perform intelligence tasks much more effectively. It is therefore reasonable to conclude that the bill gives the Defence Forces the right and the opportunity to collect and process more effectively the information necessary for the military defence of Estonia. The National Defence Committee supported the proposal of the Ministry of Defence, but the discussion arose about the amendment proposed by the Ministry of Defence as § 42 (3) of the Order of the Defence Forces Act, according to which, as you have already heard, the supervision of the Defence Forces and the intelligence of the Defence Forces is intended to be entrusted to the Supervisory Committee of the Security Authorities of the Riigikogu. This special committee was created in accordance with the Security Authorities Act and has so far functioned as a body controlling the security authorities of the Republic of Estonia. I would also like to remind you that, according to Article 5 of the Security Authorities Act, the security authorities are the Defence Police and Information Board two agencies. The Commission found that the Defence Forces and its structural unit, i.e. defence intelligence, are not a security authority and therefore the Security Authorities Act does not extend to the Defence Forces. The activities of Defence Forces Intelligence are essentially different from those of security authorities. Defence intelligence doesn't carry out domestic intelligence and counter-intelligence, and he doesn't have a right of surveillance. The purpose of Defence Forces Intelligence is to gather information on military threats necessary for the military defence of the State. Thus, military intelligence focuses in particular on military factors at the operational and tactical levels threatening the country, such as military units of potential aggressor, their size, location, preparedness and capabilities, armaments, possible activities, etc. The purpose of the Defence Forces Intelligence is not specific persons, but factors that pose a military threat to the State as a whole. When we review the control of the Defence Forces, pursuant to § 42 'Coordination and Supervision of Defence Intelligence' paragraph 1 of the Defence Forces Organisation Act, the execution of defence intelligence and the activities of security authorities are coordinated by the Commission referred to in § 10 (1) of the Security Authorities Act, or the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic. What does that mean? This means that the control of the Defence Forces by the government, as the executing institution, is carried out through this committee and is actually there. The control and supervision of the Defence Forces of the Riigikogu during the period of Estonia's regaining independence I stress once again, the National Defence Committee successfully carried out during this period. And, in particular, our committee has done so in the last year. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has also supported us in this work. According to § 18 (2) of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee prepares drafts for discussion in the Riigikogu's plenary session, supervises the exercise of executive state authority in the area of the Ministry of Defence and performs other tasks assigned to it by law or by decision of the Riigikogu. Examples have already been given here. When discussing the draft State Budget Act, the Commission will discuss the budget of the Government of the Ministry of Defence, which has been published in detail, and of course we will meet regularly with representatives of the Defence Forces and Defence Forces Intelligence, as our interests and the need for control dictate. So, once again, according to the law, it is also the responsibility of the National Defence Commission to control the activities of the Defence Forces and Defence Forces Intelligence. In the Commission, the opinion was that we do not need another Commission for this work, which would have been proposed as a committee for the supervision of security authorities. According to § 19 (4) of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, every member of the Riigikogu who has been appointed as a member of the National Defence Committee is subject to a security audit. That's what kapo does. In view of the above, members of the National Defence Commission have access to both national and NATO classified information. This right is not available to members of the Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu. They will be automatically granted access only to state secrets, but they will not be subject to security clearance and this will already potentially pose some risk. They will not be granted access to NATO documents. I have been in command of the Defence Forces for 20 years and I honestly admit to you that during this time, I have never seen a monitoring committee in the Defence Forces. I don't think it's been seen throughout the whole period of independence. That the Riigikogu Security Board has not been in the Defence Forces this year, and that its members do not have access to NATO classified information, was confirmed yesterday by the chairman of this committee at a meeting with the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. As a result of the discussion held at the meeting of the National Defence Committee on 9 May, the following amendment to the draft of the Ministry of Defence was approved by one vote against. According to paragraph 9 of the draft, the proposal of the Minister of Defence concerns § 42 of the Defence Forces Organisation Act, which would be supplemented by paragraph 3, which reads as follows: 'The supervisory committee of the security authorities of the Riigikogu has the rights and obligations laid down in §36 (3) and (5) (7) of the Security Authorities Act for the supervision of the Defence Forces when the Defence Forces interviewes or secretly monitors persons for the purpose of operating outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia, involves a person in secret cooperation, uses a shadow person or pretends to be a structural unit or body of a private legal person or a branch of a company. 'Our proposal is to replace 'the Monitoring Committee on Security Authorities' with 'the Committee on National Defence'. It's the only correction. At the meeting of the committee, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft under discussion be included for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu, and the speaker was appointed as rapporteur. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft and set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 27 May at 15.00. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U69	Thank you, dear waitress. There's a question for you. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U70	Dear waitress, I have a question to ask you about the debate and the decision taken by the Commission at its meeting on 9 May. In the vote, three members of the Reform Party were in favour of making the amendment you mentioned. I am now asking you, as a representative of the Reform Party, whether this is the position of your party, although this is contrary to what is stated in the draft proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U71	You obviously did not hear that the entire National Defence Committee, with the exception of one person, was in favour of this proposal by one Member of the Commission. This is Mart Helme, Vice President of the National Defence Commission. You can ask him if I'm lying or telling the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U72	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 231. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for tabling 231 amendments, including 27 May at 15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U73	Ladies and gentlemen, today's last item, item 16, is the first reading of the draft law on the ground initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please, Minister of Environment Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U74	Hello, Mr President-in-Office. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll help you turn off the lights, but before you do, one more bill. This is a draft law on the ground. The current Groundbreaking Act entered into force on 1 April 2005. It was issued as a whole in a new text, but in its basic solutions it is largely based on a law adopted in 1994. The situation in which the 1994 Law was prepared differed from today in many important aspects. The key issues addressed in the 1994 Law were the ownership of mineral resources, relations with newly created landowners, and the role of the state in the exploration and extraction of mineral resources under democratic rule of law. Now, after ten years, it is time to adopt a new law on the ground, a law whose text is harmonised with other environmental legislation. The purpose of the new Land Underground Act is to ensure the sustainable and economically viable use of the earth and to reduce the environmental disruptions that arise as far as possible. This approach is in line with the general objective of the Environmental Code to reduce environmental degradation associated with human activities. At the same time, in addition to reducing environmental disruptions, there is room for interests competing with environmental considerations, as the existence of human society is inevitably linked to a certain adverse environmental impact. In addition, a number of amendments to the Underground Act have been proposed to help organise and delineate the role of the State in the organisation of the use of the ground. Let me give you a few examples to explain. At present, deposits are divided into deposits of national importance and deposits of local importance. The classification of deposits was intended to provide the state with more effective levers to guide the use of land deposits of national importance, but the other provisions of the law have not provided a meaningful opportunity for this. Regardless of whether an application for a permit is submitted for mineral extraction in a country-wide or local deposit, the operations are the same. Only permit holder is different: Ministry of the Environment or Environmental Board. Some differences may be within the time limits of the authorisation and the appointment of members of the organisation committee, but in principle none of the provisions of that law have any guiding meaning. Abandoning the distribution of deposits means that in the future the ownership of mineral resources such as sand, gravel, curative lake and marine mud, peat and quaternary clay depends on the ownership of the land. A change in the classification of deposits will also ensure clearer work organisation and more effective decision-making speed. From now on, all research and mining permits will be granted by the Environmental Board. This in turn simplifies the authorisation process. The Ministry can devote itself to policy-making, the granting of authorisations remains entirely with the Agency. It is also easier to keep records of the supply of mineral resources in the environmental register. The decision-making power shall be assigned to the Land Administration. The register shall reflect the facts identified in the physical world and it shall be the responsibility of the registrar to verify that the study reports, which form the basis for the entry, are drawn up in accordance with established procedures. In order to make the procedure faster and more transparent, the law also provides for a deadline of one year for deciding on a permit for exploration and extraction. For good reasons, such as the longer- than expected inclusion process, the need for further coordination and other circumstances, the time limit may be extended by the authorisation holder. The General Part of the Environmental Code Act provides for a 90-day time limit for authorisation, but it is not possible to comply with this requirement in the case of exploration and mining permits. This is due to the complexity of the procedure and the inevitable waiting times during the procedure. The requirements for applying for a mining permit will be made somewhat stricter, but certainly more effective in obtaining a full picture. When applying for a permit, a more precise result of the remediation of the extracted land must be recorded in the future, such as the technical and biological conditions of the land, the water regime, the expected cost of the remediation work. At the application stage, a thorough reflection of mining and post-extraction clean-up will help to ensure that, after authorisation, mining operations are immediately started taking into account the needs of proper remediation. It is also the obligation to further analyse the socio-economic impact of the activities in the application for exploration and extraction permits for oil shale, phosphorus and metal raw materials. Such information shall serve as a basis for the impact of mining and the granting of an authorisation for the assessment of the State's interests. The extraction of peat will also be made more thoughtful and targeted. Under the Underground Act, areas where mining is acceptable from both an economic and an ecological point of view are mentioned. In essence, it is a list of locations where peat extraction is located, which contains presumably suitable extraction sites. The extraction of peat is still limited by the annual use rate of peat established by the Government of the Republic and applications for a mining permit are processed in an open procedure. The rules for the use of wells, which have so far been unfortunately abused, will become more effective by setting up ponds for the sole purpose of obtaining wells. In comparison with the current situation, the owner or user of the land will always have to provide the Environmental Board with the information that is made and used by the excavation. In this way, it is possible to control digging under the sign of the pond. The rights of the Environmental Board have also been increased by giving it the possibility to refuse mining and authorisation, where the actual purpose of the activity is mining. An opportunity has been included in the Underground Act as an important relief to build important objects for the state also on deposits. In the absence of an alternative location, buildings of overriding public interest and buildings essential for the performance of defence tasks, as well as utility networks and facilities may be allowed to be erected on the mineral site in the future. In the event that the use of an alternative location would damage another equally significant public good or would be excessively costly, the construction of a building on a mineral resource should be allowed. The Land Underground Act also amends other laws, mostly the Environmental Charges Act. The proposed amendments to the Environmental Charges Act are mostly related to the amendments to the Underground Act, which eliminates the distribution of deposits into deposits of national and local importance, since this distribution is also based on the current Environmental Charges Act, as well as on the distribution of environmental charges between the local budget and the state budget. In the event of the abolition of the current distribution, the distribution of income from environmental charges to the local government unit as set out in the Environmental Charges Act will also be amended. In the case of land assets of national importance, the remuneration will be 25% of the 2016 rate, as has been the case with the current national legislation on deposits. For the remaining mineral resources owned by the State through land ownership, 81% of the 2016 rate is received by the municipality. The mining right fee received by local authorities increases by 3% per year. In addition, this receipts will not be taken into account in the equalisation fund formula as local government revenue, which is why the funds will be received in addition to the sources of cost coverage to compensate for local disruption. As another major amendment, the provisions of the Mining Act will be incorporated into the Underground Act in order to regulate the area as a whole in one law and avoid duplication. The regulation related to the technological process of mining, in particular the safety requirements, was originally included in the Groundbreaking Act. The reason for the development of the Mining Act was the need to move forward faster in mining with the transposition of EU directives on the safety of workers. At present, there is no substantive reason why the regulation on mining safety and mining law should be in separate laws. In short, the new ground law aims to simplify, modernise and harmonise the right to land with the rest of environmental law. Therefore, honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U75	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U76	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Underground law is a law that does not change every year, but once every ten years. It is a great thing that today no one is arguing about the 20 million mining rate, as we discussed last time with the Greens in this Chamber. But as far as this market is concerned, we have two main players: Viru Chemistry Group and Eesti Energia. However, the distribution that exists between them now is not, in my opinion, best established. Viru Chemistry Group has five million tons of oil shale, but the law allows only three and a half tons. My question is: do you think that these rules imposed on large companies are fairly determined today or that something should be done? Viru Chemistry Group would really be able to take advantage of all its possibilities and mine five million tons.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U77	Thanks! Five million can't afford it. As we know, the distribution of oil shale mining rights among companies follows from 2008 when this 20-million-year mining rate was introduced into the law. In fact, four companies had received more than 20 million tonnes of mining permits. There is no very elegant solution here, but even with the draft law on the ground, there are three readings planned, perhaps in the course of the procedure we can still offer solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U78	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I couldn't find that even in the explanatory memorandum there was a geology service. The strategy being prepared for the earth, as far as I can understand, is that this area should be reformed nationally and the current geology centre turned into a geology service. How's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U80	Thanks for the question! You won't even find it in the current law if you study very carefully. This is not the subject of the law of the earth. Which doesn't mean we can't have a plan to set up a geology service, but it doesn't concern the law of the earth. The law in this respect is the law of the Government of the Republic or any other legislation defining the location of that institution in the future. We are now working to establish a geology service as a public office instead of a private limited company, and we are also discussing which ministry it could be in. I think that, in this year's time, we will have clarity and the role of the geology service in dealing with our country's earth resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U81	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have two questions. How do you assess the current state of play from the perspective of our specialists in the field of geology? How much does the law on the ground affect the opportunities of geology specialists in the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U83	Thanks! These specialists are trained on the basis of different curricula at least in two Estonian universities: the University of Tartu on the one hand and the Tallinn University of Technology on the other. I think it is with specialists that they are of all ages and have different qualifications. From the state's point of view, if this geology service is now in place with its functions, we will find out what specialists are needed and how many. I don't see any tragedy in the near future. Certainly, if we form this national geology service, we must also be able to answer the second question: what is the amount of money with which the state will express its will to use the ground. It's easy to do some new institution, I've also said that I can find money for the label of this institution right now, but this service must also be given tasks and money to carry out these tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U84	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As a geologist, you are certainly much better informed about this problem than I am, but I understand that the Estonian Geological Society has sent a letter to the Environment Committee. They refer to § 17 (3) and (4) of the draft and consider that the professional requirement there may have a restrictive effect on graduates of the University of Tartu's Department of Biology. Can you comment on that? What is the problem, and how do we deal with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U86	Thanks! Indeed, not only the Estonian Geological Society, but other associations have sent their proposals to the Committee on the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment. As far as § 17 is concerned, the initiator of the law has maintained that the existing solution of how research should be managed is a good one. The proposal of the Estonian Geology Society was something that could, in principle, read the curricula currently used in higher education institutions. However, if, as my colleague Korb rightly said, we do the law for at least 10 years, then perhaps it is not appropriate to refer to the names of the curricula that will be practiced in Estonian higher education institutions in 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U87	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U88	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As the story went to the frame, to the geologists who are working, I remembered that a few or three years ago the National Audit Office spoke quite a lot about the fact that the marquechesters do little work, we use them little. We don't really know what's going on with our mineral resources, because this review is very poor. How do you think this picture is the same now and do we have to do something about it in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U89	Markmasters are trained in one place, as far as I know, which is Tallinn University of Technology. I'm not very familiar with the subject. I expect that they can be prepared as much as the country needs. In addition to the markchesters who do their daily work, new methods have also emerged, such as aerial control, to get an overview of the mining volumes that can be traced from the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U90	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask for a presentation by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U91	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu has discussed the draft twice: first on 18 April and then on 2 May. On 18 April, when the draft was presented to us by the Minister of the Environment and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the interest groups were involved: Estonian Cities Association, Estonian Association of Rural Governments, Estonian Association of Construction Materials Producers, etc. All of them are well listed in the protocol. I am pleased to note that the Minister has well remembered all the questions and problems raised in the Committee on the Environment. In the past 20 minutes, he reported it all. The Commission also asked questions concerning different education. Of course, we have already received thematic proposals from four stakeholders from both Eesti Energia and the Estonian Geological Society, as well as from the Environmental Law Centre and the VKG. Between first and second readings, the Commission needs to examine and examine all these proposals. The Commission decided by consensus to propose the completion of the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on 2 June 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U92	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Andres Herkel, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U93	Thank you, Mr President. I do have a procedural question. When the week's agenda was approved, Martin Kukk told us in a dotted manner that work had to be done. You don't know where he is now, do you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U94	I can't tell you where he is. He's probably working. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U96	Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? I don't think so. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 213. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 213 amendments, including 2 June at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we have gone through today's agenda. Thank you. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow! [[A voice from the hall.]] Sorry, a very correct and important remark for the verbatim: I will see you today! Closure of the sitting at 2.41 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U97	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Question Time. Incoming check, please! 46 members of the Riigikogu registered their presence in Question Time. The Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science, and Hannes Hanso, Minister of Defence will be in briefing today. As a result of the number of questioners, I will be able to submit an additional question to the debate on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U98	The first question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U99	Good Chairman! Hello, Prime Minister. The government union agreement and the government action programme include a point of pushing for a rental housing market, for which the rental housing programme is also being developed. Last Monday, the Minister of Entrepreneurship, Liisa Oviir, came here to introduce a part of the fund that the state is creating. One third of the money to build new apartments should come from the state, the rest should be covered by the municipalities themselves. In the view of the government, should the rental housing programme really focus solely on the construction of new rental premises? The real problem is that the Law of Obligations Act should be reviewed. When will it be reached, or will it even be planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U100	Thank you. I begin by saying that any state intervention in an area where the private market is predominantly active is justified only if a market failure is identified. Whether and in what nuances there is a market failure, that is what the programme drafted by the Minister for Enterprise must find out. Then the Minister must present this programme to the government and convince the members of the government that there really is a market failure, and also offer possible ways to deal with it, whether it is to build new houses, renovate old houses or something third. It should be noted that although the government is discussing this programme only in the autumn, there has already been plenty of media noise on this subject. Despite the fact that the autumn debate has not yet been held, I dare to predict that there will be no very high probability of building thousands of apartments for public money. I believe that there is no need for this either, but at the same time we will monitor very closely the conclusions of this analysis, whether some specific market failures will be identified. If they are found, the country will probably be able to shoulder part of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U101	The Hatter, please, the question to be more specific!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U102	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I need to enlighten you that the program will start from next year and that 6,000 new apartments will be built in four years. It is absolutely not said that there are unfinished apartments all over Estonia. But in my opinion, we still have a basically right-wing government, because there is an IRL and a Reform Party. A very strong counter argument against this measure is that the state is going to go and toss the economic market. This also raises the question of whether investors can take a country that at some point decides to manipulate the market seriously. Is it reasonable for us to know that we can take quite different measures, whether to supplement and amend the debt law or to place existing rental premises on the market? Why does the government start manipulating the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U103	Thank you. The good news is you don't need to enlighten me. The members of the government, and the Prime Minister in particular, are very well informed. I can tell you that the government has made no decision to establish 6,000 rents for state money. Indeed, the government has committed EUR 2.5 million in state budget resources for next year. But you can calculate for yourself that if this allocated money were to try to build 6,000 apartments, then one apartment would be less than one square metre. The prerequisite for using this money is that we can reach an agreement in the details in the autumn, so that the programme presented by the Minister of Enterprise will indeed address the market failures, not just covering Estonia with a uniform network of state houses. I agree with the assessment that it certainly does not make sense to be instigating the market. I am pleased that you are concerned about whether the right-wing side still has an impact on this issue. I stressed that State intervention in the rental market can only be justified if a market failure has been identified. There is no reason to exclude, in itself, that a market failure may exist, and there are also a number of examples of this market failure. But the fact that you're worried about the right side is very sympathetic in itself. I hope that you will also find a way to promote a much more right-wing worldview on other issues, because the latest tax proposal, which we have just discussed in the government and which was tabled by the Free Party, was on the left and intended to raise the tax rate to 24%. Hopefully, the Free Party will also find out in its worldview, at least a little bit of the right in the background of such a general left-wing background.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U104	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I think our worldview is much more consistent than the populist passages you presented. As far as rental housing is concerned, you have a contradiction here with the Minister of Enterprise. Right now, we'd rather support your position. On 2 May, the Minister of Enterprise responded to an inquiry into peripheralisation and the development of entrepreneurship in regions. We were surprised that he first started talking about building rental homes. What do you think should be going ahead, the promotion of industrial sites and their interconnection with electricity networks, or are we really going to start building rental apartments on the swamp of Võru?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U106	Thank you. In principle, of course, I can agree with you that your worldview has been consistent. Is it understandable, this is already a completely separate question, and whether the worldview is clearly determined, that is already a separate question. But this is not why we came here to discuss the ideological axes of the Free Party, but we have come here to talk about rental houses. Your attitude, which I read out of your question, is in itself, I think, logical. Indeed, if we want rural areas and small towns to develop, it is certainly logical to contribute first and foremost to the creation of jobs on the ground and, once jobs have been created, many companies have also renovated the existing housing fund on their own initiative. I agree with your assessment that there are quite a lot of apartments in the state all over Estonia, by the way, several hundred apartments that can basically be renovated if it is found that there is a large market failure in this area and that there is an urgent need to rent these apartments to someone. These apartments, which are privately owned and which either need renovation or have not been used, are in many parts of Estonia. Indeed, before starting heroically to build new buildings, it is necessary to analyse whether the existing housing fund is certainly inadequate. I can assure you we're doing all this. As has been said, the Minister for Enterprise comes with proposals before the government in the autumn. Then we can discuss what we can do, where exactly there is a market failure, and what is the most sensible way to combat it. I can say that as a compromise on the coalition agreement, we have accepted that the state is dealing with the issue of the rental market, but that the state is building thousands of apartments all over the country, I do not consider likely.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U107	I will conclude by knowing that so many compliments have not been shared in Question Time in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U108	The next question is for Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, we already have allied troops in Estonia and hopefully we will receive news from the Warsaw Summit that there will be more. What chain of command will allies' soldiers obey us, and what is their mandate? In the event of a conflict with a potential enemy, will they immediately engage in battle or will they be subject to another chain of command and have to wait for another order?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U110	Thank you for your question. It is now a rather rare situation where I very clearly share your hope, which concerns the presence of the allies and its growth in our region, here in Estonia and in other Baltic countries, possibly also in Poland. We have worked very hard, systematically and consistently to achieve this goal, and we will do so in the next two months to make our wishes in Warsaw a reality. Here is the key meeting of defence ministers in Brussels in mid-June. Of course, our desire to raise this issue in cooperation with our allies is that we hope that a positive decision will be reached and that there will be an increase in military deterrence in our region, which would be both politically and militarily a convincing argument for any opponent not to come here to poke. In my view, it is self-evident that, in the event of a military attack, Article 5 will automatically be launched, as provided for in NATO agreements, and the units here will participate in a military operation. A very clear distinction must be made here between the presence of the allies in peacetimes when they have the right to self-defense. Everything changes in a war situation. With regard specifically to the allies coming here, first we wait for these decisions. This work, who is subject to whom and how, is now in the "conciliation phase." We are working to ensure that this process takes place as quickly, flexibly and forcefully as possible, so that if there were a military attack against Estonia, the allies would automatically participate in our defence here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U111	Mart Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U112	I didn't really get an answer. Let's imagine that we have a United States battalion here, for example, an outbreak of combat, but this battalion is not directly attacked. Do they have a mandate, then, that they automatically, just like our Defence Forces, can intervene in combat, or do these soldiers stay in barracks and wait until they get a signal, be it from NATO headquarters or the Pentagon, but as long as it doesn't come, they will not actually be involved in protecting our country? Is that a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U113	Thank you. If there is a military attack against Estonia, it is certainly an Article 5 case, which means that the allies are either individually or collectively based on the defence of Estonia or of any country that is a member of NATO and which has been attacked. I don't see any question here. As I said, these agreements will be concluded at the Warsaw Summit. The assumption is that the presence of the allies will increase here, and I very much hope that it will increase. When we talk about the size of the Allied units that could be present in Estonia or in the Baltics, we specifically mean at least a unit the size of a battalion, because it is actually capable of fighting independently. So I don't see any questioning around here. I believe the answer is quite clear: yes, the allies here are participating in the defence of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U114	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U115	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. We have no doubt in NATO Article 5 or in Articles 3 or 4. But Article 5 does not say anything about the military chain of command or mandate of the Allied forces when these bases or units are somewhere. Perhaps to the question that Mart Helme asked, whether there has been a discussion with our allies about the mandate under which they are coming here, or what their behaviour in certain scenarios will be, you do not want to answer in any way. Has there been any talk about whether their behaviour should be automatic, whether they are subject to the Estonian authorities or to any other headquarters? What should be our preferred line of conduct if there are allies here? What is our position?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U116	Thank you. Of course, it's work. I would like to emphasise once again that decisions on the presence of the allies will be taken at the meeting of defence ministers in Brussels in June, and so-called 'at the highest level' will be officially knocked out at the Warsaw Summit in early July. So far, this is a phase of agreement so that we can get the best solutions for us. Understandably, the allies who come here must be prepared to intervene militarily. Chains of command and relationship of command are agreed upon. What is being reacted to depends on the nature of the operations and the presence of NATO Member States in different regions. For example, there is a very good example of what is happening in Ämar, where it is currently an air security mission, which can be turned into an air defence mission if necessary. This is all a matter of agreements for the coming months. But I would like to stress once again that we are talking at least about the battalion that comes to every Baltic country. The goal is for this unit to be able to fight on its own. Of course, in the event of a military attack, their involvement in this conflict under Article 5 will automatically start. I do not think there is any question here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U117	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U118	The next question is from Kadri Samson to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U119	Thank you! Dear Taavi in the garment! Last summer, you were one of the biggest spokespersons for raising excise duties on fuel. Then you stressed that Estonia is not raising excise duties on fuel alone, and Latvia has similar plans. But this has only proved to be partly true. While Estonia increased petrol excise by 10% and diesel excise duty by 14% this year, the corresponding figures in Latvia were 3% and 7%. It is the behaviour of transport companies that is affected by the increase in fuel excise duty. TNS Emor's study shows that 49% of Estonian transport companies have gone to refuel to countries with lower excise duties, either Latvia, Lithuania or Poland, due to the rise in fuel excise duties. In addition, in this same study 36% of transport companies admitted that they had considered this possibility. Are you ready to acknowledge today that the increase in diesel excise duty this year and the planned increase in 2017 and 2018 are also unreasonable, the planned benefits have not been achieved and these increases have clearly been overfished?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U120	First of all, thank you for the compliment! Indeed, I was in charge of this matter a year ago. For more than two years I have been the spokesperson for many decisions that are important to Estonia, and I will do so as best I can. As far as the effects and estimates you have mentioned are concerned, it is true that the increase in excise duty in Latvia has been a little slower, but you are indeed right that the excise duty on fuel has also increased in Latvia. If we look at different types of fuel, we can generally say that the 95 retail prices of petrol in Estonia and Latvia are more or less the same. There are small fluctuations here on different days, but these fluctuations are much smaller or the price difference with Latvia is significantly lower than, for example, the price difference between different filling stations in Tallinn. So it can't be considered very significant. However, you were right when you said that diesel is cheaper in Latvia, including lower wholesale diesel prices, which is important for transport companies engaged in long-distance transport. It is also cheaper in Lithuania than in Estonia, but it is correct to say that it has been cheaper for several years. The increase in excise duty did not change that fact. Many of these companies, whose cars are running around Europe and fueling as they wish in any country on the road, have for years preferred this option to use either Latvia, Lithuania or Poland, where the cheapest is at the moment. It is a matter of course whether Estonia must always strive for the first in this race. Rather, it is important to us that consumption is environmentally sound and that the Estonian tax system is balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U121	Kadri Simson, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U122	Dear Taavi in the garment! Estonia also plans to increase excise duty next year and the following year. Unlike Estonia, Latvia currently lacks this plan. The diesel excise duty in Estonia is already 31.4% higher than the same excise duty in Latvia. After the rise of next year, if Latvia does not increase its excise duty, it will be over 44% higher. Minister of Finance Sven Sester has admitted that if Estonia's immediate neighbours do not increase excise duties on fuel in the next few years, the Estonian government's plan to increase excise duty has not been set in stone and needs to be reviewed. I ask you, if the southern neighbours do not increase the excise duty, is there any hope that the government will give up the planned increase in excise duty for the next few years? What alternatives will the government consider to implement the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U123	Thank you. First of all, let's look at the tax burden on all fuel. The excise duty is really different, the diesel excise duty is about 10 cents higher in Estonia than in Latvia, while the difference is less than 3 cents for petrol. However, the difference in VAT must also be taken into account and that VAT in Latvia is higher than that in Estonia. It can therefore be said that the total effect of taxes is that taxes in Estonia account for about 60% of the final price of diesel and about 55% in Latvia. The question now is whether Estonia should, in future, pay higher taxes on environmentally harmful and health-damaging consumption (for example, tobacco and alcohol excise duty). I think, in principle, we should continue with this direction. We should continue because it will allow those taxes that are harmful to economic development to be lowered, and it will allow more money to be left in the hands of people by means of tax cuts. If we look at the trend of changes in fuel prices, we will see that, even after all these increases in excise duty, fuel in Estonia will be severalty cents cheaper than it was two years ago. So I believe that, in the opinion of consumers too, the increase in excise duty is most logically timed when it takes place in a situation where the price of oil is very low. Of course, it would be more foolish to increase excise duty when the fuel economy is at the top.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U124	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U125	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! I fully understand your thoughts, because the rise in excise duties on fuel is one of the most important political positions of one of the liberal, business-friendly and growth-enhancing parties in their most important task. But when this analysis is completed and it becomes clear whether the increase in fuel excise duty in such a powerful way met your goal or not, are you ready to revise your previous positions? When could this analysis be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U126	Thank you. The excise behaviour must be analysed at all times. It must also be taken into account that cross-border trade takes place both ways. After all, in Estonia, after all the excise increases agreed and approved by Parliament, the fuel is still cheaper than in Finland, for example. This is also the case with cross-border trade. This, of course, must be taken into account. Furthermore, the secret market and tax fraud must be taken into account. This analysis must be continuous and we must be prepared to draw conclusions from this analysis. There is no such information as would suggest that we should fundamentally change excise policy. Can they come in the future? Of course, we cannot rule this out and, of course, we must be flexible when necessary. If we look at this year's budget, the first signs are positive, because it can be said that excise duty receipts have increased by 25.8% compared to last year. However, it is fair to say that this increase was largely due to the purchase of stocks. So it would be premature to draw conclusions, either way, at this point in time. Let's see what the trends are, see what the patterns of consumption are, and we'll decide on it. Your irony, when you were talking about liberal economic policy, was not possible to understand very well. It is precisely as part of liberal economic policy that labour taxes are being lowered, which hinder economic growth. The same income tax that the Free Party recently wanted to raise to 24% has also been lowered over the years. If the state needs to compensate for the reduced tax revenues, this is a completely liberal position, that is to say, over and above the tax on harmful consumption, because there is not only a fiscal element but also a consumption-reducing element. This also applies to the taxation of environmental damage and damage to health.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U127	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U128	Next, Krista Aru asks and she asks the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Education and Science! The Department of Financial Management of Local Authorities of the Ministry of Finance has recommended that, when financing education, go beyond targeted funding, make funding freer and move towards funding mainly distributed on the basis of income tax and distributed through the Equalisation Fund, eliminate the current bounty-based education support in this form and really give the funding to the municipalities themselves. At the same time, the Alliance of Educational Workers is strongly opposed to moving away from targeted funding. What is the position of the Ministry of Education and Research as to whether or not to maintain special purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U130	Thank you. My first point of view is that the Ministry of Finance is a little out of hand, he does not perceive political agreements or preferences. In school education, the preference is the pay of teachers. This is something that cannot be guaranteed in any other way than by prioritising the state. Otherwise, as has happened in Latvia, for example, where the target salary has been lost. The current situation there needs to be checked, and I've already given the task. The description of the direct source last year was quite frightening: how different teachers' salaries are in Latvia and how the lack of targeted purpose prevents the closure of schools, in fact the organisation of the school network! Municipalities tend to keep school homes empty rather than pay salaries and local wage differences even encourage such behaviour. If in the regions wages are lower than in Estonia, this is true, but in Latvia probably even more, there is a temptation to pay teachers less. But we still take teachers' wages as regional investment. There must be a high level of education on the ground, and we have so far succeeded very well. So I am categorically opposed to such views and I hope that the Committee on Culture will not take them seriously next week, even though it is planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U131	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Education and Science! Have you learned about the concerns expressed by the Educational Workers' Association in a letter sent to both the Riigikogu and the Ministry that local authorities may abuse the money for education and not raise teachers' salaries? We have heard here the opinions of representatives of local governments and several mayors. In their view, effective use of money and the organisation of the school network are more possible if education support is still a whole that they can use more effectively themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U133	Regardless of what the Federation of Educational Workers or Municipalities think, I take a firm stand for this is simply such an analytical and experiential view that the purpose of the target is to ensure that the government has set the goal that teachers' salaries across Estonia should be above the Estonian average and correspond to the average salary of higher education staff. The level of education should not depend on the child's place of residence, which has been very successful today. I agree with the unions here. I really don't understand this ambition. The education budget needs to be tilted from concrete to brains. That is what the government has agreed on; it is basically in the coalition agreement as an objective. We do not have the goal of keeping empty schools open, but our aim is to ensure the quality of education in particular, because the population structure has changed a lot compared to the time when the school network developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U134	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U135	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! A fair distribution of education support to municipalities on the basis of coefficients is a very difficult task. It is funny how fair funding is guaranteed, given regional specificities, the organisation of the school network already carried out on the ground and everything else. The last reference to this problem was that the current system is not fair, right here in the Riigikogu the Mayor of Tartu and the representative of the National Audit Office. Is the Ministry going to do something about it in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U136	Thank you. That is what the mayor of Tartu said, and partly what the representative of the National Audit Office said, is controversial. The municipality manager's views seemed to be a set of controversial opinions that could happen. The Auditor General was too, how to say, social. The regional view was clearly underrepresented in his positions. Regional policy is not something you can measure and ensure with uniform efficiency indicators. We must also give priority to the availability of education in the regions and to the use of coefficients, but what exactly are they, this must be looked at first and foremost when the new structure of the municipalities is revealed. I hope that the Riigikogu will adopt the Administrative Reform Act and understand the seriousness of this issue. These coefficients can then also be re-evaluated, as the municipalities are getting bigger. At present, the coefficients are linked to the size of the municipalities. But regional policy must remain. This is something that the National Audit Office must also be reminded of.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U137	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U138	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U139	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! We have learned that the new barges that the Port of Tallinn buys to drive between Saaremaa and the mainland are much longer than the current docks foresee, which means that the docks need to be extended. One metre is expected to cost more or less EUR 1 million and an extension of up to 14 metres is needed. Have you received such information? In addition, ports have been built for euro money, which means that no changes can be made there for a period of time, otherwise it should be paid back. Such a classic question of who is guilty and what to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U140	Thank you. As far as I know, this has not been the subject. I'll definitely check it out as soon as I can. However, there have been questions about ships currently on temporary voyages, as it is not possible to load both vessels 100% in parallel with two different loading and unloading solutions. But, as I said, this is a temporary solution. I've been assured that when new ships arrive on the line, all these questions will be resolved. All boarding and departures will be smooth, just as the ships that were on the line in the meantime, and many of which have now been removed by the operator from shipping between the islands and the mainland.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U141	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U142	Thank you. I understand we're talking about ramps that were supposed to be unsuitable for these new ships or at least need a thorough readjustment. If it appears that they are not suitable and need to be rebuilt, where should the money come from? Is it from the Port of Tallinn or directly from the state budget? What's the plan? If we stop on these ships, I will mention yesterday's news that we have contracts with the ship supplier, but the Estonian side thinks that the supplier does not respect them, but the supplier thinks that everything is kosher. How do you comment on the delay in getting the ships ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U143	First of all, I will say once again that, as far as I know, there is no need to rebuild the quays, but we will examine this claim and then we can either definitively confirm it or disprove it. As far as ferry order agreements are concerned, it is, of course, regrettable that, on the basis of our current information, the Polish shipyard is unable to complete one ship by the deadline. The responsibility, of course, lies primarily with the yard, which has assumed this responsibility. The question of whether a better-prepared agreement and stricter sanctions would have helped to avoid this situation needs, in my opinion, further analysis. After all, the law enforcement authorities of the Republic of Estonia have publicly stated that there is reason to believe that the then members of the board of the Port of Tallinn, who were the carriers and contractors of the ferry construction process, did not act as honest people. There is reason to believe that they had their own interests there. If this is confirmed in a court of law, there may be some logic in the opinion that they put their interests first or left the interests of the State in the background and possible sanctions for breach of the Treaty. Whether this will all be confirmed is a matter of time, but the law enforcement authorities naturally have very serious doubts about this. And I believe that we all have this suspicion here and in public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U144	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U145	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Despite the fact that this corruption incident has come to light, the government has repeatedly confirmed that contracts are very good and there is no threat from this incident. Today we know that there are no sanctions in the agreements and the ships are not getting ready in time. Why were the people lied to? The contracts were on the government table. The second question is that if this one ship and perhaps another ship do not arrive in time, where replacement ships will be taken and how much it will cost the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U146	Thank you. First of all, you give the government everything you can to say. As far as I know, no member of the government has said so. I suggest that you be more specific and careful on these issues. That's one. Secondly, it is not quite correct to claim that there are no sanctions in contracts. The sanctions are there, of course, but the hypothesis that the state or the representatives of the state have now set up is that, at the time, if those who signed this agreement, or the leaders at the time of the Port of Tallinn, would have received stronger sanctions in the contracts by means of negotiations, then there would be a greater chance that both ships would arrive on time. The company's current manager has publicly stated that in any event, by the time that this one ship is expected to be late, a replacement ship will be found and these costs will, of course, be charged to the party responsible for the non-performance of the contract. I am not going to discuss the details of a specific agreement, because neither the government nor I have been involved in the conclusion or evaluation of this agreement, and I do not have the competence to do so, but I can say that it is possible to submit claims for damages as a general principle even if there are significant additional costs of non-compliance. In certain circumstances, it is probably possible to claim damages even if not all these details are included in the contract. But let the people who are real parties in there continue to deal with it. It is up to us to ensure that an additional ship is found on the line by the time the new ship is delayed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U147	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U148	Now Mailis Reps has a question for the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U149	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Education and Science! It is clear that we all like to dream and hope that we are moving vigorously towards a smart Estonia, and education remains our priority. However, if we look closely at the country's budgetary strategy, we must sadly admit that the approach of teachers is not unexpected, given that even the 120% average wage promised in the coalition agreement could somehow be reflected in some of the country's budget strategy lines. Perhaps you will help the teachers who made the appeal, because we have not found this place despite our efforts in the strategy. We also found that the average wage increase is about 5% per year and that the increase in teachers' pay is only covered by 2%. How would you help those who have approached you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U150	Thank you. I'm approached every day by teachers straight and bowling. There is certainly no unexpected approach to me, and I do not even know what you have just spoken of. I'm just trying to guess. When it comes to pay, I say the government has confirmed its support to the agreed 120%. I have repeatedly confirmed that I expect the government to redeem this promise and, of course, I expect the Riigikogu to contribute to it. I expect not so much extra money from the Riigikogu, but reasonable structural choices, one of which you have fought hard personally and which forces education to spend money on real estate rather than wages. In fact, you have fought against two choices. The first of the structural choices is the question of conscience. The next issue in the education budget is the possibility of how much additional money will be allocated by the government. Unfortunately, these structural options have remained very narrow. This money, which is the responsibility of the government, is already largely waged. There is a great deal to be done by the local governments and a little bit by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U151	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U152	Thank you. Good minister! I'd be happy to help. A real annual increase of 2% has been calculated in the country's fiscal strategy. The joint return of teachers' representatives, or the Alliance of Educational Workers, on this issue, was about how this 2% will reach 120% by 2019. But you have already started to talk about the fact that the country's fiscal strategy can be considered to mean that the remaining wage growth, from this 2% to this 120%, should come at the expense of internal resources. You have certainly analysed the economic opportunities in the field of education. Would you like to tell me what are the places where you can narrow down so that you can find the excess of this 2%?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U153	Thank you. If there really is such a sentence, it's a typographical error. It has never been hoped that the teacher's salary can only grow at the expense of internal resources. We still have an agreement on the percentage of education budget in GDP. But, of course, I did not mention structural restructuring for nothing and not for nothing to you. The only line in the state budget that really is growing is the same real estate development in the private sector. You haven't shown any concern about that. Fortunately, the interim compromise agreement puts the brake on it, but this money has also been a reserve for teachers' salaries all along. Then help me! But we're definitely applying for extra money. I can say that in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy, many of the faces expressed great disappointment when education and science were better off than in other areas. I'm afraid that's the case. In my opinion, apart from the cash subsidies that everyone likes, and the financing of the urgent security issue should be the third priority of the RES, if not the first! To be the increase in wisdom and knowledge, expressed financially in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research. You help with that, too!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U154	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U155	Thank you, manager. Minister, I congratulate you for at least fighting for a raise. But as an honest person, you can admit that this point of the coalition agreement will not be fulfilled. There is no way that this salary would grow to 120% of the average. If Estonia's average wage growth is around 5% per year and the country's budgetary strategy provides for 2% of teachers' pay, how is it possible that teachers' wage growth will be higher than the average in the country? How is this 120% achieved? There's nothing left to take from the system, as you admitted. It just needs more resources. Tell the truth that it is not possible to comply with this point of the coalition agreement that teachers' pay will increase to 120% of the average.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U156	At my left ear, the Prime Minister is vexing, and not with me, but with you, how can you even think that we will not keep this promise? That's good to hear. But first of all, 2% really is only one fixed sum, it's not the final sum under any circumstances. Secondly, there are actually profound structural changes in the area of education, at least in the school network. There are additional opportunities for local authorities to grow in their capacity in the future. We cannot say for a long time exactly how much additional money is needed to achieve this 120%, how much money will be released from concrete for brains in cooperation with the municipalities, but the goal is set, the promise is made, and that is what we are working for from different angles. One component here is the undoubtedly additional money that we will come back to in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U157	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U158	The next question is for Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U159	Mr. Secretary of Defense! The topic of the question is unmanned flying machines, which in Estonian have become known as drones with a foreign word. In technical terms, they may now be available to anyone who feels anxious to deal with them, and they can be used for any purpose. Evidently, the issue of establishing rules in this area has arisen, both in the world and in each country individually, and it is something that you can think of. So the question is this: do we have anything coming in Estonia, especially from a parliamentary point of view, whether a legislative initiative or something else, and how is this process going in the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U160	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, drones have become, boldly said, staples. Recently, I went to a fair in Saaremaa where there were a couple of dozen drones sold from the van alongside smoked fish, cotton candy and shoes and dresses. In fact, they were cameras. So it is quite clear that these issues need to be addressed. There was no need for traffic regulations when there were no cars. It is clear today that this set of rules is needed, and I think that the issue of unmanned aerial vehicles is no exception. We call them UAVs, i.e. unmanned aircraft, flying and other regulations are inherently covered by the Aviation Act. This law is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which has also initiated a change to regulate the use of unmanned aircraft. People from both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior are actively involved in this process for understandable reasons. After all, our mission is to secure and protect the objects of the Defence Forces. Our main objective on this issue has been to create the possibility, by law, of restricting the flying of unmanned aircraft over our objects, the Defence Forces and the Defence League. As far as I know, there is a substantive agreement on this subject with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and regulation remains to be adopted. As far as the international side of your question is concerned, it has been resolved differently in each country. Here I owe you a meaningful answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U161	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U162	My point is on this last issue. Are there any indications that a new international convention in this area could be born or that some existing convention, which existed before the drones were invented, is being extended to this area as well? There's no sign or knowledge of it, is there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U163	My specific knowledge of this issue concerns the legislative solutions of the Estonian state, which we are working on, as has already been mentioned. We also have a clear connection with this issue internationally. For example, air security in Ämari. There is a very clear definition of what can happen at Ämari airport and what must not happen. That's where we obviously have the arrangements. But as far as wider international cooperation in this area is concerned, we can reply in writing to you if you have such a desire. This is not part of my brief today, and I cannot answer that question. As I said, it does not belong to the Ministry of Defence as such. It still has a particular bearing on the aviation law and is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U164	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I think this is the defense minister's area, because when drones fly over defense objects, it makes us uneasy. Perhaps you will talk about which countries still have problems with such camera objects and whether there have also been consultations with these countries on this issue so that international law or international conventions can cover this area. Maybe you're also talking about how much these drones have really upset us lately. There's been a lot of talk in the press.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U166	Thank you! Of course, this technological revolution concerning unmanned aerial vehicles has taken place not only in Estonia but also in the rest of the world. I think that in many countries this problem is even more extensive than we have here. From time to time, we have heard and read about the very barely avoided air accidents that could have happened precisely because of the drones that are being uncontrolled anywhere. Defence forces are, of course, concerned and we have a duty to ensure that these sites are guarded. Our Legal Department is actively involved in this by contributing to the work that is being carried out, as I have already said, by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. What is the relationship with other countries on this issue, I cannot say in detail. We consult our partners on a wide range of issues, learn each other and get advice. I cannot rule out that our people have had work-level consultations in this area, but I really cannot confirm that here with facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U167	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U168	Question for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U169	Thank you. Much has been said about the possibility for public authorities or some of their structural units to move to rural areas. Minister Aas invited all ministers and county elders to think along in this direction. However, the reality is quite different. According to the Maritime Administration, for example, the well-built and smoothly functioning Saaremaa navigation labelling service is intended to be eliminated. If navigation signs fail, it is vital to quickly eliminate them in order to avoid drastic consequences. However, when reacting from somewhere far away, there is no operationality, not to mention once again job losses in rural areas. Why do the government's words and actions differ, and instead of reviving rural areas, the structural units there will be eliminated? Don't you think the Saaremaa service should be maintained?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U170	Thank you. I have been assured from the Maritime Administration that there is no plan to liquidate Saaremaa. It is true, however, that, like any public authority, the Maritime Administration must do everything in its power to organise its processes more effectively. Estonia already has one of the most modern maritime labelling options. Let me give you a simple example. Lighthouses that used to work in such a way that man climbed the tower and set the light on, have long since become electronic and, of course, jobs have been lost over time. I think you understand what this logic is all about. While another 15 years ago there were 500 staff members of the Maritime Administration, there are now fewer than 300 staff members. However, the fall has mostly occurred at the head office and also at the Agency's ships. As far as the regeneration of rural areas is concerned, the best revival is, of course, the creation of jobs in rural areas by businesses. It's much more sustainable. But it is also true that we are really looking around at which state institutions can be taken outside of Tallinn in order to place a little shoulder down here as well. I believe you will understand that the number of jobs created in this way is not comparable to the number of jobs created and created by entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U171	Thank you. Henn Põlluaas would probably not be able to ask any more, and the Prime Minister would certainly not be able to answer. Thank you, Taavi Kõivas, thank you, Jürgen Ligi, thank you, Hannes Hanso! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U172	Good fellows, good afternoon. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 15th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. There's no call, so we're gonna do a presence check. 74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present,... Now 75 members are already present and there are no 26 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U173	We've been discussing the bill 200 at our meetings at a speedy pace lately. We also missed this yesterday, so today's first item is the continuation of the 200 second readings of the draft law on administrative reform initiated by the Government of the Republic. We reached the 80th amendment yesterday and then we took a break. The intermission ended yesterday's session. Dear colleagues, the 80th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. I shall put the 80th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. by 27 members of the Riigikogu and 46 against, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 81st amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Is there anything to be said about Amendment 81? Mr. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U174	I'm sorry, but we already wanted to put the 80th proposal to the vote and take it before this break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U175	Thank you. But your intermission partner, Henn Põlluaas, took it yesterday. Amendment 82 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U176	Thank you! Before the amendment is put to the vote, I request a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U177	Thank you. Break ten minutes. I'm sorry! [[Interjection.]] Good fellows, I'll cut the break. Dear colleagues, pursuant to the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, the 82nd amendment cannot be put to the vote. The President was inaccurate here, as practice on amendments has been rather different. So we have examined Amendment 82. The 83rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U178	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 83 before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U179	Thank you. You can really take a break here. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U180	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 83rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 21 members of the Riigikogu and 44 against. The proposal was not supported. 84th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U181	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 84 before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U182	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U183	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 84th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu and 48 votes against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 85th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U184	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 85 before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U185	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U186	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I will put the 85th amendment to the vote; it has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 4 votes to 48, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 86th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U187	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 86 before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U188	Thank you! Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U189	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 86th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 7 votes to 46, with 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 87th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee is to take the substance into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U190	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 87 before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U191	Thank you! Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U192	Dear colleagues, the break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the 87th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the lead committee is to take the substance into account. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu and 42 against, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The 88th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U193	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 88 and before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U194	Thank you! Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U195	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to point out to you and the entire Chamber that at first the Group of the Estonian Free Party tabled 12 amendments on this site, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has completely arbitrarily welded together. They concern the status of the municipality and the selection of the municipality. I would like to ask you to vote on these proposals. If you can't vote 12 times, you can still vote at least once. I would like to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U196	Oh, recess, okay. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U197	Break's over. I shall put to the vote the 88th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. by 6 members of the Riigikogu and 48 against, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 89th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U198	I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 89 before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U199	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U200	Good fellows, recess is over. I shall put to the vote the 89th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. There are 48 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The amendment was supported. The 90th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the lead committee is to take the substance into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U201	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 90 before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U202	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U203	Break's over. I am voting on the 90th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the lead committee is to take the substance into account. Please take a stand and vote. 2 members of the Riigikogu with 48 votes against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 91st amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U204	Thanks, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U205	Thank you. I'm asking for ten minutes of intermission before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U206	Thank you. A ten-minute break to think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U207	Break's over. I shall put to the vote the 93rd amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. For 7 members of the Riigikogu and against 36. The proposal was not supported. 94th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U208	Thank you, Mr President. I have to start complaining again. There are six amendments that the Commission has incorporated into one. We would have gladly voted on these six separately, without any breaks, but if so, it is our will to have the decision-making power of the district and district council. There is no need for a government at these levels. Let us vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U209	Thank you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U210	Thank you. This is such a complicated amendment that I am asking for ten minutes of intermission before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U211	Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U212	Valeri, I'm sorry! Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U213	I'm asking for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U214	Thank you. Amendment 91 can indeed only be voted once. Valeri Korb, shall we vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U215	Good fellows, recess is over. I will put the 91st amendment to the vote, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu and 46 votes against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 92nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U216	Let's vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U217	Thank you. Let's start preparing the vote... Oh, Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U218	I'm still asking for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U219	Got it. Let's vote, and before that, ten minutes of recess. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U220	Good fellows, recess is over. I shall put to the vote the 92nd amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 8 members of the Riigikogu and 42 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 93rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U221	Thank you, Mr President. Since this proposal provides an opportunity to show a very valuable local initiative, we are asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U222	Thank you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U223	Break's over. I shall put to the vote the 94th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 8 members of the Riigikogu and 38 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 95th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. I am sorry, but this proposal cannot be voted on. The 96th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U224	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for this proposal to be voted so that the vote of the councils can reach the councils more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U225	Thank you. Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U226	Thank you. I agree with Mr Herkel that this is a very important amendment concerning the municipal elections. So I'm gonna ask you for a ten-minute break to think about it!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U227	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U228	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U229	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 96 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 9 members of the Riigikogu and 38 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 97th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, in full consideration. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U230	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 97 before the ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U231	Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U232	I shall put to the vote Amendment 97 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. by 40 members of the Riigikogu and 6 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The 98th amendment was tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which was taken into account in substance. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U233	How many minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U234	Ten.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U235	I see. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U236	I shall put to the vote Amendment 98 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has only been taken into account in substance by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 4 members of the Riigikogu and 42 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 99 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, in substance taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U237	Thank you. I would like to ask for this proposal to be voted on and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U238	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U239	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 99, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has only been taken into account in substance by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 1 member of the Riigikogu and 42 against, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 100 is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the Commission has taken the substance into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U240	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U241	Before the vote: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U242	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 100 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and taken into account only in substance by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 2 members of the Riigikogu and 46 votes against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 101 is tabled by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, in substance taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U243	I would like to ask for this proposal to be voted on and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U244	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U245	I shall put to the vote Amendment 101 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and taken into account in substance by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. 4 members of the Riigikogu and 42 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 102 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, taking into account the substance. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U246	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this proposal to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U247	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U248	Henn Pier, please, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U249	I shall put to the vote Amendment 109 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 12 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 30 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 110 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission has failed. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U250	Mr President, I would like to ask you to put to the vote Amendment 110, which gives the Council the opportunity to form electoral districts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U251	Got it. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U252	I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U253	The proposal cannot be recessed, but can be taken before the vote. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U254	This is not a procedural remark about the conduct of the manager. I shall put to the vote Amendment 102 tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which the Commission has only taken into account in substance. Please take a stand and vote. There are 2 members of the Riigikogu in favour and 36 against, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 103 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, partly taken into account. Amendment 104 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, disregarding. Amendment 105 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, disregarding. Amendment 106 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, disregarding. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U255	I ask for this proposal to be voted on, and before this ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U256	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U257	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 106 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 5 members of the Riigikogu in favour and 41 against, with 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Proposal No 107 has been submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has failed. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U258	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 107 and, before that, we will take a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U259	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U260	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 107 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu and 36 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 108 has been tabled by Mr Adams, the lead committee has failed. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U261	I ask you to vote on it and before the vote, ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U262	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U263	Thank you! I am asking you to vote on this too! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U264	What are you asking? [[???Hüüe saalist: 'Hääletada.'???]] Vote. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U265	I shall put to the vote Amendment 108 tabled by Mr Adams, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 9 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 37, no one abstained. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 109 is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U266	I ask for this motion to be voted on, and before that, I ask for a ten-minute break, such a small one.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U267	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U268	Yeah. I would like to mark the vote by the coalition on 101 amendments, so that we vote on Amendment 102 standing up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U269	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U270	I shall put to the vote Amendment 110 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has been rejected by the Commission, but which the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is asking for a vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 6 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 38 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 111th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U271	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this amendment by the Estonian Centre Party and before the vote, ten minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U272	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U273	I shall put to the vote Amendment 111 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 12 members of the Riigikogu and 27 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 112 has been tabled by Mr Adams, the Commission has disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U274	I apologise to Mr Adams, who probably wished to put the amendment to the vote himself, but he probably did not want to take ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U275	How likely?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U276	I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U277	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U278	Thank you, Mr President. I really do not have the fast fingers I need, but I ask you to put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U279	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U280	I shall put to the vote Amendment 112 tabled by Mr Adams, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 7 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 27 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 113 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission has failed. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U281	President-in-Office of the Council. Thank you, Mr Kadri. I have an urgent proposal to put to the vote Amendment 113, which promotes the formation of constituencies in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U282	Before voting on this amendment, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U283	Ten minutes before the vote on the urgent amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U284	I shall put to the vote the 113rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the position of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 32 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 114, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U285	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. I ask that this proposal be put to the vote, which is very remarkable, because it even exceeds the limits of this bill and provides for a list to be made open in municipal elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U286	Thank you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U287	Before the vote, I ask you for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U288	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U289	I am voting on the 114th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 39 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 115, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U290	I would like to ask for the 115th amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U291	I will vote on the 115th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 24 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 116th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U292	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U293	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U294	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U295	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Since you have all obviously noticed that all opposition amendments, as well as some soci amendments, have been voted out by voting on the amendments, I propose that we take a ten-minute break and look calmly at what is left here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U296	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U297	I shall put to the vote the 121st amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the lead committee is to take the substance into account. Please take a stand and vote. 27 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 48 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined and voted through all 121 amendments to the draft law on administrative reform. Thank you. But the Group of the Estonian Free Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft law on administrative reform 200. The Group of the Estonian Central Party has proposed the same and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed the interruption. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. However, since these three groups have proposed that the second reading be suspended, I shall put this proposal to the vote. But before that, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U298	I shall put the 116th amendment to the vote, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 33 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 117th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U299	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U300	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U301	I shall put to the vote the 117th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 32 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 118th amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U302	President-in-Office, I would like to ask that this amendment to the Income Tax Act be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U303	Thank you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U304	Thank you! Before the vote, I ask you for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U305	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U306	I will put to the vote the 118th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 34 against, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 119, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U307	Thank you! I ask for the 119th amendment to be voted and for a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U308	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U309	I shall put 119 amendments to the vote, which have been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 42 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 120, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U310	Thank you! I see that my colleague from the Free Party is not now asking for a vote. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for ten minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U311	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U312	I will put to the vote the 120th amendment, which has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 9 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 53 against, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have come to the last amendment. Amendment 121 has been tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The position of the lead committee is to take the substance into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U313	Please vote on Amendment 121. Before the vote, I shall take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U314	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U315	I vote on the proposal of the Estonian Free Party Group, the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft administrative reform law 200. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 47 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 200 second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U316	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. The second item on today's agenda is the second reading of the Act amending the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu and the Act on the Organisation of Local Government, which was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The presentation will be by Andre Sepp, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U317	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading before you is the draft law amending the Act 181, the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu and the Act on the Organisation of Local Government. As a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I will brief you on the procedure for this draft within the Commission. The draft was initiated by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on 8 February. The first reading took place on 23 March. By the deadline of 7 April, the Group of the Estonian Free Party tabled seven amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the draft before the second reading in three sessions. At its meeting on 11 April, the Commission examined the amendments proposed by the Estonian Free Party Group and, at its meeting on 19 April, the Commission decided to propose two amendments on behalf of the lead committee. At the meeting on 9 May, it was decided to change the date of the second reading and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 17 May. A few words on the amendments. The amendments tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party are based on the desire to establish the principle of incompatibility between the mandates of a member of the Riigikogu and a member of the local government council. In addition to the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu and the Act on the organisation of local government, the Act on the election of a local government council and the Act on the election of the Riigikogu and the Act on the Government of the Republic are requested to amend the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu. All these amendments were linked to one another, namely this issue of incompatibility. The Group of the Estonian Free Party has added to its amendments an explanation that the content of the amendments is to eliminate the possibility of using decoy ducks in such a way that the new acquired mandate would cancel the previous mandate and thus remain incompatible. The amendments are essentially related and included in the list of amendments in accordance with § 102 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act as one amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as I said earlier, also tabled two amendments. According to one proposal, the draft amends the wording of § 17 (4) of the Local Government Organisation Act so that the councils do not need to change the internal legislation of the local government units in order not to pay the Chairman or Deputy Chairman of the Council of the Riigikogu. According to the first sentence of § 17 (4) of the KOKS, the position of the Chairman of the Council or one of the Vice-Chairmen of the Council may be paid on the decision of the Council, but according to the draft, neither the Chairman of the Council nor the Deputy Chairman of the Council shall be paid for the performance of their duties if the person is a member of the Riigikogu during the term of office. However, in order to take account of the requirement laid down in the European Charter of Local Government that a member of the local government's representative body be guaranteed to cover expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties and to make fair financial compensation, the right of a member of the Riigikogu's council to receive compensation for expenses incurred in the performance of the duties of a member of the council is not restricted. Let it be briefly repeated that wages and salaries are not paid, but that work-related expenses are reimbursed. According to the second proposal of the Commission, a member of the Riigikogu can take up the duties of a member of a municipality or city council following the announcement of the results of the elections of the local government council in 2017. The purpose of the proposal is to enable a member of the Riigikogu to take up the duties of a member of the municipal or city council following the regular elections of the 2017 councils, but not until the mandate of the new council begins. The Free Party proposed that the draft law should enter into force on 1 October 2016. This proposal was not supported. The other proposals of the Free Party concerning the inconsistency of the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu and a member of the council were also not supported. Two amendments from the Commission were supported, which are also set out in the second reading explanatory memorandum. The committee also added an addition to the draft explanatory memorandum so that the councils take into account, where possible, the working time of the Riigikogu as set out in the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure. Indeed, it does not appear in the paragraph of the law, but in the explanatory memorandum that local authorities should, if possible, follow it. This addition was the result of the discussions that took place during the first reading in this Chamber. Together with these proposals, it was decided to send the draft to the second reading of the hall. 6 Commission members voted in favour of the amendments and 3 against, with 1 abstention. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda (7 in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention) and that the second reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U318	Thank you, dear waitress. You have at least one question. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U319	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! Could you explain in more detail why the proposals of the Free Party, which basically contained the idea that these two mandates would be incompatible, were rejected?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U320	Thank you. In the Commission's discussions, we have come to the conclusion that this idea would be contrary to the principle of draft 181. The draft 181 makes changes in order to allow simultaneous work in the local council and the Riigikogu. The draft of the Free Party specifically provided for inconsistency. It should also be repeated in a simpler expression to the Chamber that the idea of the Free Party was that if a candidate was elected and elected, the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu would automatically disappear, and vice versa, if the Riigikogu was applied for and elected, the mandate of the local council would disappear. An analogous law exists for our neighbours in Latvians, but at the same time, 18 European countries are allowed to work at the same time, both in the local council and in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U321	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U322	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! This is why the amendments are being proposed in order to solve the problem with some of the alternatives. I am very sad that you are simply following the principle that, as 18 European Union countries behave the same way, we should do the same. We are a small country and we have the opportunity to be more flexible in our search for solutions. I still call on you to be open and to think along. Estonia has a total of 2935 councils. But do you know how many partyers there are? There are six political parties in Parliament. Where is the idea of putting politics in the hands of even fewer people at local level than these barely 3,000 people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U323	Thank you. I am personally convinced of this, and this is confirmed by the Commission's discussions, that this draft actually broadens the possibilities for all of us to exercise both passive and active electoral rights in accordance with the Constitution. I would not like to agree with you that this will significantly reduce this possibility. You yourself said there are 2,900 council members, and the members of the Riigikogu are 101. Even if all members of the Riigikogu were elected to the local government council, the concentration certainly cannot be decisive. Personally, I do not think that it should be feared that two or three Members of Parliament could also enter a council. I'm sure that's what happens in the big city, but I don't think it's evil. After all, the voter decides all of this by giving his vote. This change, if the elected person continues to work in the Riigikogu and also works in the council or makes the choice in favour of one or the other, will also make the principle clearer to the voter. This is a much clearer option than the current decoy duck system, which creates some confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U324	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U325	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Of course, this new solution is clearer and better than the existing one. But what I am interested in is how seriously the Commission discussed the separation of powers and the outcome. Were there any more academic discussions? It is precisely on this issue of separation of powers that a number of master's and academic works have been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U326	Thank you. We didn't go very deep. I have also worked through articles that have been written on this subject. It's the same as the Chancellors' opinions. We have the opinion of one of the Chancellors of Justice, who thinks it is a breach of the Constitution, and the opinion of two Chancellors of Justice, who do not think it is an insult. We are talking about the same section of the Constitution that says that at the same time there can be no 'executive office'. As a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I can express the Commission's conviction that the office of a member of the Council cannot be assimilated to one of the executive agencies. That is the main contradiction on which the discussion is taking place. Things at local council level may seem to be characteristic of the executive; they are clearly self-governing tasks: the distribution of social benefits, snow harvesting, etc. However, neither a member of the local government council will enter into any agreement, negotiate, nor take responsibility. I don't think that's a contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U327	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U328	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good speaker! When this administrative reform, which the second reading of the draft law has just ended here, comes true, the number of municipalities in Estonia is likely to fall to 70. As a result, the number of council members will decrease by about 1000, which should result in a significant improvement in the competence of the new councils. It is unclear why more members of the Riigikogu are needed there. Don't you trust the local people? Or is it in the background that somebody thinks the electoral alliances have gotten too much power and should "do" them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U329	Thank you. I daresay there's no other option here. The Constitution should apply the same to all of us. There must be the right to apply, the right to be elected and the right to exercise the passive right to vote. That's one. Second. It is in itself a good thing that the capacity of local authorities is increasing as a result of administrative reform and the competence of councils is improving. I tried to get information from the Election Commission on how many alternates have come to current councils. Turns out they don't collect statistics on it. But at local councils, there's an amazing exchange of alternates. We hope that administrative reform will improve the quality of the work of the council member and the responsibility for real work. Thirdly, I am talking about political fear that maybe now politicians will come and change everything. I myself have worked in the local government for 15 years, I have applied for election union and party list. In both cases, both at election union and party level, we conducted a policy in this municipality, or we decided on the organisation of the lives of the local people. I would not give priority to political party policy in resolving issues of local life. This might seem like a more sensitive question in this Chamber than in the seats.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U330	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U331	Thank you. To tell you the truth, I am surprised that you believe that this bill does not conflict with the Constitution. At the same time, we know that both the Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court have already identified the interference with § 154 of the Constitution, which speaks of the principle of autonomy of the local government, § 4, which lays down the principle of separation and balance of powers, and § 63, which lays down the principle of incompatibility of agencies. If it is simply the view that there is no barrage, why did you not involve the legal scientists, specialists and the Chancellor of Justice in the discussions so that a clear and reasoned position could be reached, whether or not this is an obstacle? The opinion alone is not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U332	Thank you. You referred to the Supreme Court decision of 14 October 2005. If you read the judgment together with the resolution, it becomes clear that the judgment talks about possible interferences and how the Supreme Court came to this conclusion, but the resolution does not refer to the interference, but rather to the fact that at that time, 2005, local elections were coming, and the Supreme Court believes that the notice period would have been too short for voters and therefore the Supreme Court did not support this amendment. The Supreme Court's decision cannot be read out as if there was a contradiction with the Constitution. Indeed, there is the opinion of Allar Jõks, where he has found that there is this contradiction, but the other Chancellors of Justice have not confirmed it. When the Committee on Constitutional Affairs initiated this draft on the basis of a coalition agreement, the Chancellor of Justice was consulted and confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U333	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U334	Thank you. Dear waitress, I wonder if you discussed in the committee how a member of the Riigikogu, who receives a mandate from, for example, some of the most distant regions, can still reconcile these two work, so that neither suffers. It seems to me that if we adopt this law in this way, we will do a bit of cheating on voters. People are giving a vote to someone who can give up this mandate. For example, 79 members of Tallinn Council received a mandate from 32 members of the Riigikogu. The center party had 46 out of 20, the IRL had 16 out of 8, the sexes had six out of four. Aren't we doing a little cheating? In fact, those people who have not received a mandate will still go to the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U335	Thank you. No, I'm not. After all, a person has the constitutional right to waive his mandate. A person who is not a member of the Riigikogu and turns out to be elected may also give up. That's just like cheating, this proportion isn't any different here. But now about how people in the remote region can participate in the work of the Riigikogu. For example, in Finland, all municipal councils are held one day a week. We discussed this issue and found that we cannot restrict the autonomy of local governments and write it into law. The text of the draft explanatory memorandum therefore remained so that, where possible, such a working schedule could be taken into account. This is really only possible, but we thought it was important to mention it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U336	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U337	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, How do you comment on the fact that a member of the Riigikogu is in a kind of preferential position when selecting local government councils, because he can use more resources in the election campaign than a local activist or a member of the local electoral union, for example? A member of the Riigikogu has the possibility to use the Riigikogu's expenses and is more likely to receive most of the money allocated to political parties for his election campaign. Does this not create an unequal situation between a member of the Riigikogu applying for local council and a local activist?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U338	Thank you. As far as I know, the use of Riigikogu cost benefits is also clearly regulated by law. Each one prepares his or her campaign on the basis of his or her own possibilities. I do not see any legal or quasi-legal possibilities of using the money you have mentioned, unless you abuse it. If this is the case, the law enforcement authorities will have to be informed. But I really don't see any advantage here. At the same time, there was indeed an application in free Estonia until 2005 and from there has been an application as a decoy duck.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U339	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U340	It is known to be the legitimization of decoy ducks, or the law of sitting in two chairs, or to carry out this idea in the coalition agreement. I very much want to know what kind of coalition party took the initiative of this coalition agreement, or what kind of party is the most powerful advocate of this idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U341	Thank you. This issue was not discussed in the Commission, and I personally did not participate in the negotiation process, but I do trust this consensual outcome. The Commission was not impressed, and I too have not been given the impression that this would be more of a coalition party than the wish of another or third party. It's a joint arrangement. I would call it restoring the situation in 2005.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U342	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U343	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'm very confused. You think that for the sake of a member of the Riigikogu, the municipality should reorganize all of its work so that the member of the Riigikogu can attend the meetings of the council. That doesn't make any sense. We should take the people on the ground first and foremost into account. Anyway, the reputation of a member of the Riigikogu is poor, and I think it would be a shame to go to such a press. Secondly, how do you guarantee that, if a member of the Riigikogu is, suppose, in the council, the result will not increase the black money passing through the treasury, i.e. that the roof money will have much more impact on local life than it is now? How do you guarantee that the rooftop money will not increase, but rather decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U344	Thank you. Indeed, as you pointed out, the local council has the right to decide on the day and time of its meeting. The explanatory memorandum states that the working hours of the Riigikogu can be taken into account, but do not have to be taken into account. The municipality has autonomy and so it was, is and will be. A local person's voice is the most important thing there. As regards roofing money, which is actually part of the state budget, its regulation is the subject of this hall. You called that money black. It's just a matter of whether it's black or it looks black. It is up to the Riigikogu to decide how it deals with the budget. However, it has also been possible to read that roofing money is one of the most targeted funds, which clearly shows where the money has gone. The practice of a democratic Europe also supports this kind of action when the ambassador sees the need to develop something in his region. But first of all, it is up to the Riigikogu to decide how this happens. For some reason, I do not think that this is going to have a significant impact, because we have had this kind of regional investment money from the start. This money has been called local government investments, etc. There will always be disputes about the distribution of investment money, then it will take place at the level of local governments, at the level of the Riigikogu or at local level.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U345	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U346	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Like you, I have worked for a long time as a member of the local government council, vice-chairman and chairman. Now I've been in the Riigikogu for a year. I must confirm that if you sit in two of these chairs, something will suffer, whether you cannot do the work of the council properly or if you have to miss the meetings of the Riigikogu. Did the Commission discuss how these things could be shared so that it could work in two places between 300 kilometres? What's the solution here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U347	Thank you. The first solution is the choice of the chosen citizen himself or herself, which he or she chooses whether he or she wants to do one or the other. The Commission did not discuss a specific route, speed, time or means of transport that should be moved from one place to another. Above all, this is a question of opportunity. I believe that it is possible to work in both places with good planning. The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu also does not allow sessions to be held on five working days or seven days of the week. Thus, such a theoretical possibility exists in itself in the law. But you can always ask me how I'm gonna get there when the council meeting starts on Wednesday at 3:00. That's when you have to make a choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U348	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U349	Good manager and waitress! As a result of this reform, the 1000 active people, the Commissioner, will be deprived of their jobs, will be left in 2000. If all of us 101 go to the councils, there will be another 101, so some 1,900 local people will remain in that office. But here's my question. Remind us of what our good colleague, Kalle Laane, asked for in the Commission, and what came up there. The way in which Saaremaa can work for the council. Do you remember that? Tell the others.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U350	Thank you. Good colleague, you must probably take this opportunity to perform on the speaker's desk and talk about it here. I do not consider it necessary to spend the time of members of the Riigikogu on this topic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U351	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U352	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, In itself, it is a grateful idea that the members of the Riigikogu can participate in the work of the local council, but for this it does not have to be part of the council. For example, I am currently a member of the Economic Commission of Põlva Vallavolikogu and I am very well able to contribute to the life of the municipality. I am particularly concerned that we are reducing the opportunities for some active people to participate in local politics. As we know, competition will intensify as the administrative reform will be implemented. In that sense, the time is not right. I think you should take this opportunity and be on committees, but there is no need to push into the council. I don't know what I'm asking, but what I'm saying is maybe this isn't the time to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U353	Thank you. Yes, this draft law 181 gives all the possibilities: you can work in the committee, but once you have received a mandate, you can work on the council, you can give up the work of the council, you can give up both jobs or you can give up the work of the Riigikogu. And, ladies and gentlemen, in order to get to the council in the first place, you must apply and gain the trust of the people in your region.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U354	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U355	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, I really think that when we talk everywhere, people decide and decide... Suddenly, the chairman calls the narrators to order, for soon no one will hear the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U356	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U357	Local people must be able to choose and make their own decisions. There has also been talk of a direct presidential election. Then why are we afraid of this law? If this law is passed, or the members of the Riigikogu will not automatically sit in councils, they will apply as they may now stand. In fact, it's more like cheating on people than running, but not starting work on the council. Having applied to the council myself, I've always told people that I can't be a member of the council, but I support the list with my candidacy. Right now, I have a chance to run and actually work. Do you overconfirm that those members of the Riigikogu who are running cannot be councillors or members of city and parish government, and obviously they will not be paid for this work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U358	Thank you for your question. That is exactly how Bill 181 states that they will not be paid for this work, but will be compensated if they arise. Again, by repeating your question and my previous answer, I say that in order to do this job, you must first apply and gain people's trust. It will then be possible to work for the region as well as for the country in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U359	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U360	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! My penguin in the Riigikogu loves to quote classics from this remote control. Following his example, I, too, have chosen the words of a classic at the beginning of today's speech: 'In the Estonian Constitution, the principle of separation of powers is one of the most central principles, which is not the most common in Europe. The Constitution expressly prohibits persons from participating simultaneously in the exercise of executive and legislative power. The Constitution does not provide for this principle in the area of local governments, but according to the meaning and logic of the Constitution, this reconciliation should not be accepted. [---] In addition to the legal issue, practical issues are undoubtedly related to this. [---] I have been a member of the Tallinn City Council and a member of the Riigikogu for six years at the same time, and I have to say in my experience that it can be reconciled, but it is an extremely difficult job. [---] The specifics of the Riigikogu and the local government are relatively different, even as a result of the fact that the local governments of Estonia are relatively independent compared to the local governments of another state, which is why it is not good in itself if one whole directly affects the activities of the other. [---] No political party should have a bench so short that it has to overload some politicians on both sides. ' I'm not gonna bully you with the memory play question, who's the author of the quote. That is what our esteemed colleague Mart Nutt said in 2005. I think that, when you read the verbatim, you can find some of these expressions in the mouth of other current colleagues who have been in the Riigikogu before 2005, even in the mouth of the Chairman of the Riigikogu and many others. It is therefore particularly embarrassing that many ladies and gentlemen from coalition parties have now submitted themselves to the dictatorship of political technologists in their party and are acting in accordance with it, not their consciences. It's sad. As a representative of the opposition, I can only say that, ladies and gentlemen, please decide this question as you actually mean, not as the Secretary-General has told you. Indeed, the worst thing about adopting this bill as a law can be one thing: that there is still the current procedure, where decoy ducks are possible, and members of the Riigikogu are running as decoy ducks, but they will not work on councils. I think, good people, you agree with me that this has made Estonian politics very, very hypocritical and the use of decoy ducks is public deception of voters. But this cannot justify the adoption of a bill as a law. There's a much better way. The Free Party has proposed this, but as has often happened in opposition drafts, it has not gained any understanding and, I dare say, not even sufficient attention. We have offered that a member of the Riigikogu could apply for a local council, but if elected, he should waive the mandate of the Riigikogu. The new mandate cancels the previous two mandates at different levels and cannot sit in two chairs at the same time. It has already been pointed out today that, as a result of administrative reform, decisions affecting local power and local life go even further than they are now. The number of council members is decreasing. It is a pity that councils are a sort of democracy school, where they learn to debate respectfully and adhere to the rule. Once again, I would like to remind you of the idea of Jaanus Männik, the Mayor of Surju parish, that the desire to sit at the same time in the Riigikogu, the local council, the council of the state company, the board of the sports association and elsewhere is expressed nothing more than a morbid desire for power, a desire for power monopoly. Here at Toompea, you may feel like a superhuman who will descend from time to time from merciful Toompea and give the locals light. I've been friends for 20 years at Haapsalu City Council and I remember a lot of times. I remember that in the mid-1990s, the members of the Riigikogu helped in the sense that they supported the'reglement' and the introduction of a culture of debate. The locals have always dealt with substantive issues on their own. If, in the opinion of the parties, their bench is currently not long enough and there are not enough candidates for local councils without the members of the parliament, then in fact, there are plenty of community leaders in Estonia, the patriots of the home country, local electoral alliances in the common interest. Believe me, they're doing great at making decisions about local matters. It has been praised that sitting in two chairs is good in the sense that a member of the Riigikogu will then be better informed about the reality. Come on, in this information age! This is ridiculous, and it's not true. So under the dome, we're not sitting here on Toompea, so we don't know what's going on on the ground if we don't belong to the local council. I do not think that if colleagues Jaanus Karilaid, Lauri Luik and perhaps Andres Ammas were to sit in the next Haapsalu City Council or also in the Ridala Vallavoli Council, if the voters gave us a mandate, the quality of the work of these councils would be so greatly improved that it would be necessary to amend the law. It's not like that. The popular wisdom of Estonia says that there are two lawyers and three opinions, and indeed there are. Lawyers have received support from both advocates and opponents of two chairs. In my opinion, however, it could be based on an executive publication of the Estonian Constitution, according to which the reconciliation of mandates leads to a conflict of interest and is contrary to the principle of separation of powers. After all, it is simply not practical or sensible to reconcile two such responsibilities. If you really give the maximum of yourself here in the Riigikogu, there may not be enough time or energy left to work on the council. Indeed, the Free Party does not believe that local politics should consist in the fight between party soldiers. On the ground, there is an important school, road maintenance and social services. Whether the street hole is patched by a blue, yellow or red party is not very important. The Group of the Estonian Free Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U361	Thank you. Does Jaanus Karilaidi have a line or a procedural question? A microphone for Jaanus Karilaid, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U362	Thank you. Thank you also to my colleague for mentioning my name. I support this bill, but thank Andres for his collective self-criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U363	Thank you. The reply is said and we will proceed with the negotiations. Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U364	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today's situation, where the members of the Riigikogu are not allowed to belong to local councils, does not, in my opinion, contribute in any way to the development of local governments or the state. The abolition of this pointless restriction and the restoration of this situation, which was years ago, would, in my opinion, significantly increase both levels. Since both the local council and the Riigikogu are at the so-called legislative level, I see no problem in belonging to both bodies at the same time, in my opinion, it would rather be useful if the members of the Riigikogu associated more with the local government and state. The Constitution states that a member of the Riigikogu must not be in any other state office, but there is no contradiction here, because a member of the council is not a state official. If members of the Riigikogu could still be a member of the council, as they had previously been able to do, the local competence and the quality of the work would undoubtedly increase. Today, if we can observe council meetings without voting rights, there can be no substantive debate, debate or argument with the participation of the members of the Riigikogu, which, in my opinion, is the basis for wise decisions. However, if a member of the Riigikogu uses the know-how he has obtained while working in parliamentary committees, working groups and elsewhere, if he brings it to the local council, there is nothing wrong with it, it will still be useful. On the contrary, if a member of the Riigikogu is able to participate in substantive discussions and make decisions on the ground and collect information, it will be much easier for him to establish laws because, we are honest, many of the drafts directly concern local governments. Why should we, in a situation where the number of good people who are willing to apply for local councils is already limited, make further restrictions? Let's not just look at the city of Tallinn as a municipality, but also look at the municipality of Nõva, for example, where some time ago the council also received 0 votes. I am convinced that if we allow the members of the Riigikogu to be members of local councils again, political activity will increase in places and there will be no talk of decoy ducks and of fooling voters. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Allowing members of the Riigikogu to local councils is only to the benefit of development, which is our main objective. Years ago, this thing worked really well, so why shouldn't it work now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U365	Thank you. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U366	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember 2004 when the delegation from the Riigikogu went to the French National Assembly. There they were interested in us and asked whether it was the same in Estonia that there was a local government coming to Parliament. France is known to have four levels of government. Those of us like me who have reached the Riigikogu, but who do not have legal education, are self-study in this work. However, we have gained some experience in legislation. I have a personal experience with Pärnu City Council. This year it will be 20 years since I was first elected there, but there have been years when I couldn't be there, because from 2005 until now there was a limit on it, but I still became a member of the committees. I have also been a parish elder and visited several council meetings in the county to observe and listen. I can say that this law, as Lauri Luikki has just mentioned here, broadens the local government council's picture of both county and state, contributes to the knowledge of laws, helps to better understand subcurrents and the fights of political orientations, to predict where Estonia is going, and to make decisions, not afterwards, but carefully, in terms of administrative reform, for example. It is not much to fear that if those who have been elected to councils are at the same time in the Riigikogu, the risk of corruption will increase. It's governed by other laws. We all know more or less what the content of the anti-corruption law is. There has been one case in Pärnu County when a member of the Riigikogu was also the chairman of the Pärnu Harbour Council and also a member of the City Council. Then he took advantage of the possibility that he was a member of the Riigikogu and contributed to the amendment of the Port Act, which resulted in the town of Pärnu losing ownership of the Port of Pärnu. Perhaps Pärnu is the only port on the Baltic Sea that belongs not to the municipality but to a private company. But all of this could have happened without the fact that this person was a council member because there were other mechanisms. Why did it happen that time? It just did. Maybe because the council didn't have any powers that wanted legal clarity. I would also say that right now, in the context of administrative reform, it is a very good time for this draft to be dealt with. I like this debate because we look at the content of the local government and also look at the contents of the Riigikogu. I dare point out that these problems are entirely elsewhere, not that they are part of the Riigikogu and the Council at the same time, but rather that there are parallel worlds: one world is what is here on Toompea, in the former Toompea prison, and the other is the so-called "real world' in which natives, or true rural people, or village people and urban people live. Taking part in life simply through the media or sometimes by walking through a village or city does not create the right picture of how people actually live there. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U367	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U368	The observation of a council meeting also does not give a sense of the deep problems that a municipal council encounters. The problem is that when a person is re-elected, the law allows him to be a member of the Riigikogu and also a councilman for life. There's a problem that roots grow down. In 1866, when Emperor Alexander published the ukase of the rural municipality reform in the Baltic States, he provided that the municipal councils should be elected each year and one third of the composition must be renewed. Perhaps parish councils, city councils and the Riigikogu can be refreshed by the same censorship as in the case of the President, that only two terms of office can be applied for, and if you have lived a real life among real people, you can apply again after the break. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U369	Thank you, dear waitress. This emperor, of course, had his own roots. Igor Gräzin, please! 5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U370	Ladies and gentlemen, party veterans and free parties! I'm going to protect you now, you're in this hall right now. I claim that you have guaranteed human rights in the Republic of Estonia, which were temporarily taken away from you, but now you will have them back. I looked at my house, the one who lives there. Sales manager, basketball player, student couple, reka driver, two pensioners, a journalist from Crimea, a tourist agent, a construction man and a self-employed plumber, these are my neighbors. What separates us from each other? Besides having a different color and a different language in one case, there is another thing that separates us, making me the exception. Namely, among them I am the only one who cannot belong to Tallinn City Council. Everyone else can, I can't. Why? I think you, the members of the Free Party and your good friends there, will understand now that you are another kind. You were the first variety at the time that you were not in the Riigikogu, because then you were free-thinkers, represented Estonian society and community, everything-all beautiful, but now you have sold yourself for expenses and pay, you are not sure what politicians do. With this, your place in society has been defined, your place in the prison hierarchy would be either under the bunk or by the bunk, you're just not human anymore. Look, it's a little weird in this sense that everyone has the right to choose and be elected if he's not a politician. I'm asking why. I know where it comes from. By the way, I fought against this restriction in the Tallinn City Council when I was there, and here as much as I could. Look, it didn't go so long, and I finally see that this absolutely undemocratic and absurd law maybe even be abolished. What was the problem here? Let's put aside the separation of powers, that's not the point. We could talk about the separation of powers in the context of the Riigikogu and the local government union, but there is no discussion of the local government union here. The municipality is not a state extension, the municipality is its own government. What does the municipality do? Asphalt, pipes, the most risky place is maybe public procurement, but today even not so much, because it is 2016 and not 2006. What else is there to do? Whether to paint the house or not to paint, whether to build a church there or in there, make it or another plan. To be honest, I have a common interest with the Negro basketball player and the Russian war veteran neighbors: we want to have a good place to live in our house, we want to be good neighbors to each other, and we want to have our common interest, that is, that is, that is, that the hole is closed, represented by a real and real person. Everyone can be honest and real people and know how asphalt is patched unless they are politicians. We have 101 people in the country who have been taken away from an elementary employee and, apparently, the right of the prisoner to be elected somewhere. By the way, it's much worse, frankly than you think. I am very grateful to the Free Party for helping and supporting me in this way. But, you know, I'll tell you another bad news. You guys think this thing's gonna go away now. No, I'm not! Even if one of you decides not to apply or not to come here next time, this stigma of 'politik' will stick to you and you'll go to the grave with it. No one ever wants to see you again or anywhere. I don't want to tell you why this has happened, but it has happened. If you want to sink a question, say it's a political question. If you're gonna say something bad about a person, say he's a politician. If you want to kill a man morally, tell him that he belongs to party X. I think that this approach to citizens' rights is fundamentally wrong. A country with 101 people who do not know why their basic political right has been taken away cannot be free. Today we decide whether all citizens of the Republic of Estonia have equal rights or have equal rights for all citizens of the Republic of Estonia, except 101. Those 101 are us in this hall. In short, let's vote for freedom! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U371	Hatter, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U372	Good vice chairman! Good ambassadors! I must say that time has changed, we have come to a new century, and people's attitudes have changed. There was talk about the reputation of the Riigikogu and the member of the Riigikogu. That's why the Free Party came here to ask what's wrong with this reputation. Something's gone wrong here, and we can't let it go on. I would like to point out again that before the draft discussed in the previous item is adopted as a law, there will be 2935 seats on the councils, but if the administrative reform is implemented, the number of Commissioners will decrease by 1000, that is, the right of local people and the opportunity to decide on their daily lives will be reduced. We have already done different things to reduce people's motivation to live here in Estonia. Now we are also losing the opportunity for more people to be able to take part in the decision-making of local life, because once again these members of the Riigikogu come and dictate. It was said here that everyone should be equal. But it's not. There's still someone a little higher than the others. I have pointed out that there are still 2,000 places in the councils. But look, there are six political parties represented here. There are 50992 political party members on these six political parties. Why, then, do we need political party members and why mass parties? In addition, 3617 people were nominated for election alliances in the last local elections. We members of the Riigikogu have free weeks, we have free Fridays. So why aren't we working, not on the ground, not giving information? Someone's not doing a job here. Indeed, the political decision is how to solve the subject of decoy ducks. This is not a constitutional issue, in terms of how to resolve it. The constitutional question, as I understand it, is that a person must not be deprived of the right to stand as a candidate. Our own proposal does not take the right to stand as a candidate, but rather gives us the right, freedom and responsibility. We assume that we are also discussing this. Administrative reform increases the power of political parties, which is inevitable. This means, as we pointed out in our questions, that the power of money will decide even more when a member of the Riigikogu is also at the local government council. We were talking about roofing money here. It is good, yes, if the roof has been repaired, but on the other hand, the municipality feels that it is once again dependent, it must sit at the minister's door so that it can speak of the need to fix the roads. Now they'd still be addicted to this one fellowship, such as me, if I was a member of the people of Otepää in my municipality. At one point it is delighted that at the next moment there will be an understanding that there will be no independence but reliance on one member of the Riigikogu. Practical work also takes time. There is a huge difference between being part of a coalition or opposition. It's easy for a coalition member. What do we see in the Riigikogu today? The government representative is expected to prepare the draft together with his advisor, which will be discussed once in the political group, but I do not know whether it will be read in substance. I don't think so. The opposition is in a completely different situation. He'll have to do more work, and if he's on two chairs at a time, he'll be punished twice. This isn't right! Indeed, it is also impossible to accept that, for the sake of the MP, the municipal council should start to reorganize its work, as the ambassador would be able to attend the meetings of the council only on Fridays or Thursday nights, for example. Things are discussed not only at council meetings, but also at committees. It is, of course, a pleasure that there are people who, through the work of the Commission, are actively involved in the work of the council today. My concern is that we should not increase the power of the political party leadership, because it is already large. Power is concentrated in fewer and fewer people, and that is not good. A free party can still be classified among people. We have been in the Riigikogu for a year, but you can see that we have not changed much. We have become more productive, conscious and active in political engagement, but we have remained on the level that the human soul is inside. That is also the content of our proposals: the soul must remain, the opportunity must remain for a much greater number of people than those in this Chamber. Let's take a look around. How many people are interested in this? Is this one-third interest in this room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U373	5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U374	Thank you. George Adams, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U375	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am talking about two of these issues as if they are a little further away, but they are still connected. First of all, I am talking about the theory and practice of separation of powers and, secondly, about the nature and consequences of the rules used in the forthcoming local elections. The principle of separation of powers is likely to be learned by every lawyer in his first year. As it is reported, it is clearly mysticized from both its content and its practical application. I have gotten my education, if I have it at all, rather by self-study, which means I have not listened to lectures on this subject, but I have read quite a few original sources. The concept of separation of powers comes from the famous book 'The Spirit of Laws' by French political thinker Charles de Montesquieu. In one of its chapters, Montesquieu describes the system of power that existed in England during his lifetime, but suddenly he deviates from the subject and presents a discussion based not on English examples at all, but rather on the French system and his own personal experience. He says that a country where it is possible for the same person to give the law, apply the law and then judge the citizens, whether under the same law or in compliance with it, is not a proper state. In his opinion, these things should be done in such a way that the same person is not in all three roles. It is a well-reasoning principle in itself, but in Europe, countries have been doing quite well, also acting completely contrary to this principle. For example, in the Republic of Estonia until 1940 the principle of separation of powers had been applied in such a way that members of the Government of the Republic could at the same time also be members of the Riigikogu. When a member of the Riigikogu became a minister, it did not mean that he should have left the Riigikogu, but he did both jobs. He came to the Riigikogu meetings, gave speeches and voted and was considered perfectly normal. In our neighbouring country, Latvia, this principle still applies, only with the difference that, as the ministerial workload is now much higher, the ministers, who have the mandate of the team, do not work there themselves, but have the opportunity to send their own replacement to the semi, who has not been elected, but who can make speeches and vote on behalf of the minister. In Latvia, no one believes that this would be a violation of the principle of separation of powers. I think that if we were not so narrow about this, the Minister of Justice could be a member of the Riigikogu, if it were to add up in time and order. Even if the judges currently in office in Estonia could also be MEPs, the quality of Parliament's work would, in my opinion, be significantly improved. You see, in our time, this is no longer a personal problem, but rather a problem is the one who gives some kind of order in the country. In principle, there may be a formally independent judiciary in the country, but if the judicial authority still gives court rulings that clearly recognise the order of the President of that country, is there a separation of powers in that country or not? We have just finished the debate on the draft law on administrative reform, for example. This draft law, as it was here at the end of second reading, was absolutely not dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of which I am a member. It's a complete rubber stamp right now. As this bill has come from Arto Asa's office, it is accepted here by the vote of the government coalition. This is undoubtedly the result of a political decision to help the government, but if we start to look formally, it turns out that at least during the current composition of the Riigikogu there is no independent legislative power in Estonia. Whatever the members of the opposition are talking about here or how they are protesting, we now have a full executive dictatorship over legislative power, i.e. over us who we are in this Chamber. One of the issues addressed in my own amendments, as well as in the amendments of the Free Party on the draft law on administrative reform, is the rules for the next local elections. If there will be many fewer municipalities, their councils will be large: 25 to 35 people will probably be the average size of these councils. The principle that there must be only one electoral district in Estonia to achieve the membership of such a council has now been reaffirmed in the follow-up to this law. This is essentially a question of murdering local democracy. When we started here in 1992, there was a point in the law that no electoral district should be larger than the 13-mandate. Today, the law states that only in a constituency with more than 50,000 inhabitants can there be more than one electoral district. I think that this issue is much more important for the future of democracy in Estonia than what buy-out finals this administrative reform will be conducted with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U376	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U377	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U378	Ladies and gentlemen, This is not the first time the coalition is trying to give members of the Riigikogu the right to belong to local government councils. Despite the seemingly fine objectives of the draft, its real aim is to increase the influence of political parties, appoint its own representatives to local governments, intervene in the organisation of local life, or violate the autonomy of local governments, and strengthen the vertical weight of power from Toompea to local governments. This will enable the electoral body to orchestrate the presidential elections in the future. In 2005, President Rüütel did not declare the same law and proposed to the Riigikogu that the law be brought into conformity with the Constitution. The Riigikogu discussed the contested law and adopted it again unchanged. The President turned to the Supreme Court to declare the law unconstitutional. In his request to the Supreme Court, the President said that the law is contrary to the principles of autonomy, separation of powers and balance of powers and inconsistency of offices. The principle of autonomy of the local government resulting from § 154 of the Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-government requires that the council's activities in deciding local matters must be based primarily on local circumstances and the members of the local council can make decisions irrespective of the central authority of the state, giving priority to local interests. The principle of separation and balance of powers laid down in § 4 of the Constitution is to avoid concentration of power. The principle of separation of powers has been violated when the same person simultaneously performs the functions of two branches of power. The activities of the Council in the exercise of self-governing administration are regarded as the exercise of executive power. A member of the Riigikogu, which is part of the municipal council, will exercise an executive state power that is contrary to the principle of separation and balance of powers. If one person performs the functions of different authorities at the same time, this is also not in accordance with the principle of incompatibility of the agencies laid down in § 63 of the Constitution, one of the objectives of which is to ensure that a member of the Riigikogu can concentrate on working in the Riigikogu. Sitting on two benches is interfering with that. The Supreme Court granted the President's request, pointing to a contradiction with the Constitution. The law was not passed. The Chancellor of Justice also found that the membership of the members of the Riigikogu is contrary to the Constitution. The principle of autonomy of the municipality is an expression of the principle of separation of vertical powers, which is to ensure that local authorities have discretion in resolving local life issues. If Members of Parliament take part in the decision-making of local issues, the independence of local governments will be reduced, as there may be a situation where local issues are decided on the basis of the interests of the state rather than the local needs. You don't have to be a council member to be familiar with the problems of local life. At the same time, membership of both the council and the Riigikogu affects the stability of the activities of the representative bodies. The principle of incoherence between agencies is at the same time a prohibition on the granting of two different powers to one person, aimed at preventing conflicts of interest. The second aim of the ban on reconciling occupations is to ensure that members of the Riigikogu devote themselves to parliamentary work. The Chancellor of Justice added that belonging to both representative bodies is not in line with the principle of separation of personal powers. In a situation where a person performs conflicting functions at the same time and pursues conflicting objectives, a conflict of interest may arise in the performance of those tasks. For example, the participation of members of the Riigikogu in the decision-making of the state budget may lead to unequal treatment of local governments. The executive edition of the Estonian Constitution explains that the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu and a member of the local government council is incompatible. The reconciliation of the mandate of the Riigikogu and the member of the council is contrary to the principles of avoiding conflicts of interest arising from the Constitution and the separation of vertical and personal powers. On the one hand, the reconciliation of mandates may tilt a member of the Riigikogu to deal with national issues from a local perspective; on the other hand, the independence of local governments in deciding local life issues may be reduced if the decision-making bodies are the representatives of the state authorities, who may leave local needs in the background. As a member of the Riigikogu, the person must stand up for the interests of the state, but as a member of the council, for the local interests. These interests may conflict with each other. All of this is well known to the government, yet they are coming up with the same legal proposal again. In view of the above, it is strange how the coalition of the Reform Party, Social Democrats and IRL in power is deliberately trying to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in order to increase its influence at local level and to ignore the position of the Supreme Court and the Chancellor of Justice. Such conscious and deliberate violation of the rules and constitution of the functioning of the democratic regime means only one thing: the government separates itself from the Estonian legal system and thus questions its legitimacy. Therefore, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U379	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U380	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Genetics as a science is well developed in Estonia and Estonian scientists have cloned a calf, among other things. Augustina is the well-known calf that has lasted for a very long time. But when politicians start doing cloning, it tends to go wrong. The first cloning was when politicians cloned the bait duck. This thing went to shit, and now they're trying to fix it, but this mistake's gonna create a situation where the decoy duck gets two butts. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that the situation of the so-called decoy ducks that we have today is indeed unacceptable and something must be done. But what is being done and how it is being done is still wrong. I see a good colleague, Igor Gräzini, standing back there, who here spoke very patheticly about the very difficult life of a politician, a public bodyman, how he spends his life wearing that sign to the fore, and that he is not allowed to participate in the work of a local government council, although he can apply there. However, today there are two partyless members in the Riigikogu and one party that allows two partyless members to be among them. Election unions are allowed in local governments, but it is very difficult for people who are partyless to apply to the Riigikogu. I could also ask whether a partyless person is not a person who is not allowed to apply for the Riigikogu on the electoral union list. Such arguments can be very much brought to Igor Gräzin. It was said here, as if the members of the Riigikogu were involved in the work of the local government council, its competence would increase enormously. I would like to remind you once again that there will be fewer than a thousand council members in Estonia due to the administrative reform, which means that competition for the remaining seats will increase enormously. So there can be no doubt that competence will not increase there. If there is any doubt about this, it is more of a reflection that local people are not able to think, and as wise people from Tallinn, we should bring more knowledge to it. The second argument, as if a member of the Riigikogu would then be much better aware of what is happening on the ground, is very easily disproved. Mr Tarmo Tamm referred to this when he asked questions. I can say, on the basis of my practice, that I belong to the Development Committee of my municipality, that I am actively involved in community work and that I have an excellent picture of local life. There's nothing more to do here. I am very well informed and, in the same way, I can very well inform the people of the municipality about what is happening here in the Riigikogu. I'd like a little more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U381	Three minutes, maybe a little extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U382	This debate flashed through the thought that Andres Ammas, Jaanus Karilaid, and Lauri Luik could sit on a council. But imagine a situation where the same ideological struggle that is taking place in this hall will be transferred to the local government and this 'Tallinn squabble' will continue on the ground there. I recall the old Chinese saying that it doesn't matter what color the cat is, as long as he catches mice. This is the best characteristic of local government activities. One of the problems that has been referred to here in the past is precisely the same rooftop money. If there is already a method of buying up roofing money, then if members of the Riigikogu still have the opportunity to participate in the work of the local government council, the roofing money will become a completely official means of purchasing votes. It's a very dangerous tendency. Therefore, I personally support all those who think that this bill should be rejected now, and I also call on you to vote in favour of the rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U383	More... The name was mentioned. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U384	I do not know whether the quality of local government work will improve when members of the Riigikogu come to local councils, but we have an example that the level of local government will decrease when members of the Riigikogu leave. The example is Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U385	There are no more requests for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. Mr Riigikogu, four amendments were tabled to Bill 181. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U386	I'm sorry, I did wrong!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U387	It's okay, it happens. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission has rejected the proposal. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the commission has taken the proposal fully into account. The third amendment has been tabled by the commission, fully taken into account. The fourth amendment has been rejected by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U388	On behalf of the Free Party Group, I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U389	Got it. The table of amendments has then been revised. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 181. At the same time, the Group of the Estonian Free Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has also proposed to interrupt the second reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U390	Mr President, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for a four-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U391	Break four minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U392	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading. Please take a stand and vote. 27 members of the Riigikogu and 50 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U393	The first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, waitress for the initiators, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U394	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to bring Estonian penal law into line with the rules agreed in the European Union countries, which prevent the misuse of inside information and market manipulation in securities and stock exchange transactions. In itself, Estonia's penal law currently provides for these means of preventing it, but we have agreed with the other countries of the European Union that it is necessary to define them more precisely. It protects the market's turnover in the economic environment within Estonia and undoubtedly also Estonian investors who invest in other European Union countries. Three fundamental changes have been introduced in the draft act, due to the transposition of EU legislation. Firstly, the countries of the European Union have agreed that manipulators must not escape easily. To this end, in the event of misuse of inside information and market manipulation, the cap on imprisonment should be increased by one year, as our current law provides for a maximum penalty of three years. However, the countries of the European Union have agreed that this ceiling could be four years. Secondly, it is necessary to identify specific alternatives to conduct in the context of misuse of inside information in order to ensure that the composition of the offence is furnished by means of the directly applicable market abuse rate. To this end, alternatives to the operation require the definition of illegal disclosure of inside information, trading on the basis of inside information, recommending trading on the basis of inside information to another person and influencing another person to trade on the basis of inside information. The following amendment concerns the fact that the current criminal law defines the factors qualifying for market manipulation in the case of a criminal offence in two cases: where there is a substantial benefit or where the offence is committed by a group. The law of the European Union to which we are party provides that the driver should also be sanctioned if the manipulation of inside information has caused serious damage, i.e. no one has benefited, but is harmed either by a competitor or by a market environment. I would ask Parliament to discuss and support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U395	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U396	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! You have taken your interest in improving the quality of regulation. This draft is, in my opinion, another sad example of how the directive will be adopted by 3 July. The draft was tabled on 14 April and the amendments were given two days. What knowledge does the Ministry have of the need to adopt directives? How long do you know this need in advance? Why are the proposals received by the Riigikogu so late?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U397	Thank you. First of all, from the point of view of reducing the volume of legislation, it is important for us to be extremely cautious about the legislation that has been introduced in the European Union, which creates additional bureaucracy and administrative burdens, and which cannot be said to create additional legal certainty or create more freedoms and rights for our people. This is certainly not a threat in this legislation. Secondly, it is very important that, if we are to transpose some European Union legislation, we should do exactly what is the mandatory rate of application of European Union law and not take over more than is foreseen. This legislation also meets these requirements. Thirdly, what is the right time for European Union law to be enforced in such a way that the law becomes effective within the agreed deadline? It is certainly very important that good legislative practice is followed in the preparation of all these acts, i.e. the process of inclusion, coordination and analysis. All three elements of this legislation exist. If we look cyclically at the way in which the transposition threshold in Parliament is not too high as regards possible changes, the fact is that the Estonian Parliament has exercised legislative power when it has essentially given up its mandate in the Committee on European Union Affairs through the Sectoral Commission. We have to admit that, at the moment, there is no point in talking about ideological or political choice as to whether or not to enforce such legislation in the European Union's legislative process. The question of whether or not to do this politically was already resolved when we took part in the European Union's codecision process in the drafting and approval of this legislation. Today, the question is how to technically transpose it. Certainly the Ministry of Justice wants to do so without stretching and also to give Parliament enough time. Of course, if this time in the view of Members is not enough, we will try to improve our work. There is certainly no room for justification here either. The sooner we can prepare these things for Parliament, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U398	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U399	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a practical question. It says here that the maximum penalty for market abuse will be four years imprisonment instead of three years imprisonment. Is there any psychological or experiential justification for this one-year extension of imprisonment? Is there any way to explain this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U400	We're dealing with big systems here. 28 countries have agreed among themselves what should be a certain upper limit. If you ask whether the sections of the Penal Code that we are amending have very extensive implementation practice, they actually have a general preventive effect, they have been applied in a few cases per year. Is there a substantial preventive weight in Estonia in terms of penal policy when extending from three years to four years? I don't think it's worth overemphasising. Of course, when we talk about people who could be forced to refrain from a crime because their actions are punishable and can come out, this effect is quite similar in the case of three and four years. However, it is important that condemnation has been expressed across Europe, and in this way it has been agreed between the countries of the European Union. These rates have probably been different in different countries when it was considered necessary to set a mandatory ceiling. I am not going to read out the practice of other countries, after all, this ceiling has been much lower in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U401	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U402	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! You did not answer my question specifically, which is the optimal time for Member States to know that they should apply one or the other directive. I've heard of an order of magnitude like two years. If this time really is two years, what prevents the Estonian state from finding out in the course of the year what should be done and how should it be done to amend the law? Why must this be done two months before the new directive enters into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U403	Thank you. As a general rule, I think that the positions of the government should be shaped in such a way that the legislator has the time to make choices on substantive issues, whether it is the transposition of European Union law or the development of law. Estonia is a small country. The fact is that there will be a series of things that have been so-called politically launched in previous years, even during the previous European Commission, and which will now be taken over. There is no question here, but the problem is the allocation of resources. Speaking of what absolute choices would be to build a very strong state apparatus for a mechanism for the total discharge of European Union law, I think it would make sense for Members to give a signal that a certain red line has to be agreed here. I think that makes perfect sense. If Members sense that something should have happened earlier, Parliament has a sovereign right to say this, whether it is for the field of the Ministry of Justice or for another authority. I guess there's some schoolboy logic here that needs to be prepared for the exam, and that's the time of the exam. It's universal that it's based on a deadline, so it's in agencies, schoolboys, students, and whatever jobs you do. I think that the contracting authority and the master of the work is Parliament. If Parliament points out that this pace should be speeded up, then this legislator's signal must be taken very carefully by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U404	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Uno Kaskpeit. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U405	Mr. President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on this subject took place on 2 May. In addition to the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, Mr Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, and Mr Markus Kärner, adviser, attended the meeting of the committee. Minister of Justice Reinsalu presented the draft and the Market Abuse Directive, which obliges Member States to provide as a criminal offence for market manipulation and misuse of inside information. You heard certain things from the Minister's report. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice answered questions from members of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It was discussed whether the penalty rates in the draft should be higher. The representatives of the Ministry explained that it was not possible to revise the sanctions for economic offences in the framework of the draft, since the deadline for transposing the Market Abuse Directive was 3 July. That's what you heard here in the previous report. It was noted that the Ministry is in charge of organising this area. Resources were also under discussion. The representatives of the Ministry explained that pre-trial proceedings are dealt with by the Central Criminal Police and, if necessary, that experts can also be involved in the investigation. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 May (consensually), that the first reading be closed (consensually), that Uno Kaskpeit be appointed rapporteur (consensually) and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 13 May. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 9 May, however, the chairman of the committee provided information that the Minister of Justice could not attend the sitting of the Riigikogu on 10 May. Consequently, the president proposed to amend the protocol decision of 2 May on the dates mentioned above. It was decided that if the first reading of draft 220 did not take place on 10 May, the Committee on Legal Affairs would propose that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 May (the decision was adopted by consensus). Secondly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 19 May at 19 p.m. for amendments (by 7 votes to 1, with 1 abstention). You all witnessed yesterday that we did not get to the debate on this draft. As a result, the Committee on Legal Affairs took operationally new decisions yesterday. The Commission decided to change the deadline for submitting amendments, initially set at 19 May at 7 p.m. The Commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of the draft (by 7 members of the Commission, no one opposed, with 1 abstention) and, secondly, to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 27 May (consensus decision). So I cannot quite agree with my colleague, as if only two days had been granted for tabling amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U406	Wait, MP Kaskpeit! Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Uno Kaskpeit! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Külliiki Kübarsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U407	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to mark the fundamental question of our procedural decisions. With regard to this directive, the previous speaker pointed out that it is not possible to talk about the different levels of penalties already because the date of entry into force of the directive is so close that there is no longer time for discussions. I don't think that's acceptable, dear people. Yes, the Minister did not show up in the meantime because there was a protest here and there was no desire to accept this Commission proposal, and in the meantime there was also a week off, and therefore this date moved forward. After all, we have an agreed red line, which is at least ten working days of the Riigikogu. I think we should stick to that. This directive is short, but there are quite a number of directives that are several dozen pages long and very substantive. We are in trouble, after all, that we are trying to take over Eurobureaucracy at the same time, even without making it clear whether it is understandable to lawyers. Often two lawyers give three opinions. We should not pursue this practice. In my opinion, there was a sad coincidence in the same committee with the Bar Act, on which one working day was given to make observations, because on 1 March there was supposed to be a general meeting of the Bar Association. Again, there was no substantive debate, but they wanted to protect someone's interests. Were those just people's interests? Were these the interests of the members of the Riigikogu? I doubt it. If the Minister of Justice has made it a priority to reduce the volume of legislation and thereby improve the quality of legislation, please, we will follow this principle in every respect, including with regard to directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U408	There are no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 220. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 May at 27 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U409	The second reading of the draft law amending the Food Act and the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Commission waitress Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U410	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the Law amending the Food Act and the Food Act was in this Chamber on 13 April, including. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 26 April. Let me remind you a little bit about this bill. The Food Law was last amended in 2014 when the European Union regulations imposed a requirement to notify all specific categories of foods. Since the European Commission is not in a position to introduce such legislation, it is necessary to amend the food law on the notification of the placing on the market of foods for particular nutritional uses, which will enter into force on 20 July 2016, in order to bring it into line with European Union law. The draft specifies the obligation to notify the placing on the market of foods for particular nutritional uses. The amendment replaces the obligation to notify all foods for particular nutritional uses with the obligation to notify only the specific foods provided for by the implementing acts of the European Commission. The entry into force of the Act is planned for 20 July. From that date, the Food and Veterinary Office is no longer required to be informed of gluten-free and lactose-free foods or foods intended for athletes. Furthermore, the food business operator of a particular foodstuff shall no longer have to inform the Food and Veterinary Office whether a particular food has already been placed on the market in another Member State. As a result of the changes, the administrative burden for those placing particular foods on the market will be reduced. This is a technical change, in essence a restoration of the situation that existed before the previous amendment of the law. No amendments were tabled by Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, 198 discussions took place at two meetings: 2 and 10 May. The Commission made two amendments to the draft, which were unanimously approved by the Commission at its meeting on 2 May. These are linguistic and technical clarifications and additions to the technical specification when referring to legislation amending directives. The Commission took the following decisions: At its meeting on 2 May, it was decided to propose that 198 be placed on the agenda for the plenary session by 11 May and that the second reading be closed. On 10 May, it was decided to send the draft to third reading when the second reading was completed, by 18 May, and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. All these decisions were consensual. Unfortunately, the second reading was postponed to today, 18 May, and so we need to discuss this draft in committee again before sending it to third reading and make new procedural decisions. Although we are a little stuck with the work in the big Chamber and we are still discussing the drafts of last week, I am sure that we will stand by and get the work done, and we will not delay any further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U411	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U412	Good manager! Good waitress! I found on the list of special foods a replacement for the daily diet for weight control. Are there any weekly or monthly food substitutes, or are there only daily food substitutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U413	I understand you're referring to a regulation that has nothing to do with this bill. Since we did not discuss this in the Commission, I think you should address your question to the Minister for Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U414	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U415	I read the draft Act amending the Food Act and the Food Act, of § 198, § 2 of the Food Act, § 14 'Eritot'. It says here that there is a total diet replacement for weight control. The question is simple: are there any replacements for an hour or a week or a month?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U416	Since we did not discuss this issue in the Commission, I really do not know how to answer you myself. I think a daily norm is enough, and there is no need to set an hourly standard.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U417	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Two amendments have been tabled to the draft act 198. The first amendment is from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has, of course, been taken into account. Second reading of bill 198 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U418	We will begin the first reading of draft law 204 on public procurement initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiating waitress, Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U419	Honourable Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to introduce you on behalf of the government, a long and thoroughly prepared draft law on public procurement. This is a complete text, which, with your approval, will become the fourth law on public procurement in the order of the newly independent Estonia. Before presenting the content of the draft, it is worth noting that the Public Procurement Act and the whole area in general play an important role in promoting life in Estonia, after all, much of the use of public money depends on the rules laid down in this law. To illustrate what has been said, the monetary volume of public procurement last year was 2.3 billion euros and in the last 15 years it was more than 25 billion euros. The new law on public procurement is substantial and detailed; the reason for this is the fact that the law transposes three new directives of the European Union. In addition, the new Public Procurement Act also regulates the provisions of the Defence and Security Directive and the Law Enforcement Directive that have already been transposed into Estonian law. In total, the draft therefore covers the regulation of five directives. I will certainly not be able to open in detail all the amendments proposed by the draft during my presentation, and I will mention here the most important ones, starting with the main objectives of the draft. The aim is to make procurement procedures more flexible, promote value-based procurement, reduce public procurement costs and support the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement. In order not to remain merely generic, I will also highlight some more concrete examples of how these objectives will be achieved. The procedure will become more flexible, in particular by significantly facilitating the verification of the exclusion and qualification of tenderers and the provision of information to contracting authorities. The current law is built on the logic that the contracting authority makes decisions in a specific order: qualification check, verification of the grounds for exclusion, verification of the conformity of the tender. The new law has approved the direction that the contracting authority may, as the first procedure, identify the successful tenderer, i.e. start checking the conformity of the tender. This reduces the burden on the contracting authorities as the lack of qualifications and grounds for exclusion of other tenderers is no longer subject to a substantive verification by the contracting authority. Moreover, in the future, qualification conditions need not be set at all if the contracting authority considers it appropriate. Of course, procedures can also be carried out in the traditional order if the contracting authority so wishes. A new type of procurement procedure will be added: Innovation Partnership. This will enable the contracting authority to develop and acquire an item, service or construction work which is not yet available on the market. The rules for concessions will also become more uniform and flexible. However, the greatest changes are foreseen in terms of changes to contracts. The current law did not allow for any change in the substance of the contracts. The draft will make it possible to make the agreements substantially more flexible. For example, minor changes may be made without further justification. As a weakness of the Public Procurement Act, it is often and unearnedly stated that it would always force contracting authorities to decide in favour of the cheapest offer. This is not the case either under the current law or under the proposed draft. We have also tried to anchor this way of thinking in the draft, emphasising the promotion of value-based procurement. To this end, we have foreseen in the draft that environmental and social aspects and life-cycle costs can be better taken into account when assessing the offer. One example is the printing of books on recycled paper or in the framework of a contract for social integration of vulnerable members of society. Public procurement costs will be significantly reduced by the new procedural possibilities already mentioned, while savings will also be achieved in monitoring the various requirements. Thanks to the use of a procurement passport or electronic databases, the tenderer will have to provide fewer documents and the contracting authority will have to work less. It should be noted that the procurement passport is a standard form document in which the tenderer confirms the eligibility criteria and the absence of grounds for exclusion. The proposed full transition to e-Procurement, which is expected to take place by 18 October 2018, will also reduce costs. It is expected that an average of 35%, i.e. EUR 12.4 million, will be achieved over a period of five years for the costs of contracting authorities and tenderers alone. If contracting authorities were to organise public procurement using the possibilities provided for in the draft law, the cost of the procurement procedure would be further reduced by 9% for the contracting authority and 6% for the tenderer on the basis of a study commissioned by the Ministry of Finance. The new regulation also allows for additional savings due to the raising of thresholds for lower amounts, simpler procedural rules, less money being spent on the joint or central organisation of procurement and the establishment of reasonable and flexible procurement procedures by the contracting authority. The government's particular attention has been focused specifically on improving the opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises. This draft substantially broadens these options. Understandably, the opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises will be improved by reducing the red tape already involved in procurement, which I mentioned earlier. More directly for this purpose, the draft stipulates that the contracting authority cannot impose unreasonable turnover on tenderers to participate in the procurement. As a rule, the turnover requirement can be up to twice the estimated value of the contract. Simply put, if the value of the contract is EUR 100000, the turnover required of the tenderer may be up to EUR 200000. A higher requirement must be justified separately by the contracting authority. Access to small and medium-sized enterprises is also improved by the way in which contracting authorities should give preference to splitting them in procurement above the international threshold. I would like to draw attention to a few other changes that will certainly have a positive impact on the landscape of public procurement. The contracting authorities have eagerly waited for further levers to keep the unfair suppliers out of the procurement. This request has also been met. A tenderer who has significantly or continuously infringed previous contracts may be excluded from public procurement. Certainly, one of the most exciting issues of the Public Procurement Act is the thresholds for public procurement. This draft proposes to increase these thresholds. For supplies and services, the threshold will be EUR 60000 instead of EUR 40000, and for works EUR 300000 instead of EUR 250000. There are even more thresholds for social and special services, including health and social services, hotel and restaurant services, postal services. In the case of contracts below the threshold for public procurement, the draft provides for a simple procurement procedure, as is the case with the current law. At the same time, there have also been adjustments to a simple procurement procedure which should improve its implementation. There will also be an increase in the threshold for simple procurement. In the case of even smaller contracts, the procurement procedures drawn up by the contracting authority itself must be used. The procurement procedure shall ensure transparency, verifiableness and openness of the acquisition. Where exactly national limits should be drawn and what obligations they entail has always been decided as a result of lengthy disputes and compromises. It has gone the same way with the draft that has been submitted to you. I have no doubt that there will be a number of proposals for raising or lowering the thresholds during the procedure for the draft. This is a perfectly normal part of the legislative process. The limits of the honourable Riigikogu can probably still be carefully considered. On the one hand, it is important that the thresholds are not so low that the procurement costs are comparable to the value of the contract, on the other hand, they must be taken into account to ensure that the vast majority of public contracts are organised in an open, transparent and verifiable manner. I would point out that the value of most contracts is not very high in Estonia and this suggests that the thresholds for public procurement should not be disproportionately high. Caution should be taken with regard to the proposals that we should necessarily follow the example of other countries in terms of thresholds. While it is convenient to suggest that we should do as in Finland or Sweden, it must be understood that the public procurement law of each Member State is somewhat specific as well as price levels. If one or the other limit is not known, it makes little sense to copy them mechanically. It is worth noting that, due to the increase in the minimum and upper thresholds for simple procurement, about 1600 contracts, or 15% of public procurement, are excluded from the register. About 650 contracts, i.e. 6%, are excluded from the scope of the mandatory rules of the law. Last but not least, I would like to mention the arguments put forward by the media that the new public procurement law will lead to a loss of transparency. I assure you, there is certainly no such direction. According to the current law, information on the tenderers is only visible to other tenderers, the draft is made available to the public and immediately after the closing date for the submission of tenders. So here we are going on a more transparent path, there is no secrecy of bidders. Rumours of a loss of transparency are likely to have resulted in a change in the timing of publication of the value of the tenders. Currently, prices can be published when tenders are opened, but the draft proposes that this should happen a little later, at the same time as they are declared successful. At the same time, other tenderers will also be given detailed reasons as to the advantages of a successful tender over others. Similarly, ideas have been exchanged on which information in the tender may be confidential and on which data the public interest is so high that they should not be withheld. On the one hand, tenderers must have confidence that their business secrets will not be published by the contracting authority, on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that society knows that the procurement is organised transparently and is won by the tenderer who deserves the victory honestly. It will give the taxpayer peace of mind that his money has been entrusted to the right place. That is why we have chosen in the draft that the cost of tenders and the contribution rate cannot be stated as commercially confidential, if the latter is taken into account separately in the evaluation. The amendments to the draft public procurement law submitted to the Riigikogu concerning the publication of the tender and trade secrets are based on the following principles: Firstly, we are on the verge of a complete transition to e-procurement, which already guarantees certain controls and transparency and reduces opportunities for counterfeiting. Secondly, we follow the case law of the European Court of Justice that contracting authorities do not disclose information obtained in a procurement procedure, the content of which could be used to distort competition. Thirdly, we follow the practice of the Supreme Court and the competition law according to which a business secret is determined by an entrepreneur and, finally, the fact that the name of the tenderer, the value of the tender and, if they are assessed at the choice of the successful tenderer, the contributions or other criteria are also disclosed. Such a voluminous bill then. This has been done for two years and more than 50 parties have been involved in this process. As it is now, it can be said calmly that the Committee on Economic Affairs is also taking this work very seriously, the lead manager has already started to include and examine the details of this draft. I hope that the draft will get even better in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, and I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U420	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U421	Thanks! Historically, European governments have used the internal transaction rule most in the supply of waste. This rule, therefore, is rooted in the provision of waste to the public before it is introduced in European Union public procurement law. There is therefore no historical argument as to why concessions for waste transport and waste management should not fall under internal transaction rules, as we do. Why is Estonia an exceptional country in this sense in Europe? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U422	Thank you. I am not much of a waste specialist, but indeed, this subject went over briefly before the government sent the draft to Parliament. We decided not to change our current practice. As the area law has ruled out this possibility, we did not start to change this policy direction with the Public Procurement Act. That's a short answer. But I'm sure this can be discussed during the proceedings. In general, we do not want to favour these internal transactions very much in the government union, but rather to see that there is free competition, that there is competition neutrality. The Ministry of Justice even undertook, during the proceedings, to develop certain principles by the end of the year and to carry out analyses of how we have any problems with competitive neutrality and internal transactions. So this issue is certainly still topical. But with this draft, we do not really change the current procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U423	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U424	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, However, the explanatory memorandum to the new draft law on public procurement refers to the fact that European case law does not prohibit the application of the internal transaction regime to service concessions, including waste management. How has the service concession in the field of waste management been incorporated into the draft Public Procurement Act? Is this in line with the directive or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U425	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U426	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Maris Lauri! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Ken-Marti Vaher Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U427	Thank you. As a principle, generally there are three days. If you want to win a buy, you have three days to liquidate your tax debt. If you do it in three days, you can be the winner of the deal, if you don't, you can't. It's as simple as that. A certain period of time will be given to liquidate the tax debt, and that is a very firm demand. So hopefully, those entrepreneurs who want to take part in public procurement will also have a proper level of payments. In general, we want more businesses to participate in public procurement. If, in terms of other indicators, we are relatively advanced in public procurement in Europe, participation in public procurement is quite small in Estonia. According to memory, on average, we have three to five companies participating in the procurement, for example, in Spain, a much more beautiful number in size classes, which also makes competition more intense. Perhaps we need to simplify these rules and e-procurement more, so that small businesses too dare to participate in public procurement and this circle goes wider. But you can't have a tax debt.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U428	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U429	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! You touched two keywords. One was that the lowest price is no longer so important, and the other was that it is possible to protect small and medium-sized local companies. As you go around, you can see that the biggest problem is that Estonia's own companies, which are not very large, but who have quite a lot, would also want to participate, but may not get it. At the same time, the country has the largest wallet on which these companies can employ more people. How has this draft given advantages to Estonian own companies, which are either small or medium-sized rather than, for example, to very large construction companies, which we have about five?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U430	Thank you. There is a hierarchy in the organisation of these procurements. Much depends on the area and the volume of specific procurement, how strict the rules must be observed. Most procurements in Estonia are quite small, so in fact a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises can participate in them. We will also bring down the threshold that can be required of them. As I mentioned, for example, the amount of turnover must not exceed twice the volume of the specific procurement. Unreasonable conditions cannot be required of participants in procurement. True, while in the European Union, the European market is our common internal market. We have certain common principles; we cannot impose protectionist rules. Crossing a certain threshold for international procurement is also the goal of cross-border bidders being able to participate. If we exclude very large construction procurements that require experience, large volume and financial capacity, most of the procurements organised in Estonia are also within the reach of local entrepreneurs. In order to encourage this, procurement can be divided into lots. It must not be a division to circumvent any rules. It is precisely so that smaller companies can make their tenders in the procurement process that are allowed to be divided into parts. Such changes are planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U431	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U432	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! I have a sincere request: please stick to the focus of the question when you answer. I was talking about state companies, but you were talking about local governments, which, I understand, is a good shield. The National Audit Office has repeatedly made comments that state companies do not follow public procurement procedures, and the Procurement Department of the Ministry of Finance also makes comments that please tender for this service. I gave a concrete example that the icebreaker Botnica was acquired without a public procurement contract for EUR 50 million. Will it be possible to make such 50 million purchases in the future under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, or will it be regulated in any way in the future by the Public Procurement Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U433	Thank you. On the contrary, I'm not very familiar with the Botnica case. However, I remembered a recent example of local government. I think that the Ministry of Finance, which supervises and deals with the regulation of public procurement, is very harsh. We consider it more appropriate to do more procurement, especially in the case of very large sums. I don't know how well the last ferry delivery was done, but it was done. I really can't comment exactly on how this icebreaker went, whether or not it was looking for offers on the market. There might be some nuances. Nor do I remember exactly what the National Audit Office said about this. This is a slightly different subject from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But the general principle is that if the money comes from a public source, if the money comes from the state budget or the state is the principal contracting authority, then the procurement must be organised. And there are limits to the procurement. Only today I heard that Eesti Loto now has to organise procurements. In this sense, the rules are relatively strict.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U434	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U435	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns, in particular, the principle of publication of tenders and transparency of public procurement. The explanatory memorandum states, as a general principle, that tenders are confidential under the new law until a successful tender is decided by the contracting authority. This highlights the principle of business secrecy in public procurement. Can you explain the author's understanding of the relationship between business secrecy and disclosure? What is the principle that tenders are confidential until such time as the contracting authority makes a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U436	There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the Economic Commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 204. I will set the deadline of 10 June at 4 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U437	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Some companies currently have tax debts, but still have the possibility to participate in procurement. Does this bill give you a clearer picture of it, or does everything stay the way it was?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U438	Yeah, that's definitely consistent. But as I said in reply to the previous questioner, it has been our own choice not to change the policy so far. I don't know exactly why this history is so regulated. There have probably been some bad examples, some risks that have not been managed differently, except that waste management has been regulated in a slightly different way. So, yes, it goes a little far from the general focus of the law, but maybe the members of the Environment Committee are better informed about the reasons for the choices made in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U439	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! I'm going on with the same subject. As the questioner pointed out, the principle of European case law is that the practice of implementing services must be one for all. Could it be that our laws regulate waste management differently from the special interests of a waste company in general in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U440	I really hope that's not the case. During the preparation of this draft, I have had no contact with waste companies, no contact and no complaints. But it can be discussed before the second reading, the people who have been working on this bill for two years and also know the history of the waste management and why such choices have been made. We just got pretty busy processing the bill at one point, and we have to admit that we do not have time to stall it. Thus, we did not open such large new fronts, the old principle remained in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U441	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U442	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. We know that the share of the shadow economy is increasing and is already around 15%. In my opinion, this is particularly supported by the current Public Procurement Act. I've been talking to several construction companies. They say it is impossible to make an honest offer, because someone comes in and squirts the market, fails to pay state taxes and pays envelope wages. However, if we have to take the cheapest price offer and it is very difficult to justify why we do not want to take it, this trend will continue. Why do we encourage the continued growth of the shadow economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U443	Thank you. In this regard, I think the IRS has done a lot of work on construction sites in a certain country. Indeed, there have been cases and some companies have been caught by their dirty behaviour. I hope that this practice will not be used in public procurement. As far as the cheaper price is concerned, it has indeed been the most common practice so far that the cheapest price is being chased. In particular, if the contracting authority is not very experienced and able to impose other conditions, it may also be afraid to explain publicly if the cheapest one is not chosen as the winner. We now want to emphasise more value-based life-cycle costs, that environmental impacts should be taken into account, social impacts. It also requires a slightly more professional and a bit bolder procurement operator. You don't always have to choose the cheapest price. However, for certain procurements, the price remains decisive. At the same time, I think that the shadow economy is also dealt with by the power structures. The Public Procurement Act itself cannot rule this out. However, we also did not see a good explanation for why any additional criteria on labour costs should start to be included. We didn't think that choice was right either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U444	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U445	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Local authorities have been relatively exemplary in complying with public procurement rules, but the National Audit Office has repeatedly commented that it is state companies that have often avoided public procurement procedures, such as Eesti Energia and the Port of Tallinn. We know that the icebreaker Botnica was acquired without a public procurement contract for EUR 50 million, and there are other examples. Will state companies become more transparent in the future due to this law and will public procurement become more compulsory?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U446	Thank you. In general, Estonian public procurement has been organised on a good level and with success. We have rather high success rates. Compared to the rest of Europe, we do not pay very much for public procurement. However, there are also examples that procurement has not been organised. They are certainly found among public enterprises, but also among local governments. I recall that the city of Tallinn refused to disclose how much the 'Savisaare Process' series cost, but it is paid out of the taxpayers' pocket. There is definitely room for improvement in this respect. The principle is, however, that if money is from a public source, if the NGO, the foundation, whatever the money of the administration comes from the taxpayer's pocket, then public procurement must be organised and the relevant regulations respected. And these rules are constantly being improved. So we are hoping for progress in a positive direction and the current trends prove this development. The transition to e-procurement is also very good. What else is being done in the public sector to make the procurement work better? Transferring to central purchasing bodies. This means that, firstly, things are procured together in order to achieve a scale effect, for example, each institution does not have to get its own printers, but is done jointly. Secondly, those centres of competence who do joint procurement have really daily experience in their procurement, and the public authorities and their agencies do not have to worry about it. This is the direction: we will do more, we will do more professionally, then we will also be able to apply better procurement conditions. That's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U447	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U448	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! How well and thoroughly has this new draft worked out the compatibility of our Public Procurement Act with the conditions of Structural Funds support? This has, as we know, caused many problems in R &amp; D in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U449	Thank you. Yes, one must admit that the combination of these two laws is problematic. We are raising the thresholds in public procurement law and making certain rules more flexible and sensible. At the same time, there are also a number of rules arising from the Structural Support Act and the regulations that affect the use of European Union money. There is certainly still a lot of work and room for improvement here to make sure that these limits and rules are in place, so that public authorities and, for example, universities do not have to spend so much resources to comply with the rules of the European Union. This is certainly an area that needs to be further addressed after the adoption of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U450	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U451	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft we are debating today is certainly the expected draft thanks to a number of constructive principles, the discussions of which in the Committee on Economic Affairs have already been comprehensive enough, but certainly this whole debate is only at an early stage. Today, in the light of other thoughts, I would like to mention perhaps one of the most important principles which generally concerns the field of public procurement through all the years in which this issue has attracted the attention of the public. It is a principle of transparency and publicity in public procurement. In my opinion, many experts consider the field of public procurement to be problematic, and it has also been treated in various studies as one of the most vulnerable areas to corruption. That is why I think that we are now clearly prepared to introduce a golden rule for general disclosure in Estonia. This means that we shall, as far as possible, disclose all tenders submitted in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. The contracting authority would be both the total value of the tender and the main elements, be they the contributions or the other award criteria on the basis of which the contracting authority takes the decision. This golden rule should actually provide an opportunity to take another step forward in order to make society more transparent and also to reduce the risk of corruption. What are the advantages? I would point out three advantages. This fundamental golden rule on the disclosure of tenders should reduce the risk of corruption, in particular because we treat all participants, all bidders equally. All tenderers will be given an ex post opportunity to compare their tenders with those of others, to verify the advantages of the winners and to take into account the state of the market in future procurement. In Sweden and some other Nordic countries, such general and extensive disclosure initially created opposition, but it has now become a clear rule. From this, we could imitate our example. Secondly, the general understanding is that the knowledge and competence of the contracting authority is almost never equal to that of the tenderers. It is clear that tenderers who operate on the market daily also know small details, are able to assess the products or services of other providers in the light of their experience and, in this sense, be a very important link in monitoring that specific public procurements have been carried out correctly, so that there is no maliciousness, deliberate distortion or abuse. In this sense, there is no difference as to whether it is a procurement of construction, information technology or a much simpler area. In general, the sharp eye of other bidders, or competitors, is perhaps even the closest supervision to ensuring the best use of public money and, of course, the best quality of the final product and service. And thirdly, the disclosure of tenders prevents abuse. The knowledge that tenders will be very public to a very large extent is also clearly proactive. This will reduce potential fraud and distortions in procurement. There have also been cases where distortions and intentional infringements have only emerged after the award of the contract. The new principle reduces the desire to offer a poorer product at a lower price, in the hope that the contracting authority will not be able to identify it or will be able to identify it when it is actually too late. Therefore, all such possible temptations should be prevented by the clear knowledge that competitors, other tenderers and, in certain cases, the public will already be informed of the most important information about the tenders when tenders are opened. Certain problems have been caused by some of the wordings of the draft, certainly also by the principles of the explanatory memorandum. For example, we take page 105, where it is unambiguously stated that 'the practice of publishing the costs of tenders is exceptional on the basis of the current RHS compared to the practice of other EU Member States. The Ministry of Finance has repeatedly asked foreign bidders whether the prices of these tenders are actually published. 'It is clear that this wording cannot be read except that this draft makes a cancer move and moves towards more concealing the content of the tenders, introducing the concept of 'commercial secrecy' and thereby giving rise to a clear understanding that tenders are generally confidential, and rather, it is an exceptional notion that they could be public. Nor is it true that the principle of public and general transparency of tenders is exceptional in the Member States of the European Union. For example, Sweden and Finland, which belong to the top of transparent countries, who are second and third in the Transparency International index, have been subject to the principle that public procurement tenders are public and available to all bidders for years. There are also a number of other such countries. For example, in Lithuania, Denmark and Germany, the prices of all tenderers are published when tenders for works are opened. In Spain, it is the obligation to publish the prices of the tenders, including the contributions and unit costs at the time of opening the tenders, etc. So, between the first and second readings, we need to do a decent job. The Minister confirmed that there was no opposition to the general principle that I believe could be written in the draft as a golden rule, that we would extend the principle of publicity, that we would disclose tenders to such an extent that we would put other tenderers as real guardians of a specific procurement. This would also provide good support to contracting authorities so that they can assess whether the selected procurement is still the best in the end and whether the result will be what is expected. We will, of course, also make it possible to prevent abuse and distortion, which could affect the taxpayer's wallet and provide a basis for claiming that Estonia still has problems in the field of public procurement. Therefore, honourable members of the Riigikogu, I think that the position of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union on the principle of this draft is quite straightforward. But we also need to work on quite a few other issues, so this procedure will certainly be thorough and hopefully also effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U452	Thank you. Yes, this issue was raised by the Commission, and it certainly needs to be discussed and clarified in the committee in preparation for the second reading. Surely the aim has not been to make anything more hidden; just the time for publication will change a little. Why is the amount of the winner's bid not immediately public? It grew out of companies' desire to reduce the so-called price fishing, where companies who do not want to win or make serious offers simply throw some papers on the table to find out the prices of their competitors. There has been such a constant market sounding. Is the update bad or good? Maybe this is part of healthy competition. Anyway, there's the idea of a push. It is now that tenders are submitted, the contracting authority first makes clear who qualifies, and then decides who made the best offer. Then we'll find out to everyone who won and at what price. This information is public and there is nothing more classified than it is now. As far as the business secret is concerned, we do not define this bill, which is a business secret. This is not the subject of this law. Perhaps this should be done more precisely in another law. It is again a matter of sensible choice, compromise and competition. It is certainly impossible to regard as business secret the price or the contribution rates of the procurement and the other criteria set out in the terms of the procurement. In addition to the final price, if there are to be an assessment of any contributions and other criteria, this must definitely be known to everyone. But exactly how, by model or using materials, an undertaking carries out its work does not necessarily need to be publicly known. It's kind of a business secret. This has been the general principle. What's a business secret? The company has been given a considerable degree of freedom to determine exactly what is defined as a business secret in its offer or business model. Should anything be more public in any way, is the forum for discussion. The result could be either way or way. We may also undermine companies' willingness to participate in public procurement at all if some anglers or other competitors become aware of their entire business logic, business model, sources of financing, supply chains. So there's both pros and cons. But the desire to classify something more or hide something more certainly is not. We make the process more transparent and observable all the time. It is e-environments that provide opportunities for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U453	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! The coordination circle was also proposed to include among the exceptions the management contracts concluded by R &amp; D institutions. However, part of the teaching, research and development management contracts is still excluded from the exceptions. For what reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U455	Well, I don't remember exactly. Indeed, we had many meetings with university representatives, both at expert level and myself. The issue of the contract of command didn't come up with them at my meeting. Right now, I owe you that answer. But I can certainly specify what those reasons were. We really had a lot of meetings with the university representatives. Universities have a great deal of resources in organising procurements, and this is a major cost source for them. It must be acknowledged that they are unlikely to be satisfied with the text of this draft, but there is a need to find a place for compromise somewhere. I'll specify later what was in those orders of command.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U456	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U457	Thank you very much. Thanks for the explanations. I must admit that the Chamber of Commerce expressed the opposite view on the coordination circle of the draft as the undertakings to which you referred. The Chamber quite clearly stated its view that tenders should be public as far as possible, including contributions. This was also expressed by representatives of several organisations at a public hearing organised by the Economic Commission this week. I must admit that there is a certain contradiction between the explanatory statement and probably the text of the draft text. Let me ask you this: do I understand correctly that you are prepared to write the principle more clearly in the draft so that tenders are available to the public and to other tenderers? This concerns not only final prices, but also contributions and other important criteria that have been taken into account in the assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U458	Thank you. Maybe I made myself a little crazy in the late hours of the night. I, too, am very convinced that prices, contributions and other criteria must be public when they have been the basis for evaluation. I am absolutely convinced of that. If the text or explanatory memorandum of the draft text leaves the possibility of misinterpretation in this regard, it must be specified. I'm willing to come with you in any way. It was also a question in the Commission. At that point it came a little unexpected, because in the last rounds of stakeholder coordination, this issue did not raise, but it was very good that it came up in the Commission. Let's check it out! I was under the impression that the questioner has brought himself up to speed with this topic, so I'm sure you can contribute as the lead manager. I don't have any taboos or red lines here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U459	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U460	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You said that public policy is such that more businesses take part in public procurement. Aren't you afraid that this process will lead to more debate and hold back work if we want to do something quickly that needs to be done through public procurement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U461	No, I do not think it would create any problems if we had seven bidders instead of three bidders and the rules are clear, the conditions are known and the tendering authority is professional. Of course, the large number of participants is not an end in itself, but it can show the ease of access to certain procurements, it can show that we have entrepreneurs who are willing to participate. And this circle must not be too narrow. At the moment, however, we have a rather narrow circle of those involved in public procurement, and there are probably reasons for this. However, the opposition is surprisingly good. Maybe the press will make it look like we're going to be very much challenged. The reality is quite the opposite: very few procurements are contested. Just a few very colorful cases give us the impression that public procurement is out of our hands. No, it's not. And the more procurement goes to sectoral competence centres, the better organised they are. If memory does not deceive me, then Riigi Kinnisvara AS has managed 99% or even more of the procurements. They are not challenged because everyone knows that they are professionally organised. I do, however, think that more could be involved in procurement. If small and medium-sized enterprises also find this path, it will give a strong boost to our economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U462	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Arto Aas! Economic Commission waitress Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U463	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed draft public procurement law 204 at its meeting on 18 April. Mr Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration, who gave an overview of the objectives and content of the draft, was invited to the meeting of the Commission. In addition to the Minister, the Vice-Chancellor Agris Peedu, Head of the Public Procurement and State Aid Department, Kristel Besilane, and the Adviser to the same department, Evelin Karindi-Kask, answered questions from the members of the Commission and provided further explanations. Several issues related to thresholds. It was clarified that the draft limit would be raised from EUR 10000 to 20000, as the current limit would be in the way of time. The border in Finland is 60000 euros, but it is too high given the price level in Estonia. It was also pointed out that, if the border were to be raised higher, the overview of procurement would deteriorate, as purchases under a simple procurement procedure would not have to be entered in the register. It may happen that if the procurement is not public, it will be directed to the so-called ones. As one of the objectives of the draft is to increase the transparency of procurement, the EUR 20000 limit seems reasonable. It was requested to clarify the obligation to register depending on the size of the procurement. It was clarified that there is no obligation to publish in the procurement register below EUR 20 000, but this can be done. In the case of a call for competition of EUR 20000 to EUR 59990, it must be published in the register, including information on whom the contract has been concluded. A strict set of rules applies from EUR 60000. National rules remain the same, but international procurement rules change according to directives. The Commission had a longer debate on the transparency of procurement, on the disclosure of business secrets and the results of procurement, and also on practices in other countries. The Commission proposed that the Ministry of Finance rewrite the concept of disclosure in more detail. It was suggested that contracting authorities do not always have sufficient competence to assess the quality of tenders, but competing tenderers certainly do and could point to the problem areas in which tenders are offered. The publication of information on the total cost alone is certainly not sufficient to ensure the transparency of procurement. The Ministry was also asked to address the problem if the winner of the procurement wishes to withdraw from the procurement. The draft states that the call for tenders will also be considered valid when the winner of the call for tenders is announced, i.e. the winner of the call for tenders should start to complete the contract regardless of the award of the contract. However, according to Estonia's current practice, it is customary that the award of the contract is considered the basis for the entry into force of the contract. The question of the possibility of regional preferences was answered by the European Union's rules. The issues also concerned the experiences of other countries. It was answered that the choices made in other countries would become apparent after the directive came into force, when the relevant information would reach the European Commission and then be made public. The commission decided, first, to propose that 204 be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 May, second, to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed (consensus), thirdly, to propose that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 30 May. At the extraordinary meeting held last Thursday, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 10 June, as the deadline for the first reading of the draft had moved forward by a week. Following the Commission's meeting, the working group has met several times with representatives of the Ministry of Finance to obtain further information and clarification on the various parts of the draft. The members of the Economic Commission and the working group have also met stakeholders. It can be noted that in general, the Ministry of Finance has been recognised in the process of involvement, but it is expected that stakeholders will also have proposals. Yesterday, on 17 May, an open meeting of the Economic Commission was held in which representatives of the contracting authorities, tenderers and the Ministry were invited. There were more than 20 different parties present. In the future, there will be a number of further meetings with stakeholders both during the working group and during Commission meetings. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U464	We will begin the first reading of draft law 202 on the amendment of state secret and classified foreign information law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Initiator waitress, Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U465	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm in front of you with a draft law on the amendment of state secrets and classified foreign information law. The draft establishes the possibility of entrusting the tasks of an authorised representative of national security responsible for the management and control of the protection of classified foreign information from the Ministry of Defence to the Information Office. Currently, these tasks are carried out by the Department of State Security Authorised Representative of the Ministry of Defence. The purpose of the amendment is to organise activities related to the protection of classified information in the area of the Ministry of Defence in such a way that the various public authorities carry out as little as possible the same or similar operations relating to the processing of such information. The second objective is to take away the task of the State Inspectorate, which is not directly related to the Ministry's core activities. The assignment of the task to the Information Office shall be subject to the necessary amendments to the State Secret and to the Secret Foreign Information Act. Upon entry into force of the Bill Act, the Government of the Republic shall amend the procedures for the protection of state secrets and classified foreign information by assigning the structure unit of the Information Board to perform the function. The drafters also considered setting up an independent government body. However, this would be contrary to the general principle of public administration, according to which the creation of new public authorities should be avoided where possible. The authorised representative of the state security will continue to operate within the domain of the Ministry of Defence and remain as independent as he is now, but can be part of the body whose tasks include the organisation of electronic information security, including verification. The protection of classified external information and electronic security of information, i.e. the protection of classified information processed in information systems, are highly interlinked areas. The Information Board also controls the protection of state secrets in our foreign representations and in the Defence Forces units located outside the territory of Estonia. In this way, checks and training of information protection requirements can be combined more easily in the future, while the Ministry of Defence can focus more on its basic tasks resulting from the Government of the Republic Act. However, in order to make such a technical change, it is necessary to amend the law, as the Information Office is explicitly included in the State Secrets and Classified External Information Act. According to the draft law, the law is formulated in such a way that in the future the Riigikogu should no longer be approached with such an amendment, and the government institution fulfilling the task can be appointed by the Government of the Republic. The rights and obligations of this government body will, of course, continue to be determined at the level of the law. The date of entry into force of the Act is 1 July, according to the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic, but we have proposed to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the date of entry into force be postponed by one month, or 1 August. This will allow the Riigikogu to process the draft more calmly and will also give the Government of the Republic and the institutions concerned the opportunity to make changes in the organisation of work without undue haste. Thank you for your attention. I'll answer the questions if there are any.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U466	You can't answer questions, nobody asks questions. Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Committee is Andres Anvelt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U467	Almost good night, ladies and gentlemen. The debate on this draft was held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 21 April, and in addition to the members of the committee, Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Defence Meelis Oidsalu, Lawyer of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence Peeter Papstel and Head of Legal Affairs of the Information Board Mail Mark took part. I will not repeat what Mr. Secretary of Defense has already announced. In the Commission, the officials of the Ministry of Defence introduced the contents of the bill to us. In the ensuing debate, a number of questions were asked from representatives of the Information Office and the Ministry. For example, there was an interest that this change would not impose an undue burden on the Information Office, whose activities are mainly directed towards foreign intelligence. In response it was pointed out that the Information Office has also had another very important function, namely the protection of information in electronic networks. So giving the Information Office such an additional function actually complements its activities so far. It was also asked whether this was not a potential conflict of interest. The answer sounded like it wasn't. The structural unit of an authorised representative is essentially an inspector and, if it is a member of a ministry, it is more difficult to supervise it than when it is a sub-office, which is the Information Office. It asked what the regulation of analogous structures was and how it was organised in other NATO Member States. The representatives of the Ministry reported that there were very different practices in NATO Member States. In different countries it is organised differently: where is the unit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the Ministry of Defence, where the Foreign Intelligence Office, where the Department of Internal Security is located. There cannot be one requirement on the part of NATO, and the solutions are different. I also repeat that, as reported by the Minister, the representatives of the Ministry asked the Commission to amend the date of entry into force in the course of the procedure and to set 1 August instead of 1 July. Procedural decisions were taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 11 May, which has shifted to today, to propose that the first reading be stopped, to set ten working days for the amendments and to appoint a rapporteur here. All decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U468	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There are no negotiating requests. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 202. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U469	The next item is the first reading of the Bill 209 of Amendment of § 13 of the National Defence Act initiated by the National Defence Committee. Jaanus Kariliid, waitress for the launcher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U470	Ladies and gentlemen, On 4 April 2016, the National Defence Commission met with President Toomas Hendrik Ilves. This meeting discussed, among other things, the issue of the National Defence Act. Pursuant to § 13 (1) of the National Defence Act, in the event of an increased threat to the security of the Republic of Estonia and to participate in a collective self-defence operation, the Government of the Republic may decide by its order to increase the overall defence readiness. The decision shall be based on a risk assessment. In accordance with paragraph 2 of the same section... Is there a social meeting here? According to subsection 2 of the same section, the Government of the Republic is obliged to inform the Riigikogu without delay of the decision to increase defence readiness and its reasons. The obligation to inform the President of the Republic is not laid down in § 13. Since according to § 78 (16) and § 127 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Supreme Head of Estonian National Defence is the President of the Republic, the Act must also provide for the obligation to notify the President of Estonia of the increase in defence readiness. Emergency and martial law may follow a strengthening of defence readiness. According to the Emergency Act, the Riigikogu is invited to announce the state of emergency by the Government of the Republic or the President of the Republic. The Government of the Republic shall decide on the use of the Defence Forces to resolve the state of emergency with the consent of the President of the Republic. In addition, § 128 of the Constitution states that in the event of aggression against the Republic of Estonia, the President of the Republic shall declare martial law and mobilization. It is therefore very important that the Estonian President, as the supreme leader of national defence, is immediately informed of the decision to raise defence readiness. In view of the above, this year the National Defence Commission launched the draft under discussion on 5 April. The decision was taken by consensus by the Commission. Therefore, it is proposed to supplement § 13 (2) of the National Defence Act with the obligation of the Government of the Republic to inform the Supreme Head of National Defence, the President of the Republic, in addition to the Riigikogu, of the decision to increase defence readiness. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft initiated by the National Defence Commission at its meeting on 28 April and decided unanimously to support it. Before submitting the draft to first reading, the National Defence Committee discussed it at its meeting on 2 May and decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu Board include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu last week. The rapporteur was appointed here. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft and set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 24 May at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U471	Questions for the waitress. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U472	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! I hope you don't mind if I ask two questions at once. First of all, if the President of the Republic is to be informed immediately of the decision to increase defence readiness, how did he know so far? Secondly, the explanatory memorandum states that this draft has no impact on national security or external relations. How do you figure that out?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U473	Thanks to the questioner! Emergency situations are considered to be of a three-step nature: a heightened state of defence, emergency and martial law. And since the President also has a role to play in martial law, it is elementary that an increase in defence will be notified to the President. Why this was not included in the previous national defence law must be asked by the legislator at the time, but in this case, also in response to the wishes of the President and looking at the overall picture, it is elementary that the increase in defence will be notified to the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U474	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of Bill 209 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 24 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U475	We now begin the first reading of § 17 of the Water Act, which was initiated by the Environmental Committee, as amended by § 226 of the Water Act. The initiator's rapporteur is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U476	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of 18 April 2016, the Environment Committee decided to initiate a draft Act supplementing § 17 of the Water Act on the basis of our decision of 21 January 2016 of the Riigikogu to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, which he made on 1 December 2015. According to § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the Chairman of the Riigikogu instructed the Committee on the Environment to initiate the corresponding draft law. It is now proposed to supplement §17 41 of the Water Act: 'The Environmental Board may, taking into account the existence of a compelling reason, grant a permit for the use of water or exempt the barrier from the obligation of the owner of the fish. ' The Commission also took consensual procedural decisions, including setting the deadline for amendments to the draft by 25 May 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U477	Questions for the waitress. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U478	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Was there any discussion of what is meant by this compelling reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U479	Of course, we discussed it, and we discussed it for a long time. If we look at history, this issue has been dealt with twice in the Committee on the Environment. The right of consideration is given to the Environmental Board precisely so that they have the right to consider the requirements of both the National Heritage Board and the Environmental Board in order to find a solution that is suitable for all parties concerned. In particular, we do not, of course, include such a list of grounds in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U480	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There are no negotiating requests. On a proposal from the Commission, the first reading of draft 226 has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 25 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U481	The next item is the first reading of the draft law 239 on monitoring development initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Maris Lauri, the opening waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U482	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law on development monitoring. The content of the draft is broader than the monitoring of development. This is a draft that reorganizes the investment and monitoring activities that have been entrusted to the Estonian Development Fund so far. Chapters 1 and 2 of the draft act concern the content and organisation of development monitoring, Chapter 3 talks about the cessation of the development fund and Chapter 4 of the draft act, changes are made to the law on support for entrepreneurship and state guarantee for loans and to the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. The Act should enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State, but following the process of winding up the Development Fund, some parts of the draft law will enter into force on 1 January or 1 July 2017. I will now give a brief overview of the reasons for initiating the draft and of the content of the draft. The Economic Commission has discussed the activities of the Estonian Development Fund several times in the last 12 months and it has come to the understanding that the Development Fund, in its current form, must cease its activities. The Development Fund has been successful in several areas in its ten-year activities. In particular, success in developing risk investments and the environment for start-ups can be mentioned here. At the same time, the Development Fund has also been much criticised, sometimes fairly, sometimes unfairly. Monitoring activities in the initial years were replaced by significantly less ambitious activities after the change of management. In recent years, attention was drawn to areas too narrow, which should have been the focus of the ministries in particular. The Development Fund became a great deal of the Ministry's order-holder. There have also been complaints about the quality of monitoring and the use of money in the fund. However, I dare say that in the Development Fund, people have done their work with passion and in the best possible way. As a result of the discussions, the Committee on Economic Affairs realised that it would be logical for measures to support public enterprises to be at the same level of governance. This means that if grants are distributed in EAS and guarantees are granted to companies from KredEx, both of which are under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and more specifically under the direction of the Minister for Enterprise, then it should also be an investment activity of the state. As a result of the discussions, it was also considered that it would be best for investment activities to move through what the state supports to KredEx. If investments were transferred to KredEx, only the Observatory would remain in the Development Fund. This would be a public body, which would employ perhaps a dozen employees. This approach does not seem logical or reasonable, which is why, at the initiative of the Commission, a group of representatives of the political groups was set up to find solutions to issues related to development monitoring. The working group was dragged here by a speaker and attended by Krista Aru, Urve Palo, Ken-Marti Vaher and Mikhail Korb. Thank them very much for their meaningful cooperation. The working group found that it is important for Estonia to have a special organisation to monitor development at national level. As a result of several discussions, the working group was found and the conclusions reached were accepted by the Economic Affairs Committee that a Development Monitoring Centre should be established in Estonia under the authority of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The task of the Development Monitoring Centre is to draw up long-term forecasts for more than ten years. These perspectives must be cross-cutting and address the various aspects of social development in Estonia, but also take account of what is happening in the world. This means taking into account demographic processes as well as possible scientific and technical developments, environmental developments, etc. There is never 100 per cent certainty about the future, so different scenarios need to be drawn up and which ones are to be monitored and adjusted accordingly. Why is such a view of the future important? But because it gives society the opportunity to discuss the future, look for and find solutions to problems, plan activities to exploit opportunities in society and the economy. As has been said, the Development Monitoring Centre is independent in its core business, has an independent budget and has the power to plan and carry out activities. A five-member advisory chamber shall be set up at the Development Monitoring Centre, composed of recognised experts in science and technology. A panel shall be set up to ensure high quality and independence of monitoring. At its meeting on 9 May, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to initiate a draft law on monitoring development by designating me as rapporteur. The Commission proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 May and that the first reading be closed. The Commission also proposed five working days for the amendments. As the report was postponed, the deadline for amendments could be 5 p.m. on 25 May. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U483	Questions for the waitress. Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U484	Good President! Good waitress! We know that the Riigikogu has not commissioned any research from it throughout the activities of the Development Fund. That's gonna be my question. Why do you choose to bring the Development Monitoring Centre to the Riigikogu, which has not yet ordered it? Why not take him under executive authority, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U485	Thank you for your question. Yes, it is a fact that in a very large number of countries, the monitoring of development or similar activities have to be managed by the executive. In very many countries, however, it is the private sector's responsibility. However, in some countries it is a unit located with Parliament, for example, in Finland. We discussed very seriously what are the reasons why it could be located at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. We found it possible to ensure political independence in this way, and all the political groups and committees of the Riigikogu would then, at least in the long term, be familiar with the same information field, the same possibilities. Yes, it may not work, just as the Development Fund did not receive tasks from the Riigikogu. But I seriously hope that the Riigikogu, its political groups and also the public will work hard with the centre in building the system that we have proposed. I really hope that the Development Monitoring Centre will cooperate with society at large, including with the government and ministries, the Strategy Bureau of the State Chancellery, etc. It is very important that a wide range of actors are involved in this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U486	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U487	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have a simple question. The Development Fund has been operating for years. Can you tell me how much money the country has put into the Development Fund to support its activities and how much we have benefited from the fact that the Development Fund has been operating for years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U488	Thank you for your question. The EDF's investment activity has been so-called self-financing, it has not received any additional financing from the State other than the initial capital injection. As far as monitoring activities are concerned, I do not dare to say the exact amount that has been spent over all these years. The state budget allocation for this year is EUR 770000, compared to slightly less than a million last year. If you ask whether this activity has been practical and sensible, there have certainly been high-quality work done in certain areas. I can confirm that if there is a desire for quality analysis or research, it is relatively expensive work. People who do not come into contact with this area every day may find it difficult to understand. The economic benefits of monitoring cannot be measured directly, in particular through decisions taken on their basis. What have been the latest activities in monitoring development? Smart specialisation plans, energy economic development plan, bioeconomy development plan and a few others were prepared. Surely, important things have been done that have given substance to think and act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U489	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U490	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I have this question: how many permanent jobs are going to be created at the Development Monitoring Centre and how many different monitoring teams should work there at the same time? Do we already have an idea of how many sectoral monitoring activities could take place in one year, or is it a purely new centre manager's decision? Do the drafters have any idea of the capacity of the Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U491	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We are always talking about state reform and savings in government expenditure. What you think the Development Monitoring Centre should do is actually the work of the ministries. Over the past few years, there has been a tendency that if there is no desire to do anything in the ministry, a new entity will be created. If I understand correctly, the Committee on Economic Affairs will have one observatory, or, with the support of the state, some body with an annual budget of between EUR 700000 and million. There is a way forward: the Social Affairs Committee gets a social monitoring system or centre; the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gets the following. And that's how I'd distribute public money. Does it really make sense for us to keep a unit that hasn't worked for ten years so that we're happy with it? We are now setting up a centre with one committee, where we do not know clearly what it is going to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U492	Thank you, Aivar Chef! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U493	Thank you for your question. I'd say that. It is undoubtedly possible that a new organisation will not justify itself. We discussed very thoroughly in the working group whether we need development monitoring. I also stress that monitoring development is a long-term view forward and also a cross-cutting view. Ministries usually look one or two years ahead, in certain cases perhaps a little further. The only issue that really is being looked at very far in the analysis is the sustainability of the pension system. The rest of the views are still short-term, in the perspective of about five years, rarely longer. And they always look narrow, specific, they don't look wider. But that's what it really takes to analyze things in a complex, interconnected relationship. We're missing it now. Our working group found that the Estonian state needs to ensure that our whole life is not viewed in so-called different paragraphs, that social issues, for example, are not viewed separately and environmental issues, but that all things are looked at together, economic, social and demographic issues, the environment, how they relate to each other, how they affect each other. And I definitely need you to look far ahead. Like I said, we can't be 100 percent sure it's gonna work. We can never really be 100 percent sure of anything. I'm saying this as an economic analyst, you can't be that way by the odds. But we'll try. And if this really happens, it will probably turn out in a few years, that this solution will not work, then we will always be able to disband this centre. But we found in the working group that we should at least try one more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U494	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U495	Thank you. Dear Maris Lauri, When the Development Fund was established in Estonia, Finland's Sitra was taken as an example, which was established in 1967. So the next year will be 50 years, and the Finns will have kept it even if there is no economic development, for example, at the time of laying. In Estonia, the Development Fund has been weakened, the idea as such has not been supported. Do you agree with me that the very serious setback to the Development Fund was caused by Andrus Ansip's decision to take away Telecom's shares as a base on which they could develop their activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U496	Thank you for your question. I don't agree with you. The problems of the Development Fund have many different causes. Such organisations shall not fail on the basis of a single decision or on the basis of a single undertaking. When I am talking about some of the reasons that have been influenced by monitoring in the development fund specifically, I want to stress that the investment side has been successful. It has served its purpose. But time has passed, and now there are other assignments. In terms of monitoring, the first omission was that, after the change of management, the focus was not on monitoring development, but on specific narrow areas, moving away from the focus of action, looking at things differently, and so the wave began to roll. As a result, they failed. As far as the success or failure of other countries is concerned, yes, Sitra continues to act on Finns, but when it comes to opinions, it can be observed that there has also been an increase in dissatisfaction. You're no longer happy with everything they do there. All of this has been about how much money can be used and how and what tasks will be solved. In Finland, too, monitoring has shifted slightly to other areas. Next week, I hope we will meet with a representative of the Finnish Parliament who, as an official, will shed light on how they will carry out long-term analyses. There will be a conference on this topic in Finland on 8 June. So we will find out how monitoring is being carried out in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U497	Now Peter Ernits asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U498	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Tell me which of the most important tasks you would now set for this centre coming under the office of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. What kind of mission would really have a complexion? I hope these aren't some start-up stuff.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U499	Thanks for asking. In the case of the Development Monitoring Centre, the most important thing really is how the organisation will work internally and how the council will work. The role of the Economic Commission is primarily to be the link between the Centre for Development Monitoring and the members of the Riigikogu in order to have some kind of connection. The Commission is not the "full owner'. If we look at the Development Fund now, being formally under the authority of the Riigikogu, it is, to a very large extent, actually headed by the Minister of Enterprise. At the same time, there are certain glitches. One of the reasons why the Development Fund doesn't work properly is because it's like under dual control, which means that sometimes it feels like there's no driver at all, sometimes there's a little too many drivers. It's always confusing. Like I said before, you can't rest assured of everything. But I hope that the persons elected or appointed to the council want to do this work seriously, and I have been informed that there is an interest in it by indirect means. I have also talked about this with the names of potential members of the council, such as some members of the Academy of Sciences and the Council of Rectors, and I have the feeling that they still have an interest and a desire to make things work seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U500	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U501	Therefore, these three factors are, in my view, very important prerequisites in conjunction, so that we can talk about some progress in launching the Monitoring Centre for Development and its future work. I think that this second attempt should also be justified by the fact that we hope that we will still be able to ensure the constructive and fruitful work of the Development Monitoring Centre, the view of the development of the Estonian state, which no other organisation or any other branch of power can give at present. However, these views, which have been tried to assemble at one point in time or another, have been short-term and relatively narrow. But just as this draft has already sounded, we are still talking to a certain extent about giving peace and sufficient time to the Head of the Centre for Development, to these employees and also to the contractual partners, to create something that has not yet been created in Estonia by different organisations and institutions. This sounds idealistic and ambitious enough, but I think we need to give a chance, as a small country, to create something like this, primarily in order to capture the competitive advantage of the Estonian state compared to other countries and the factors of the successful use of this competitive advantage. It is difficult, but it is even more difficult to monitor competently whether we are on the right track and to draw the right conclusions from this competent monitoring and, where possible, change of direction in order to create better conditions for the future. Last but not least, I am dealing with the concept of development monitoring in this draft. It is written on a relatively large scale. We have ahead of us the Finnish model of Sitra, which has focused on its issues, highlighting three main directions: firstly, empowering society, i.e. how to make the state function as effectively as possible with taxpayers' money; secondly, intelligent use of resources and, thirdly, experience of sustainable prosperity, all sustainable prosperity in the long term. Our question as the draft procedure continues is, of course, whether, at the level of the law and Parliament, we want to clarify this direction of work of the Monitoring Centre for Development or leave it to the council to decide, so that the council gives a clear direction to the leader and his team. In any case, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, I think we could move forward and give it a second chance. Hopefully, this time we will also take into account the mistakes that have been made so far, and we will be able to give further impetus to the future success of the Monitoring Centre for Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U502	Mikhail Korb on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U503	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd also be happy to take part in today's debate. When paraphrasing one of the best-known sentences of Estonian literature, it seems that when the draft Act on Development Monitoring reached the Riigikogu Hall, the Development Fund had already finished. If we know why Arno's school was late, I do not believe that the reasons for completing the development fund have been sufficiently analysed so far. The fate of the Development Fund has been discussed for a long time, but this debate has been on an issue that is going to replace it, not on why the Development Fund has recently failed to meet our expectations. Instead of giving content to the development fund and finding specific functions for it, it is somewhere in the back room that the development fund must simply be closed down. The decision has been made that we do not need this knowledge. If, instead of discussing the fate of the Development Fund, we had contributed to solving the problems, then the Development Fund would certainly have been able to explore, for example, whether the chemical industry has a future in Estonia or how to preserve jobs in Ida-Viru County or stop emigration. Instead, the whole organization awaited a decision on its future destiny. Does Estonia need an organisation like the Development Fund? I'm sure you do. The Development Fund was created in the form of Finnish Sitra and was founded as an organisation whose task was to contribute to the development of the Estonian economy. It was the responsibility of the Development Fund to monitor world trends in the economy and advise politicians, but it seems that some politicians know already well how the Estonian economy must develop and the advice of economists is not needed. That is why we also have good economic indicators. In essence, this draft will put an end to the activities of one organisation and create a new unit at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu called the Development Monitoring Centre. I'm not sure the name change will solve the problems. The Estonian Development Fund Act provides that the highest governing body of the Development Fund is its board. Five of the nine members of the Council are appointed by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Economic Commission. Two of these five members are members of the Riigikogu and three are representatives of entrepreneurship and the public. In addition, the Government of the Republic appoints two members of the Council from among the members of the Government of the Republic. The practice so far has not contributed to the achievement of the objectives of the Development Fund, that the members of the Riigikogu are appointed to the Board of the Foundation only from among the government departments. There are four members of the coalition party in the Council and this has not been enough for the organisation to function successfully. It's about the inadequacy of the government coalition. I will finish my speech by repeating the position of our group: it is not a point to liquidate the development fund with an easy hand, but it must be given back the role for which it was created. It is thanks to strong development funds that countries such as Japan, Finland, Taiwan and Singapore have developed. The success stories of these countries and the ways in which they can succeed could also serve as an example for us. The Centre Party Group proposes to reject the draft at first reading. Can I hand over the rejection proposal to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U504	Yes, it can! But I listened to this performance and, honourable Riigikogu, I understand that it is late, but we are discussing draft 239. I'll draw your attention to that. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U505	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was terribly tempted to speak, listening here to all these previous speakers and to Mikhail in the end. And why did I want to take the floor? First of all, because I remembered that in May 1919, so very long ago, the Constituent Assembly here in the White Hall of Toompea Castle discussed what the Estonian state would need. It was a difficult time, there was no money, and then what did the Constituent Assembly decide? The Constituent Assembly decided that the state always needs to know where it comes from, to preserve its heritage and to respectfully preserve its past. Secondly, it is always necessary to be honest and fair in assessing the situations that exist in the present. Third, we need to know where you're going, where the country's going. True, at two o'clock in the morning, the most debate was about the railways that the country should quickly build to know where to go. And there was also a debate about how your mineral resources, especially oil shale, should be delivered quickly, where you should get an external loan to start your oil shale industry. And what was missed? There was a lack of appreciation for how to make a small Estonia a good, happy and, above all, a rich country. Now we are in 2016 and we should not question the need for development monitoring. Development monitoring is needed in the long term and one that offers us three or four different ways to become rich and happy and compete with others at the same time. We ourselves must have the competence to be able to decide, by choosing between these three or four options, whether the Development Monitoring Centre is needed for the Riigikogu. Yes, of course I do. It makes no sense for us to argue here at one o'clock tonight and analyse why the development fund finally went so badly. After all, we do not fall to the fact that we are going to blame the previous Riigikogu for not doing their work properly. Our task is to take advantage of the opportunity with the Development Monitoring Centre. We don't have to question whether it's necessary. In the presence of the Riigikogu, this helps us first and foremost. We also need not question whether competent people can be found at the centre. The monitoring part of the Development Fund has wanted to become its competence, both the Institute of Deep Studies of the Estonian Academy of Sciences and several other organisations. The fact that it's at the Riigikogu is our trump card. We need to be able to make use of it so that the next Riigikogu could not say that you see it was the Development Monitoring Centre, but it was not the user of it. Above all, we need to look at ourselves now, both in the committees and in the political groups, because we all know very well that the professions have changed, the world has changed around us. Today, we cannot say what this change means in the long term, which adjustments the Estonian state should perhaps make now. That's all we need for this Development Monitoring Centre. On behalf of the Free Party Group, I support both the need for the Development Monitoring Centre with its fuller tasks and the need for it to work right here at the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U506	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U507	Thank you for your question. As I said before, the Development Monitoring Centre is left with a considerable degree of autonomy in organising its activities, but, given what tasks it is entrusted to, there could be five or six permanent staff members who would then support the teams that are monitoring, in accordance with the task being set up. These monitoring activities could be predominantly project-based. Since there is a need to involve a wide range of professionals, people from a wide range of fields, there is no reason to expect these people to come to the centre for a major job. They could, for example, be involved in project-based temporary contracts, maybe public procurement or other measures. There are very different ways to implement the inclusion process. Some lessons can also be learned from the way in which monitoring was carried out in the early years of the Development Fund. Monitoring is generally expected to be carried out over seven to ten years with one major sectoral monitoring covering all processes and may be further initiated due to the need for more detailed monitoring. Very freely, it may be that, in the year in which this entity becomes operational, only preparatory activities are to be carried out. In particular, one major monitoring will be carried out next year and the next year and two or three smaller monitoring will be carried out. Perhaps in some years there will be fewer monitoring, in some years a little more, it will definitely depend on tasks and thematic orientations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U508	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U509	Thank you. Dear Maris Lauri, I have listened here to your explanations as to why the Development Fund must be shut down and a partial replacement structure set up for the Riigikogu. You also mentioned that at the Riigikogu this new structure would be politically independent. Would it not be easier to restore the Development Fund and its original idea and to ensure its political balance so that there are also opposition representatives in the Development Fund Council? According to the Riigikogu, there are not only representatives of the coalition. As long as I remember, perhaps in the last nine years in this Riigikogu, opposition representatives have always been voted down by electing members of the Council, and that is why the composition of the Council has clearly been one-sided. The Development Fund has not been given politically clear guidelines. Why did you give up to give the Development Fund back its initial idea and ensure its political independence through the involvement of the opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U510	Thank you for your question. The Development Fund, in its current form, is active in two areas: investment and monitoring. As I said, it is wise to place investment in the hands of the executive. As a result, the observatory would remain very small and it would not make sense to consider it as a separate body. Independence is ensured at the Development Monitoring Centre by the fact that neither members of the Riigikogu nor members of the government can belong to the council that will be in charge. It welcomes experts in research and development, technology and technology, people recognised in society, on the one hand, to ensure that monitoring is of a high quality, scientifically sound and thoughtful nature, and, on the other hand, to ensure that action is balanced in the sense that there are no political influences. Yes, the draft states at the moment that a member of the panel is appointed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, but the Committee on Economic Affairs is able not to endorse the action plans, but simply to hear certain issues. As we know, the opposition is also represented in the Committee on Economic Affairs, so that they will certainly have the opportunity to speak. I think it is very valuable that access to the results of the monitoring carried out is completely the same for all political groups, all committees, all members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U511	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U512	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In order to reorganize or change something, something should do wrong or not work at all. For a long time, the Development Fund was under the authority of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Can you name a task that the Committee on Economic Affairs has set up before the Development Fund and which the Fund has failed to do, so that it is facing such a sad fate that it will simply be put away?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U513	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, the Riigikogu, including the Committee on Economic Affairs, has not presented any monitoring tasks. I hope this will not happen, but it may happen that no Riigikogu committee or faction will now make any proposals for more specific or specific monitoring. There is therefore the possibility that these proposals may also be made by the Council, on the basis of the objectives set, on the basis of the tasks to be carried out. These tasks may be deduced by the monitoring unit itself, but proposals may also be submitted from outside. The choice of specific monitoring activities will be made by the council and will certainly be introduced to the Committee on Economic Affairs. The latter is also available to the political groups and committees of the Riigikogu. It all depends on which tasks are selected. The council will prioritise them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U514	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U515	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I want to continue on the question of Anne Sulling. You have been the representative of the executive, now you are in Parliament. One of the reasons why it is better that the Observatory is under the authority of the Riigikogu is that it is then politically independent. But I know that people in executive power think it's reasonable that it's a government institution. Perhaps, in addition to political independence, you will mention a few stronger arguments as to why he should be under our authority? And the second question. You expressed the hope that the political groups and MEPs would make monitoring proposals. The National Audit Office also asks the political groups every year for proposals, but usually they are not taken into account. Can't the same happen here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U516	Thank you for your question. I will answer the last question first. It can really happen that the council does not listen to what the Riigikogu offers or wishes. All orders must certainly be very well justified, it must be convincingly explained what is being sought out, what is the purpose of the study, which is to solve the problem. Just to say that I would like to know how many people will be born in Estonia in the next decade, this is not the subject of development monitoring. This is not an area that should be addressed. The topics must be cross-cutting and certainly well justified and considered. I hope that the council will consider, and if it misses something, it will either justify it or, in addition to a one-year plan, make a multiannual non-binding plan, for example, that if it does not arrive in one year, then perhaps next year or the next year, there will be some sort of work to do. Now the question is whether the centre must be with the executive or the Riigikogu. The decision that the unit must be located with the Riigikogu was a working group agreement. There are undoubtedly certain advantages of being with the executive power, such as the faster implementation of monitoring results or recommendations. At the same time, we found in the working group that, if there are such proposals that could be made to solve one problem or another, they can be taken into account by all the political groups and committees in their planning. This would be a common field of action between the opposition and the coalition, a common sphere of influence. There is such an optimistic hope that the Riigikogu will cooperate more closely.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U517	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U518	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! Once, when the Development Fund was created, much was said about Finland's example in the form of Sitra. Are we aware of any analogues from other parts of the world to this Development Monitoring Centre at the Riigikogu? Do any of Parliaments have such a centre working successfully, so that we can be guided by its good practice? Or is this our solution unique?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U519	Thank you! I already indicated that in a sense we are truly unique. If you look at the practices in different countries, there is no standard solution. If monitoring is carried out at all, I must point out that in most countries it is not dealt with, that monitoring is generally carried out only in wealthier or faster developing countries, it is often a function of the private sector or an executive power. Monitoring, of course, can be defined in different ways, but it contains two components: they are long-term and cross-cutting. In a very large number of countries, it is defined "technology-centred" and in some parts it includes some aspects of research development or environmental conservation. As a result, these solutions differ. We still have certain similarities with Finland, but in terms of organisation, ideas have also been plucked from the Netherlands and Sweden. He received many read and studied different solutions and plucked the best practices that could work well for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U520	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U521	Thank you. Good colleague! I have such a technical question. We are used to the fact that the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund comes here every year and gives an overview of what the Development Fund was doing. Now we are going to do the Development Monitoring Centre and take it to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. I have a question for you: who is going to do the report? And what will these five people do?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U522	This organisation is such that it is certain that this entity will be selected as the chief executive by means of a public competition, which will be announced by the Advisory Board. The council is the company that runs the business. He is subject to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, in particular on administrative matters, to contracts, premises, IT solutions, etc., but he is still under the authority of the Advisory Board in the substantive activities. As far as the work they do is concerned, the bill contains an obligation to notify the works they have done. At least once a year, there must be a large public engagement event, or a conference-like event, to which it would not have been called in the bill, as well as many other members of the Riigikogu. Why is it not written that the Head of the Centre must perform in this Chamber of the Riigikogu? The reason is that they have an obligation to appear in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I hope that the Commission will organise a public hearing to this end, which will showcase what work has been done. It is simply the feeling that perhaps not all members of the Riigikogu are interested in this subject. But the other thing is that since it is an institution under the authority of the Riigikogu that is directly connected with the parliament, committees and political groups are always entitled to invite representatives of the Centre to present their activities. I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will really be interested in the activities of this centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U523	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U524	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your previous answer. But on this previous answer, I ask you, wouldn't it be more appropriate to shut down the Development Fund, to give it tasks, and only if they can't handle them, to shut down the institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U525	Thank you for your question. Let's just say that the development fund has been tried in a way and in a way, and unfortunately, the development fund has a negative reputation in the eyes of very many people. It has been impossible to find a leader by law for several years. The manager is nominated by the board, not elected by the competition. No easily qualified or sufficiently high-level candidates have been found. It has also proved increasingly difficult to involve people there. There are very many serious reproaches. I have worked in the private sector for a very long time and seen how things are done in the private sector. I know that from time to time it is that even if an organisation or company has had a very good reputation in the past, but if at some point it has suffered from very serious problems, it is better to start off with a clean slate so that the reputation problems do not come along. I would remind you that a year ago, when the Committee on Economic Affairs was looking for a representative to the Council, several business organisations refused to appoint their representatives and expressed their wish for this fund to be dissolved. This is precisely because they no longer believed in the activities of the Development Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U526	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U527	Thank you for your question. In the early years of the Development Fund, very extensive monitoring was carried out, scenarios were sought for Estonia's future. Maybe you remember, they had colorful headlines: 'Southern Finland', etc. I think it is high time we had one of the great monitoring possibilities for Estonia's development. I'm sure it shouldn't wear such headlines. And it's entirely up to the doers to choose how they do it and how they start the process. I hope that the persons elected or appointed to the council will be able to ensure that this monitoring will be carried out in a very high quality and really meaningful manner, in order to provide us, the whole Estonian society, with a view to what Estonia's future scenarios could be, there will be three, four or five. These could be the most likely scenarios. And then we could see where we're going, what risks our society could be, what possible solutions could be to overcome the problems. But we can also see what opportunities we have. After receiving this big picture, more specific monitoring could come in areas for which we want more and more accurate information. Is it, for example, that I am completely arbitrary about how technology will affect our lives in our current middle age retirement, or in 20 years' time? In the future, pensioners will probably have slightly different interests than they are now. It's just the use of technology is different. How this affects, for example, the ageing process throughout society could be one issue. But there are a lot of choices, starting with how environmental developments affect, for example, industry and social development in society. There may also be such a link as to how climate warming affects the overall functioning of society, not just the economy, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U528	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U529	I'll keep going. It's nice to study and monitor, of course. It can be done forever. But as I heard, in the meantime, the Development Fund had lost its face, not even people were found to run it. Now I ask the Committee on Economic Affairs whether we have so many brains that we can ask the right questions. Just monitoring the impact of climate on education policy or whatever I think it is, that is not the aim. I'd still be waiting for some big task that would have a complexion and could be considered. Do we even have the potential to ask any such questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U530	Thanks for asking. The Development Monitoring Centre will be attended by an advisory board, to which serious specialists in their area should be mentioned. It should include five people and one of them should be appointed by the Estonian Academy of Sciences. The second denominator is the Council of Rectors. I very much hope that both institutions will refer to a person with a very solid academic background who, in addition to being able to raise questions, I admit that I myself cannot raise good questions, especially in this panel to think of them quickly, is able to formulate precisely the task set out by my own organisation so that we can understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U531	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U532	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In some ways, Peter Ernits snatched my question, asking if we have enough smart and creative and inspiring people to work at this center. But I'd argue with him: I'd say there is, of course. Of course it is! We are still a quite capable country in this sense. But what personal qualities do you prefer when you choose people there? I understand that there are very creative people, well-informed people, very competent people in some areas. Is there any way to sum up? You said that people with a solid academic background were welcome, but in other parts of the world, creative people are also planning future scenarios.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U533	Thanks for asking. Such people with a broad vision would be expected in the council from different fields, including entrepreneurship, science and society at large. There is, however, a small permanent group of workers, among whom there could be people who have an analyst background, for example in socio-economic fields, or who are good at managing projects, or who have a little more practical experience. And then there are definitely people who will be involved in specific surveillance. As I said, monitoring will cover a wide range of areas, and we certainly have, I agree, very talented people, but there are just few of us in number. This means that we cannot take people from the University of Tartu or the Academy of Sciences to the Centre's salary, but we should assume that these people will contribute to the analysis of these monitorings in another form and precisely in the field that is needed for specific monitoring. They thus contribute to their knowledge. I hope that the people in the council will also be able to attract people with competence and knowledge to monitoring. Surely this also requires that the CEO of the Monitoring Centre for Development is a person who is able to contact the right people and involve them in monitoring activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U534	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U535	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! How can we be sure that the Committee on Economic Affairs will be able to manage this new centre better than the development fund so far? You said you hoped that the formation of the council would save the situation. Is there any reason to believe that the capacity of the Economic Commission will increase and that this centre will actually work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U536	Thank you, Mr President. I want to pay tribute to Maris Lauri at half a night for this extremely professional and very thorough preparatory work and to recommend to all other members of the Riigikogu that the work that Maris has done is extremely thorough. I don't have a question, I just wanted to take an exceptional opportunity to thank Maris at half a night.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U537	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U538	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Ken-Marti Vaher Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U539	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I must say frankly that I would certainly give a new opportunity to monitor development. This is really another test. We must admit that this test is certainly not without risks, there are quite a number of risks. But it seems to me that, being a small country and trying to find our place in the environment that surrounds us, it is important that we have an institution that can adequately and competently formulate visions and developments and, to some extent, anticipate future developments so that we can be more successful as a small country. What we can do as a Parliament is that we have already done in many ways in preparation for this draft. First, we have tried to learn from mistakes. Our working group has tried to create an environment to give constructive and really fruitful monitoring of development an opportunity to grow. In my opinion, there are three most important success factors that should be characteristic of the Development Monitoring Centre. If these success factors exist in any way and their impact increases over time, I think we are on the right track. The first is sufficient resources. Without sufficient money, it is not possible, as has been the case here today, to motivate a number of talented people, to encourage them to think about development monitoring and the future scenarios of the Estonian state, and to contribute to making certain trends and trends better thought out and brought to decision-makers' tables. If we stick together here, and this savings wouldn't be that big, then it's probably not going to work. This resource, which is allocated to the Development Fund for monitoring development, could be a clear starting point, and time will explain whether there is a need for an annex to it or whether it will be possible to manage this amount over the next few years. The second factor is certainly a strong leader. Finding a strong leader is always a headache and a very difficult task, especially for the council, which is going to solve this task. Inevitably, the Development Monitoring Centre is the face of the leader. The leader completes the team, is able to launch the work processes and a well-functioning organizational culture, from which the flowers that we hope we can all taste the fruits of, not for a short time, but rather for a long time. The third factor is the authority, in particular the authority arising from competence, which we have tried to sign up for in this draft. There are five members in the council, and this is a small enough number to be able to ensure that these people are clearly motivated and well-informed by public attention and spotlight, so that they are interested in this work. Secondly, it allows the parties whose representatives form the council to be bound, be it the President of the Republic or the Estonian Academy of Sciences. They need to understand that the one person who gets assigned there is not assigned to not just ex officio or to fill the place. These people must certainly be able to add value and be jointly responsible for the success of the Development Monitoring Centre. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-18_U540	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the Economic Commission is, of course, to conclude the first reading of the draft which it has initiated. The Centre Party Group has proposed to reject the draft 239 at first reading. And this is a proposal that deserves to be voted on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Centre Party Group's proposal to reject the draft law on monitoring development at first reading 239. Please take a stand and vote. 22 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the proposal, 51 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Bill 239, first reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5 p.m. on 25 May.
