ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start Riigikogu briefing. First, please, let's do the presence check! 37 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 64 are missing. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of State Administration Arto Aas and Minister of Finance Sven Sester participate in today's Question Time. Six members of the Riigikogu have registered to ask questions, so only two questions registered on the spot can be submitted during the discussion of each topic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U2	Let's get to the questions. The first question is from Riigikogu member Artur Talvik to Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski in the duties of Prime Minister. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U3	Good President! Good minister! I am delighted to see you again in the Prime Minister's duties, but it is sad to see the Prime Minister himself as a lunar eclipse in this briefing. But that's not my main question. My main question is to you as Minister of Health and Labour. A few days ago, a scandal exploded in the North Estonian Regional Hospital, which has been said to have been up for over a year. My question to you is how much did you know about this thing? How well informed were you, and does this scandal really look like what the press says?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U4	Thank you. Indeed, unfortunately, law enforcement authorities have raised doubts about the activities of the leaders of Estonia's largest health institution in pre-trial proceedings. Of course, Estonian health care is a key service for Estonian people, Estonian society, so it is self-evident that the use of state budget funds, taxpayers' funds must be based solely on the interests of the patient and the use of funds must be fair and transparent. The Ministry of Social Affairs had not been informed that the law enforcement authorities were in the process until the police memo was received on 10 June, which in the future became more visible to the public. Even today, as a minister, my knowledge of the content of suspicions is not much greater than what has already been published in the press. It is true that the chairman of the board, Tõnis Allik, after I had appointed the Minister of Health and Labour, informed me that he had made statements to the police on one matter, but since no official signal was received from the law enforcement authorities to the Ministry of Social Affairs, there was no reason for the Ministry to take any action in this matter, as the law supervises the activities of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U5	Thank you. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U6	Thank you for your answer. Do you not find it strange that the investigation has been carried out for over a year now, even though the police themselves could have come up with this matter much earlier? Have there been any further information or new accusations this year? Why was it held for so long? I have to say right now that it makes it look like they're trying to make accusations against Tõnis Allik or, for some other reason, to bring it up right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U7	Thank you. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice are likely to be better able to respond to procedural procedures. As far as I know, in examining such matters, the procedural practitioners choose themselves. It is indeed up to them to decide, as well as when it is ripe to go into the public phase of the procedure. Of course, there is a presumption of innocence in Estonia, which means that every person, including Tõnis Allik, has the right to stand up for his or her rights both in pre-trial proceedings and in court. I don't have any information at the moment about how far the police procedure is. However, I think that it is reasonable in itself to move to a 'public phase' with proceedings, which will certainly involve a wide discussion and often a condemnation of persons even before the courts have made their decisions to ascertain, however, whether the suspicions they put forward have so much substance that they can be protected in court. I assume that since the police have now reached a public phase with suspicions, the investigators have the conviction that the collected material is a sufficient basis for proving the guilt in court. But once again, justice is passed by the court in the Republic of Estonia, so let's wait for the next steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U8	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U9	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Indeed, the fact that such a corruption has occurred in the North Estonian Regional Hospital is very regrettable and deeply insults the patient. At the same time, however, this is just a matter of suspicion, isn't it? We don't know exactly what this is about, because all the information comes from the press. And you yourself said that we can't condemn anyone until the trial has taken place. Is it really necessary to remove a person from the job without waiting until the charges arrive? I understand it wasn't the court, but it was you on the first day you found out, that you replaced the person.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U10	Thank you. True, I agree completely. According to the law, we have a presumption of innocence and a court of justice. On the other hand, it is understandable and clear that, although it is a private foundation, the hospital manager is, in essence, a public office with higher ethical and moral standards. Compliance with the law is mandatory for all, but there are also many higher ethical standards in public office. As a minister, I consider it important that the reliability of Estonian health care, including the reliability of the management of health care, is not affected by such incidents and suspicions. That is why the Ministry of Social Affairs made the necessary decisions on Monday. On the same day, I appointed Chancellor Marika Priske of the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Board of the Foundation. This morning, we called an extraordinary meeting of the Council, which took place at 10 a.m., and Marika Priske was elected the head of the Supervisory Board there. Tõnis Allik's explanations of what happened were also heard. Mr Allik announced his resignation, in particular in order not to undermine the hospital's rehabilitation in the framework of the proceedings. I think that decision made sense. The Council also instructed the Audit Committee to carry out an extraordinary audit, in particular on the organisation of the mission of the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital, in order to determine the circumstances of the case. In the near future, the results will also seriously analyse how possible conflicts of interest and risks of corruption can be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U11	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U12	Thank you. I have a two-part question. First of all, don't you think it's a little weird that one person is now crucified in the media, he's also out of office, but at the same time, the hospital's big college has been making statements to protect him, taking pictures of himself in one picture with him, and so on? It's kind of funny. And the other half of the question. You mentioned that healthcare is an important service provided to the people. Tell me when health care is a service. Is it not the responsibility of the state to provide medical care to a person? It can't be called a service, and it's been said for a long time, but you're still saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U13	Thank you. This is certainly a duty, including a constitutional obligation, but this particular obligation is fulfilled as a service, as a medical service. The word'service' is not bad at all, it is not worth creating an excessive problem. Now, as far as the first question is concerned, I will repeat once again, as I have already pointed out, that according to the law, the board of directors is supervised by the Audit Board. In the light of new events or new information, we strengthened it with the Chancellor of the Council of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Today's Council meeting discussed what happened and wondered how to proceed in the interests of the public and the hospital, in particular. The chairman of the board, Tõnis Allik, decided to resign himself in order to focus on defending his rights. I think it was a dignified step and it should be recognised.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U14	Thank you. I will finish answering the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U15	Let's keep going. The second question is addressed to Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U16	Thank you. Minister of Finance! Looking at the decisions made by the government in recent years, it is often the impression that only Excel's table is considered and that contact with real life is rather superficial. This year, the decision taken by your government to increase the excise duty on diesel by 14% entered into force. Any person who has fallen into Latvia after taking a decision, for example, has been able to admit with his own eyes that, as a result, the price difference between diesel fuel in Estonia and Latvia is 12 cents per litre to the detriment of Estonia. I understand that as Minister of Finance you must certainly support tax increases, because there is hope that many people will still consume more expensive goods and tax money will come to the state budget. But imagine for a moment that you are an entrepreneur, such as a transporter, who is transporting goods in Europe. In this case, where would you recommend that drivers fill their thousand-litre tanks in Estonia or Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U17	Thank you, dear questioner. When we are talking about the collection of excise duty as a whole and, more specifically, the excise duty on fuel, I, as Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, stated last year that the increase in excise duty is intended to predict both what cross-border trade will take place and how it will affect consumption, as well as what the potential share of the secret market will be. If we look at the current state of affairs, it makes more sense for us to speak not from the background of assessments, but from the basis of concrete facts. Looking at the facts, we see that excise duty is almost 20% higher in the first five months than in the first five months of last year. Yes, we can say that we now have larger stocks than last year, because there were virtually no stocks last year. However, if we take as a basis the estimated budget receipts, which were repeated in this Parliament before the summer leave, by approving the state budget in the autumn of last year and also by processing the draft law on this issue, we will see that almost 10% more has been received by now. We will monitor very closely the behaviour in the logistics sector, but also in cross-border trade. And I think that in the autumn, it is also time to look at the situation arising from the realisation of stocks. Now we see that the receipts are even better than we have calculated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U18	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U19	Thank you. Your answer was that many companies have not yet moved their refueling to Latvia. Indeed, public transport companies and private consumers are paying the higher tax imposed. But the tax increase is scheduled for the next year and the next year. The Centre Party Group has proposed that this be deleted. Today, the Estonian Employers' Confederation also joined our proposal, who told Taavi Rõivas that instead of raising excise duties on fuel, a mistake should be recognised and returned to last year's rates. According to the Central Union, tax increases will not help in any way if there is a desire to improve the business environment. They recommend 'turn back' the increase in excise duties on fuel and also say that if more and more transport companies go to Latvia and if consumption is already reduced by 10%, the Estonian state will lose 45 million euros in excise duty and VAT. If the consumption of diesel is reduced by 15%, then it is minus 70 million already. What should happen to the government to admit that it was wrong to raise excise duties on fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U20	Thank you. I think there is not only my assessment here, but also the language of the facts. I can say that the government has worked during this year to ensure that the Estonian business environment is competitive, that the Estonian people have a good place to live and that they want to be in Estonia. The very clear tax policy direction of the government has been to reduce labour taxes and increase potential environmental taxes or consumption taxes on the basis of tax neutrality. We must also look at the overall picture of what will be next year, but also the monetary victory of both employers and employees over the next four years. Employers can use this money either to invest or to pay salaries. As far as excise duties are concerned, let us recall the discussion last year. Although a four-year increase in excise duty was originally planned, the government cancelled the fourth year increase during the proceedings, bringing a draft to this effect to the Riigikogu. For now, as you know, only a three-year increase has come into effect. Surely we should not draw conclusions on the basis of the behaviour of people in one or another particular border town or the sale of a border gas station, because this cannot be the basis for macro-image analysis. A large analysis would give us a picture of the general behaviour in excise policy. As I mentioned, excise duty has now been better received in five months than in five months of last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U21	Thank you. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U22	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Recently, we were able to read an article. Later, it became clear that the story was a bit flawed, as it had been recorded one year ago about how the Minister of Finance went to the government and proposes to reduce the increase in excise duties on fuel and to cancel the increase in VAT on accommodation facilities. It's very sad that it turned out to be a mistake. I had hoped that the Minister of Finance had drawn the right conclusions so quickly. When does the government plan to seriously analyse the results of tax changes made to the cluster bill adopted a year ago and whether they have had the effect on people's behaviour that the government has wanted? When will such an analysis take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U23	Thank you. You asked me about an article that I noticed. The truth is, it was brought down that the Minister of Finance was going to the office. Last year, while this article was being written, the Minister of Finance went to the office and proposed possible tax relief. And according to the Minister of Finance, he also found possible sources of cover, since at first both higher VAT on hotels and the fourth year's increase in excise duty had been expected. At the moment, we have agreed, and it is also very clearly fixed, that, first of all, we are monitoring monthly tax receipts. The government does not work with eye flaps; we look very closely at the tax receipts per month, not just the collection of excise duties on fuel. I would rather say to you that I am a little more concerned about the collection of a stronger excise duty on alcohol, which really needs to be said that the collection does not correspond to an earlier assumption. As I mentioned in the case of fuel, the excise duty has now been collected more than our earlier budgeting, not to mention last year. So we follow it every month. In the autumn, we will certainly be smarter that the stocks will then be reduced from daily activities and excise duty receipts and real consumption will be identical, and this is not the case at the moment. According to this, we make decisions, i.e. based on pure analysis, not estimates. The facts are very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U24	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In answering one question, you used the words 'big analysis' and said that this cannot be done on the basis of a single border gas station. I couldn't agree more. But my point of view is that it is probably necessary to carry out a major analysis of where long-distance cars are refueling in Estonia or Latvia. Has such an analysis been carried out and can we also conclude how much Estonia loses? Because the 12-cent diesel price difference with Latvia still seems very high. You will probably also make regular forecasts of what neighbours are doing with their excise rates. So what happens in the future? Are we taking any steps to eliminate the price difference with Latvia, or do you think it is normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U26	Thank you. Like I said, you have to look at things in full. Just a few days ago, I read that as Helsinki and Tallinn are border cities, Finns in turn go to Estonia to buy fuel, as prices in Finland are more expensive than in Estonia. In the same way, you might ask whether Finland is making strong returns because some of the citizens of Helsinki go to Estonia to buy fuel, not to mention alcohol excise duties. Surely we need to look at the whole picture. I think that the autumn, as I mentioned, is the best time in this context, after the disposal of stocks, we will find out what the actual monthly consumption and the resulting revenue from fuel excise duties will be. We will, of course, monitor how our neighbours behave and how the business sector works, as well as our border trade, from which our citizens who live near the border buy. All these nuances should be taken into account. And also what the potential secret market is going to be, must pay attention to the rise in excise duty, because there is also the interest of the government that Estonian entrepreneurship should develop. Decisions have been taken with this aim, also last year, and, as you know, one major step has been to reduce labour taxes, which both workers and employers have an interest in. Let us look at the comparison with our neighbours both in the Nordic countries and in Latvia-Lithuania, how we are in the context of labour taxes. Let us look at the whole picture!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U27	Thank you. I will stop answering the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U28	As the third questioner is not in the Chamber of Jaak Madison, we will move on to the fourth question. Andres Herkel has asked the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U29	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! My question concerns the report 'Competitiveness 2.0', which the Ministry of Justice has drawn up with the help of specialists from various parties, i.e. business organisations, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. There are a total of about 20 proposals concerning tax changes. Most of them seem sympathetic, and at least some of them, as we understand, have also been supported by the Ministry of Finance. Would you first of all give an overview of the tax changes that the Government of the Republic is actually planning to take to work - the ceiling and floor of social tax, the abolition of special preferential tax, etc.? Is it just for the whining of warm air, or are you planning to come before us with draft laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U30	Thank you. Oh, no, hardly any warm air comes from here, only concrete and real steps will come. If you have noticed what the government has done over the past year, these are very fundamental decisions. Thank you for the opportunity to introduce some of the activities that the Minister of Justice has brought to the government office for discussion. It's no joke. Over 60 proposals have been made to us, we have listened constructively to business organisations in a good way. And, as you rightly mentioned, as always in life, particularly with regard to taxation, a number of proposals relate to tax incentives. I'd basically divide them into three groups. Firstly, a group of actions on which proposals have already been made and on which the government has also taken its decisions. Secondly, a group of actions on which proposals have been made and on which the government is working. Third, disagreements. You wanted to know more about what is now in work and what has been realized. One such proposal is certainly a level-training proposal. The companies proposed that the level training should not be linked to a special benefit. It has now been passed as a law. It was also proposed that the transport of workers should not be covered by the special incentive. But now the proposals that have been made by businesses and which have received the confirmation of political will in the government office, and which we hope to come before you as a matter of urgency. A few keywords. Special benefit for health promotion expenditure, which has been discussed at length by the employer in terms of the employee's expenditure on sport and health. We have now agreed on this: EUR 400 per year, EUR 100 per quarter. The bill is now under preparation, and in the near future, it will reach you. Within the next question, I understand, I can continue to answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U31	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You can really give some examples on the subject of the special advantage, which were at first also in the coalition agreement, but there were still enormously more proposals. The free party was disappointed last week and also this week, namely both our drafts on both the introduction of a social tax ceiling and the abolition of the minimum social tax rate, which would boost the labour market, were rejected. I still don't understand the position of the Treasury Department. Here I read that the Ministry's Public Procurement and State Aid Department has supported the introduction of a maximum social tax rate, while the Government of the Republic's position was to reject this proposal. It was found that in the medium term this revenue might not be generated. So there are completely contradictory positions. What is the government's real position?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U33	Thank you. No, the government has no conflicting positions, the government always has one clear position, which it also makes known. I am about to get to your question, but first of all, as the final answer to the previous question, a number of more than 60 proposals from businesses are currently on the government table. We have agreed that reverse charge will come in the construction sector, and a specific draft will come before you. We are looking for ways to make participation options more flexible. We've met market participants. I think there will be an office agreement on this in the near future. This is not yet the case, but I, as Minister of Finance, will prepare it as a memorandum and I hope that the agreement will come and reach you as well. It is also proposed to amend the tax rules applicable to the benefits of the transfer of foreign ownership and to introduce the driving diaries of employers' passenger cars. There are quite a number of similar ideas. With regard to the ceiling of social tax, you gave an example of Latvia before, you know, in Latvia today, the situation is that the ceiling was introduced, but no new high-quality and well-paid jobs were created. Now, for all of us, it is a question for you, as a Member of Parliament, as well as for the government, of how to implement one or another measure as effectively as possible. What do I mean by that? Introducing a social tax ceiling in this order of magnitude, as you proposed, would amount to close to 100 million euros as a direct cost to the Estonian taxpayer. Now the question is whether this will bring us high-paid workers. For me, there is a discussion place that I would like to discuss with you in the future whether we should start doing this more purposefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U34	Minister, the time to answer a question is not rubber, just like the state budget. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U35	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! There is no need for a very long memory to remember that the introduction of a social tax ceiling is one of the ways proposed by the IRL to boost economic growth. I don't think it was ever born in discussions without your involvement. Have you, in the meantime, become so much smarter in Latvia that you say that it does not work anymore, but those business organisations that still support it have not yet built up such wisdom? What is it, Minister? Explain briefly and folkally.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U36	Thank you. No, of course not. We are very clearly in our positions and, in time, we will improve our principles. Let us remember the debate on the tax-free minimum that went to Estonia. If we wanted to raise the tax-free minimum to EUR 500 for all workers who are on the Estonian labour market, it would cost Estonian taxpayers hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros. It is unlikely that such money could be taken from the state budget so quickly. So what did we do? We have launched a tax refund for low-wage earners on the IRL proposal, which has now entered into force. This means that the tax-free minimum rose for those who needed it most. It follows from this that, when we talk about it today, and also when we think about the ceiling on social tax, we would most likely like to approach the debate from the competition of how the state of Estonia would benefit most. I think that would be something we could now debate, because raising a specific ceiling, which was also included in your proposal, would be an immediate budgetary cost of 100 million, a potential future income, but it would come from creating higher-paid jobs. I think we could discuss in the near future, for example, how to create jobs for temporary arrivals and how to make Estonia more attractive to create more paid jobs, but it should always be based on the fact that it is taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U37	Thank you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U38	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! During the debate on the reform of government, employers and entrepreneurs have brought forward as one of the disadvantages that the government and its institutions lack courage, ambition. The Ministry of Finance becomes increasingly important in this process, especially in terms of state reform, and takes the dimensions of the super ministry. Can you tell us what the real purpose of the Government of the Republic is in tax policy, or what you can say is that it is ambitious? If it's not there, what's behind it? Are there no partners, or do you not have a thought flight in your party? What's that behind?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U39	Thank you. Well, I'm sure I'll level out your super ministry rhetoric. I think all ministries are very important in this government, and the Ministry of Finance is not going to stand out here in any way. If you are asking about ambition, look at what is really going to happen in four years, not just in words, but according to the country's budgetary strategy. Between 2017 and 2020 businesses and employees will receive nearly EUR 800 million, thanks to the increase in the tax-free minimum due to the fall in social tax, due to the fact that the tax refund for low-paid workers has been introduced. 800 million! Well, if it's unambitious, I'd ask you back. I think that this objective, which Estonia's current coalition has set itself, is linked to economic recovery, security and children and families. I would like to remind you here of the issues relating to children and families, such as child benefits from a third child, i.e. special targeted support to stimulate the arrival of a third child in the family. Is this a little ambitious? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U40	Thank you. I will stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U41	Let's move on to the next question. Raivo Põldaru has presented it to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, in the capacity of Prime Minister. Please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to expand a little on the first question. The question is this: how do you feel about the services provided to medical workers, where their trade fair trips and sometimes holiday trips are paid by the caller, the bidder?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U43	Thank you very much. Across the world, including Estonia, it is common for medical professionals, medical institutions to cooperate with pharmaceutical companies and other companies that develop medical services or devices in other ways or contribute to the development of global health care. The general objective of these companies is actually to obtain on-site clinical expertise in order to test their inventions for further development. All of this is essential for the development of medicine. In this context, it is understandable and global practice that health professionals also attend global conferences with the aim of educating themselves and, as a result, providing a better service to the patient. On the other hand, it is understandable that this may involve some risks of tilting health professionals, say, in clinical decisions. This is not acceptable or acceptable in any way, as doctors, more generally the entire medical staff and health care institutions, must only be guided by the interests of the patient when making their decisions. As a result, § 86 of the Estonian Medicines Act regulates quite precisely the extensive restrictions in order to ensure the transparency of these decisions. A disclosure agreement also entered into force on 1 June this year, in which the manufacturers of medicinal products belonging to the association have also announced the benefits granted to doctors by name. It's, I think, very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U44	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I will once again return to the first item on the agenda and ask that the police also made some proposals to the Ministry. How do you feel about them, some of them can be carried out? What do you think of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U46	Thank you very much. The proposals have indeed come to us, and most of them are those that we have been discussing in the ministry for a long time. It is clear that medicine is prone to conflicts of interest and risks require leadership and prevention. Therefore, we are currently drafting more specific guidelines for Estonian health care institutions in the Ministry. We call it different in different processes, but we can see in itself that each hospital should have a clear plan of action and also a general policy on how the budget is managed, conflicts of interest are prevented and potential risks of corruption are mitigated. Most of the proposals are on the table. We will certainly be better able to formulate our proposals on the basis of the latest news from the North Estonian Regional Hospital and the audits carried out there. For our part, we congratulate the police on their willingness to contribute to this work. So there are some concrete proposals, as I said, already in work. More specifically, this can be discussed in the second half of the year when we have discussed the expectations of the state by hospital and set requirements. Increased disclosure of budget implementation on the websites of healthcare institutions is certainly also appropriate and we will continue to work on the proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U47	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Pharmaceutical companies have many options. One way really is to sponsor medical workers or doctors, as was the case with the title of the question, but the other is to advertise their products. My question is that it is currently impossible for pharmaceutical companies to advertise their medicines in, for example, medical journals. Patients' organisations, such as rheumatitis or diabetes, regularly issue their magazine. It is not possible for pharmaceutical companies to buy advertising space there. However, in the case of technical or medical aid, there are no restrictions, in which case advertising can be carried out. In a sense, pharmaceutical companies are being deprived of the opportunity to support the patient organisation, the issue of its magazine, for example by buying advertising space. Do you consider such a situation reasonable and justified, or could it be analysed a little bit and, if necessary, changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U49	Thank you. Drug advertising is undoubtedly a sensitive issue, because it is one of those areas where there are very large global business interests on one side and patients' health interests on the other side. They usually come together, but they don't always. It is therefore the role of the state to establish such regulation as to give priority to the interests of the patient. This is also the reason why the advertising of medicines in Estonia is limited. And we will also see, when we speak to health professionals, that advertising is clearly one of the influences in people's purchases of medicines, but not always towards the rational use of medicines. Advertising affects people, that's why it's done. However, decisions on the use of medicines should be made by a qualified specialist, a doctor or pharmacist, rather than a pharmaceutical company. That is why restrictions are in place. It is true, however, that there are bottlenecks in the current legislation on advertising for medicinal products. The Ministry is also currently preparing a plan for the revision of the pharmaceutical law, which is likely to reach the stage of the public procedure in the second half of this year. It will then be possible to discuss these options more widely. But once again, in the national view, the primary task is to ensure that the interests of patients are taken into account, and that also means the rational use of medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U50	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U51	Let's keep going. The next question is put by Andres Ammas to Minister of State Administration Arto Aasa. Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U52	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! It has been heard and read that on 30 June you will go before your colleagues in the government to continue discussing the issue of administrative reform and gradually start with the issue of state reform. It has been heard and read about the regions as well. Prior to the adoption of these decisions, the county elders have already confirmed, allegedly by consensus, their support for, for example, the plan of six regions instead of four, etc. I offer you the opportunity to give a lecture here in a minute and a half on the topic for which Estonia will need administrative regions in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U53	Thank you. The information is true. We will continue to work on both the reform of self-government and the reform of government, and on 30 June we will go to the government office to present the next steps, including plans for reform of state government. We have prepared for six months a single audit of the country's tasks, with ten areas of focus. One of these is the reorganisation of rural governments and the future of regional administration in general. The topic we are dissecting, on which we have analysed and identified problems and offered solutions to them are rural governments. What's the problem now? Major changes have taken place in recent years, but somehow by default, i.e. not very systemically. However, we can see that the number of rural government tasks has decreased, the availability and quality of services provided by rural governments vary well across 15 counties. On certain issues, the county level has remained too narrow, be it planning or public transport. This governance model, where the county government has several functions and several bosses, where certain sectoral changes come from the ministries and at the same time belong to the Ministry of Finance, is confusing and the tasks are fragmented. There are a lot of problems. The rural elders themselves have also come to the conclusion that the current model is unlikely to be reasonable or sustainable and have proposed six regional agencies instead of 15 rural governments. But there are other options under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U54	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U55	Thank you! It is, in itself, a very interesting fact that the county elders themselves have proposed regions to replace the counties. Can't one reason be that the ministries and agencies are undoubtedly, let's say, direct, more comfortable and easier to communicate with not 15 counties in the identity of the county elders, but four or six I don't know which officials, governor of regions or regions, or whatever name they're gonna be? Isn't that just making life comfortable under the optimization label?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U56	Thank you. Let me first point out that neither the Ministry of Finance nor the county authorities have proposed the abolition of the county. The counties were, are and remain. Historically, culturally, and also as administrative units, they may remain. Above all, we are talking about administrative reform, governance reform. Saaremaa will still be Saare County, Võrumaa will remain Võru County and so on, no one will cancel it. The availability of services in the counties in the future must certainly also be ensured. The events will continue to be organised in the counties and statistics will still be collected by county. We are talking, above all, about administrative reform, because it has been shown that it makes sense to organise work differently. Rather, today there is a need for larger regions, such as South-East Estonia, Virumaa, North-Estonia or West-Estonia with its islands. Larger regions work better. But I would like to stress that, along with the possible reorganisation of rural governments, we are seeing a number of further developments that need to be decided at the exact same time. Firstly, the concept of state buildings in county centres and major cities creates public buildings where all the services provided by the state can be obtained in a uniform manner. It is very important that services do not distance themselves from people. Where exactly these public buildings are managed at regional level, it is no longer so important for a simple citizen and service user. Secondly, the removal of institutions and jobs from the capital. It's one of our government's tasks, and that's what we do. In this area, too, we are presenting initial analyses and getting more detailed. And thirdly, promoting teleworking. Not all people need to come to Tallinn by the beginning of the week, but they can work peacefully on the Internet, also via communications in Hiiumaa, Valgamaa, Narva or anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U57	Thank you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U58	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Your last response revealed that there is now an additional level of management. You said the county governments weren't going to disappear, the regions were going to come along. Looks like it's gonna be a big mash and cabbage. When will you come up with a specific solution.. which are the tasks of the local government, which are the tasks of the county government, which are the tasks of the region and which are the tasks of the government resulting from it? You have promised on your website that in the context of the administrative reform, you will also come up with proposals for local government tasks and revenue base. When are they coming? We have already carried out one reform here in the Riigikogu, but the main questions are still unresolved and your responses today give the impression that it is becoming even more confusing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U59	Thank you. It won't get any messier. We have the whole picture, and first we discuss it in the government for the first time at the end of June. Parliament will not meet in the summer, as we know, but we will continue with you in the autumn with the greatest pleasure of discussing this issue. I said that there is a probability under discussion that rural governments will be reorganized in their current form, but they will remain. Just as the administrative reform preserves cities, rural municipalities and villages, i.e. towns and villages as settlement units, counties remain, even if, for example, there are three counties. In this sense, a distinction must be made between what a county is and what a rural government is: only one is a state institution. There's a picture. When we go to the government to discuss the future of regions and rural governments, we also think about what to do in the municipality landscape. In the same package, in fact, it is precisely this arrangement that you have mentioned, too, what the central government is doing in the regions that are being carried out in the municipalities. We see it as a whole. In the summer we will continue to work in the government, and in the autumn we will be able to come back to Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U60	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Minister Arto Aas! Administrative reform has an impact on the development of the regions. At the same time, as the result of this reform, we want to increase the role of local governments in promoting the life of Estonia. Do you, Mr Minister, see the need to promote small entrepreneurship in our regional economy, including agriculture? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U62	Thank you. Indeed, we are analysing all options for increasing the role of local authorities in the future. The fact that they are larger and more financially capable alone gives them additional tasks along with the finances. We see that the reorganisation of rural governments should enable all the tasks that can be assigned from rural governments to local governments to be carried out. Anything that is self-governing could calmly give the municipality to do. A simple example: island guards are currently on the payroll of rural governments for some reason, even though they actually carry out self-governing tasks in certain municipalities on small islands. This'reha' will certainly be improved, and this is one step towards increasing the importance of local governments. In the same way, we want to give local governments a greater role in developing the business environment. For example, we have units such as county development centres that are active in the development of entrepreneurship. Currently, the founding member is the county government, but also from this organisation we want to pull out the county governments so that the founding members and leaders of the business development centres are the municipalities themselves without the connection. It is the same with public transport. At the moment, rural governments have a role to play there, but we would like to arrange for the State to be represented by the Public Transport Office with its own financial and competence and local authorities representing local conditions, knowledge and wishes, directly, without interlinking. So that's where we're going. Our experience shows that the greater and more capable the municipality is than the political interest, the more opportunities for developing the business environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U63	Thank you. Since we have a few minutes until the end of Question Time and Jaak Madison's question to Minister Arto Asa has not been asked, there is an opportunity to ask at Arno Bridge. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The question is about compensation for rural municipality managers in connection with administrative reform. Which of the parish workers are among the recipients of the compensation? I would like to point out at this point that chief accountants and parish secretaries have often worked in one area for decades, so more than, for example, municipal elders or parish council presidents. Should they and some of the other members of the municipality's management also receive compensation or what is meant for?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U65	Thank you. I'd love to. The draft law on administrative reform regulated compensation for employees who do not receive compensation under other laws. These are mayors, councillors and parish elders. As far as officials, such as parish secretaries, are concerned, they are covered by certain benefits under the laws already in force when they are made redundant. So we did not see the need to regulate it with the draft law on administrative reform. It should be said that the local government leaders have the free right to pay an additional bonus or compensation to good parish secretaries or other officials who lose their job in the course of the merger, exactly as the local authorities agree and consider appropriate. However, we thought it wiser to regulate the benefits of municipal leaders in law, so that they did not have to make decisions about themselves in councils or to look for any curves to pay out compensation. So the short answer is this: the benefits of municipal officials who have worked prominently for a long time come from the law in force, while the local authorities and councils also have the right to reward people for good work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U66	Thank you. I'm sorry, Krista Aru, you could ask a question, but the Minister wouldn't be able to answer it again. Today's Question Time is over. I thank all the questioners and thank the ministers for their answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U67	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 18th working week Wednesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Colleague Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I have two drafts that the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to submit unanimously yesterday. The reason for drawing up both drafts is the appeal of the Chancellor of Justice. One of the topics of the draft is to inform a person about his or her rights during a police operation when he or she undergoes a cross-check to identify drunk drivers. The second draft concerns the relaxation of life-long restrictions. As you remember, we discussed in depth in this Chamber that there are lifetime restrictions in the public service, they also apply to judges, prosecutors and a number of other professionals. I would remind you that this House recognised the need to alleviate lifetime restrictions when it supported the position of the Chancellor of Justice. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U69	Thank you. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U70	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of six members of the Central Party Group, I will report to Foreign Minister Marina Kaljuranna on the question of non-permanent membership of the United Nations Security Council of Estonia in 2020. The text of the inquiry is this: 'Estonia has set itself the goal of becoming a non-permanent member of the United Nations (UN) Security Council in 2020 in addition to membership of NATO, the European Union, the OECD, the WTO. Estonia joined the United Nations in 1991, and since then Estonia has constantly increased its role in the United Nations. Thus Estonia belongs to the Swiss-led group ACT (Accountability, Coherence, Transparency Group), where Estonia is responsible for the election criteria of the UN Secretary-General. In addition, UN Estonian Ambassador Sven Jürgenson is Vice-President of the UN Economic and Social Council ECOSOC and President of UNICEF's Executive Council. Among other things, Estonia has extended the deadlines for using the Defence Forces in Mali on the UN peacekeeping mission MINUSMA and the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. In 2005, Estonia submitted its nomination to the United Nations Security Council as an interim member for the period from 2020 to 2021. If Estonia turns out to be elected as a non-permanent member of the UN in 2019, it will be one of the biggest foreign policy goals for Estonia after the Presidency of the European Union. " On this basis, we have five questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U71	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U72	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on a report on the activities of the Special Committee on the control of the Riigikogu's state budget, covering the period from May of last year to June of this year. The report is on 12 pages, plus the annexes on 8 pages. In short, I can say that there have been 61 meetings of the Commission during the end of the reporting period, 37 new inspection reports and four reviews have been taken into consideration by the Commission, two joint sessions and four field visits were held during the period and a report was drawn up on the state budget, the hearing of which took place yesterday in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U73	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission decided at its meeting yesterday to initiate a draft law amending the State Border Law. The aim is to enhance the surveillance and protection of the state border in order to contribute to the security of the Estonian state. In order to achieve this objective, the concept of a border zone is included in the State Border Act. The establishment of a border zone in the State Border Act gives a clear signal that Estonia's land border, which is also the external border of the European Union, is an area parallel to the five kilometres wide border strip, where restrictions are laid down. The draft provides that the police have the right to restrict the presence and movement of persons in the border zone and in the border watercourse. The border regime may restrict the operation of an unmanned aircraft if it impedes the surveillance of a national border or interferes with the border peace. At its meeting yesterday, the Commission also discussed supplementing the draft law with the provisions of the law amending the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property, which would change the circle of persons who would be able to acquire immovable property in the border zone. According to the current law, immovable property in the areas covered by the Act can be acquired by nationals of the Contracting State of the European Economic Area and by legal persons registered in the Contracting State of the European Economic Area. There was an amendment under consideration, according to which legal persons could no longer acquire immovable property in the border zone, as the circle of legal persons established in the Contracting State of the European Economic Area cannot be sufficiently controlled and the lack of control may pose a threat to the security of the Estonian state. However, the Commission considered that this amendment needed more in-depth discussion and decided to return to it in the course of the further examination of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U75	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U76	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! On behalf of seven members of the Free Party Group, I will discuss with Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas an inquiry into enhancing the competitiveness of the Estonian business environment. We have recently noticed that the government is working on quite interesting proposals at some levels. One is this so-called zero bureaucracy project to reduce administrative burdens. The second is what we drew the Minister of Finance's attention to in Question Time and which is about increasing Estonia's competitiveness. The Ministry of Justice has gathered a number of proposals covering several areas: more flexible employment relations, a modern tax environment, an optimal administrative burden and a legal environment supporting entrepreneurship. All these are valuable things that need to be achieved, but we have often noticed that there will be no actual drafts or solutions based on such proposals. The Free Party has, for example, made proposals on the floor and ceiling of social tax, both last week and this week, which has been rejected cold by the Reform Party. It is therefore appropriate to ask the Prime Minister how the government intends to promote Estonia's competitiveness and what will become of all these beautiful proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U77	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three draft laws, two inquiries and one report. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U78	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the processing of the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act amending § 13 of the National Defence Act, initiated by the National Defence Committee. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. We are going to the final vote, because the proposal of the lead committee is to put the draft to the final vote. Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, we are once again checking the presence. 92 members of the Riigikogu are present, there is no 9. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending § 13 of the National Defence Act 209. Please take a stand and vote. 91 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U79	The next item is the third reading of the draft law on family benefits initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Vilja Toomas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U80	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on family benefits No 217, which I hope we will adopt as a law today, includes a number of important changes that support families with children and the raising of children. Let it also be said immediately that the Reform Party Group supports the adoption of this bill as a law. The draft of the Government of the Republic has been developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs in the framework of the "Development of Better Lawmaking" programme and brings together the regulations of three existing laws: the National Family Benefits Act, the Parental Benefits Act and the Maintenance Assistance Act. The law revises, updates and organises outdated provisions and terminology of the current legal order. The proposed solutions also take into account the introduction of an electronic administrative procedure. Therefore, in addition to these three laws, 19 other laws will be amended. The Government Coalition has agreed that the National Family Benefits Act and the Parental Benefits Act will not be amended more than the modernisation of the current legal order requires. However, it was agreed to develop a new scheme for maintenance, which is done by this law. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has proposed amendments during the procedure of the draft, which I believe will make the draft clearer and smoother to achieve its main objective, support for families with children and children. Thus, for example, the Ministry of Social Affairs had initially written in the draft a regulation that would have made the situation of the beneficiaries of parental benefit worse than the current situation, despite the agreement of the government coalition not to amend the basic provisions of the parental benefit law. More specifically, in the initial wording of the draft, the parent whose benefit is equal to the minimum wage would have been disregarded even if the minimum wage were to rise. The Commission did not accept this and the current situation remains: if the minimum wage rises, the parental benefit will also rise. We are also pleased that, when we developed the maintenance aid scheme, we reached an agreement with the Law Enforcement Officers and the House of Bankruptcy Administrators, who are primarily responsible for the possibility of receiving maintenance support from a parent who does not wish to fulfil his parent's responsibilities in raising children. For example, the question whether the monthly accounting period used for the payment of maintenance aid starts on the 15th and runs until the 14th of the following month, or whether this period is a normal calendar month running from the first to the last of the month, as requested by bailiffs. During the debate, we found a middle ground. The bailiffs got more time to transmit the data and the entire information exchange procedure became more logical, but the parents still receive the paid-up allowance faster by the 10th of the following month. I would like to mention another subject, one of the additional objectives of the law. The Family Benefits Act seeks to harmonise procedural rules in other social legislation. This additional objective is directly linked to the development of the new information system of the Social Insurance Board, which is also known as the SKIAIS2. It was the family benefit part that was developed first in the system. The laws that I recall are 19 which make similar developments in other laws. I hope that the long-awaited skyis2 will be fully implemented in time, i.e. from 1 January next year. The Social Insurance Institution is an organisation whose current work organisation is inefficient and costly and which, by its nature, is incompatible with the modern e-state system and mentality. Of course, it will also be easier for beneficiaries of grants to submit applications and shorten procedures following the implementation of the SKAIS2. With this bill, we are planning other changes in the social field, but we have already discussed them in the past. My colleague, Helmen Kütt, as the committee's facilitator, gave a comprehensive overview of the preparation of the draft second reading in the Committee on Social Affairs and it is therefore not appropriate to discuss it here. As has been said, the Reform Party Group supports the adoption of the draft 217 as a law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U81	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I believe that many of you will remember the end of 2013, when the coalition at that time found that the soccer people simply do it when they hold night sessions to raise child benefits. Now, for the second time in the government coalition, we have actually been able to do something for the children quickly. With great perseverance, the Social Democrats have stood up for social democratic values both in the opposition and in the coalition. Otherwise, the first thing to do with the coalition agreement was not to repair families with children. This priority is more than positive to the social democrats, after all, children and families with children have been one of our most important issues, and poverty in families with children is one of our greatest concerns. Child benefits continue to rise. Support for the first and second children, which rose from EUR 19 to EUR 45 at the beginning of last year, will increase to EUR 60 per month over four years. Child-rich family support, 200 euros per month, will be paid to a family with three or more children. Our "smart child" support will also come true, and the Ministry of Culture has developed a system to support children's activities of interest and sport. Raising the limit of living that promises poverty reduction and increasing the tax-free minimum will also help children first and foremost, after all, families with children are at greater risk of poverty than others. In addition to supporting recreational education, there are plans to make many other family services more accessible. This is good because the experience of the rest of the world shows that services for families with children are effective. A further reminder: already in 2014, when the Social Democrats were in government, child benefits were decoupled from the child benefit rate and the support that remained unchanged for ten years increased more than twice to the first and second child of the family. The draft will make all family allowances numerical. Thus, in the future, all family allowances will be set as a specific amount, which will certainly mean a transition to a more flexible scheme. However, as far as the deposit guarantee fund is concerned, I have fought for it as if it were for my own child and have suffered for him. On behalf of the Social Democrats in January, I gave the draft law establishing a support fund to the Riigikogu's proceedings. At the beginning of last year, I organised a public meeting of the Commission in the chair of the Social Affairs Committee, where we discussed a number of directly screaming needs for a system that would guarantee regular bread money to the child as an advance if one of the parents did not fulfil their maintenance obligations. The proposal to create the fund was then supported by the Riigikogu, and a year later our objective went into the coalition agreement. The idea of the politicians of more than a decade of political parties finally got rid of the stump and today there is a draft law on family benefits, which also reflects the regulation of maintenance assistance, before us. Let me remind you that, according to international conventions, maintenance is not a matter for parents; maintenance is absolute. This is where the country has to be put on its shoulders. From next year, the state will pay 100 euros per month to a child growing with one parent if the other parent evades its responsibilities. We started off at the right time, because a number of maintenance creditors started to take pressure measures earlier. Maintenance aid paid to a child shall be recovered by the State from the debtor. World practice shows that the state is a better debt collector than a single parent spinning in a squirrel wheel. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The truth has long been known that single - parent children are growing at the greatest risk of poverty. Estonia, however, is a member of the OECD's top five countries in terms of the number of single parents. In 92% of cases, if the other parent fails to fulfil his or her obligations, the parent raising the child alone is left on his or her own. In theory, the process is simple and logical, but in practice it can become a real cognition, often left without redemption, or the result is still a round zero. Throughout this saga, the child, his or her well-being and the climate of growth suffers first and foremost. The current regime cannot guarantee the protection of the rights of a large number of children. However, it is the duty of the state. In 81% of healthy cases, one parent does not take part in or minimally raise a child left by another parent, according to a recent study. Half of the parents living apart have a child's livelihood. Probably half of the file parents are maliciously shunning their child from paying money, and the other side is said not to have a red cross. But let's keep thinking. Is it not also malicious behavior to give up on life, while your own fleshly child, who suffers, if not hunger, grows in the world, the humiliation of deprivation? Crazy news is that many single parents are discouraged or unable to go to court with a child's claim for maintenance because they fear threats from another parent, even physical billing. It's all good. It's all good. The Socialists are pleased that our idea of creating a livelihood fund is coming true. We call on all colleagues to vote in favour of the Family Benefits Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U83	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request that we listen more to the waitress than to our neighbour. Dmitri Dmitriev, please, on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak once again about the changes for which the Central Party Group has stood strongly in this Chamber. I would essentially like to talk about those amendments that were not supported by the Commission, but with which the Centre Party Group would have liked to improve both the points concerning maintenance aid and family allowances. We wanted to reconnect the child benefit rate with the allowance for a single parent child and the child care allowance rate with the allowance for a parent of a family of seven or more children. This change would have been necessary in order to make it easier to review and, if necessary, increase the grants each year. The faction of the Estonian Centre Party also wished to reconnect child care fees with the rate of child care fees and in turn to increase the amount of the allowance. The child care fee rate in 2016 is 77.7 euros. However, the original purpose of the child care allowance was to partially compensate for the costs of childcare or to provide a substitute income to an unemployed parent. Because of the increase in the cost of living, this reward has now become so small that it no longer serves its purpose. Speaking of maintenance aid, the decision of the previous Riigikogu allowed the maintenance aid fund to be implemented from the beginning of 2016 and the allowance to be paid at least at the minimum maintenance rate. However, the draft allows maintenance aid to be paid in the amount of EUR 100. The Central Party Group proposed, with an amendment on the amount of maintenance aid, that this amount would still be EUR 215, i.e. the minimum maintenance rate. This amendment, however, was not taken into account. But despite the fact that most of our amendments did not pass, the Central Party Group supports this draft. The purpose of the draft law is positive in itself, and it will certainly have a positive impact on one of Estonia's most sensitive target groups, single parents and their children. That is why the Centre Party Group supports the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U85	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Aivar Kokk Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U86	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I think that the Family Benefits Act could simply be called 'No child should grow in poverty'. Today's final vote on the Family Benefits Act represents the biggest change in family policy over the years. For reasons of legal clarity, 24 laws are amended or repealed in order to reduce duplication and harmonise electronic procedures in the social field. The changes relate to the development of the new information system of the Social Insurance Board, SKIAS2, which increases the efficiency of public service provision and makes it more convenient for people to use the services. The most important of these changes is the creation of a support fund for children growing up in a single parent's family. There are currently 56000 Estonian children in a single parent's family, and one in four such families does not receive living support from a single parent. There are 12500 children directly affected by the child support fund in Estonia. Poverty is the face of a family with one parent. The risk of a single parent's family falling below the limit of relative or absolute poverty is several times greater than that of a two - parent family, even when a single parent is struggling for several. Growing in poverty does not mean just poorer living conditions and fewer things; it leads to social exclusion and does not allow the child to fully realise the opportunities given to him by nature. By helping single - parent families, we give much of the growing generation a better starting position and an opportunity to live a better life. The proposed EUR 100 state maintenance aid is not a large amount for a wealthy person, but it contributes strongly to the livelihood of the poorer family. The average maintenance earned in court is 157 euros in Estonia. The maintenance scheme also has an important social dimension. Avoidance of maintenance payments, income schemes, often with the help of the employer, was, for years, in the opinion of some people, normal and acceptable behaviour. Now the state is sending out a clear message that your child's debt is not tolerated and is going to collect the debt itself. The state has more levers than a private person. If the debt is not paid, the debtor cannot, for example, make a new document or use a public service. The Ministry of Justice has initiated the intention to develop additional coercive measures, which include a number of stricter restrictions, including giving bailiffs the right to look at the debtor's bank account and to assess the actual remuneration, as is currently the case in Finland. A maintenance scheme is only one way to help single parents. Family benefits and parental benefits will also play a greater role in the future. Data published by Statistics Estonia show that social benefits reduced the relative poverty rate of children by nearly 36% in 2014. That doesn't mean we can be satisfied, but things are getting better. In order to combat poverty, subsidies will be increased further over a few years. I would also like to draw attention to the other measures to combat poverty that will apply from the beginning of next year. Next year, a three-child family will receive child benefit of EUR 400 per month. This amount is comparable to that paid in neighbouring Finland and gives a clear message: Estonia supports children and the wealth of children must not necessarily mean poverty in the family. In any case, work must be more useful than living out of grants. Those whose wages are low will receive part or all of the income tax paid at the beginning of next year. The amount of repayment will decrease as the income grows. The highest repayment, EUR 708, will be received by workers with a gross monthly salary of EUR 480. We know that many of the low-paid workers are women. This measure will increase the income of families, improve the situation of women on the labour market and stimulate economic growth through increasing consumption. Social benefits reduced the relative poverty rate of children by more than a third in 2014. While the absolute poverty rate for children was 10.1% in 2013, the combined effect of these steps could decrease to 7%. The goal can only be one: no Estonian child should live in poverty. By reducing poverty in children and families, we give the growing generation a better starting position and a better chance of coping with life. Finally, I would like to thank the Commission officials who helped to improve this law further, my colleagues in the opposition and coalition...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U87	Good waitress, would you like an extra thank you? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U88	One minute, please! Everyone contributed to making the law even better than the option that originally came to our committee. The previous speakers have spoken about what improvements were made. I believe that this law is what the Estonian people expect today. In my experience, I can say that when I went to many single mothers' families during the election campaign six years ago, these mothers complained that they would not get the money from their former partner. I'm ashamed to admit it took six years to put this right. Now I hope that you will all support this draft, which needs the support of 51 Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U89	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U90	Good manager! Good ambassadors! I actually gave my speech at second reading of the draft law on family benefits when I congratulated both the coalition partners and certainly our good officials. I would like to point out once again that a good result can only be achieved in the Chamber of Riigikogu if we view the issues raised and the proposals made with a broad mind and open heart. We were very concerned at the beginning that our proposals were not taken seriously, but, after hearing and thinking about the other side, we reached a solution which is due to the fact that the Free Party Group is also unanimously supporting the adoption of the Family Benefits Act today. What we did not like at first was that certain changes were intended to be incorporated into this bill, just as secretly, not to mention openly. We drew attention to the deterioration of the situation in the case of parental benefit. This means that it was initially intended to eliminate the possibility of increasing parental benefit after the calendar year has passed and the minimum wage, for example, has risen. Another point pointed out by the Commission officials was that we would have lost the opportunity to pay the benefit of a single parent child if the father's details were mentioned in the birth certificate on the basis of the mother's statement. If we think that the amount of this support is EUR 19 and 18 cents, it seems cynical to withdraw such a small support. Fortunately, this provision was also withdrawn from the draft. Much has been said today about the creation of a maintenance scheme. We support the creation of this scheme in any case and believe that it is very necessary and important. At the same time, we must agree with the Centre Party that we should rather ask whether EUR 100 is what we have wanted and what is right, but this is probably the subject of the next dispute. Finally, I would like to say that we should not forget in this Chamber that every law that we adopt will shape the environment in which we live, and that we will be in a position to improve the living environment. Let us do so wisely in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U91	Thank you. There's no more calls. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote on 217. As the draft requires a majority of its component members to be adopted as a law, we will do a verification of presence before the vote. There are 90 members of the Riigikogu, missing 11. I am voting on draft law 217 on family benefits initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 90 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U92	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the third reading of the Bill 231 on Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote 231. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Law on the Order of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 231. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U93	Today's fourth item is the third reading of § 17 of the Water Act, which was initiated by the Committee on the Environment, as amended by the Act 226. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 226. I shall vote on the draft Act 226 on Supplementing the Water Act, initiated by the Committee on the Environment. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U94	Today's fifth item is the third reading of draft law 165 on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote of 165. I am voting on draft law 165 on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 6 votes against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U95	The sixth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to put the draft to a final vote of 220. I am voting on the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 90 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U96	The seventh item is the third reading of draft law 232 amending the Law on identity documents, the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 232. I am voting on the draft Act 232 amending the Law on Identity Documents, the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U97	The eighth item is the third reading of the draft law 157 on the conservation copy initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote on 157. I shall put to the vote draft law 157 on the conservation copy initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu with 6 votes against and 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U98	Today's ninth item is the second reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the international military operation Inherent Resolve'. Ms Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Commission of the Speaker's Board, please. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U99	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 16 May. The first reading of the draft was completed on 1 June. No amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline of 10 June at 14 p.m. A few words from the bill. Daesh, or ISIL, a terrorist organisation mainly operating in Syria and Iraq, poses a serious threat to global security, including a real threat to Europe's internal security. Daesh's activities in Syria and Iraq directly affect the number of people in need of international protection in the region and thus the European refugee crisis. Daesh is also recruiting fighters from Europe who, after fighting and training in the Middle East, may, in turn, compromise Europe's security by returning. The attacks in Paris and Brussels were carried out on behalf of Daesh and used by European terrorists. Estonia is initially planning to contribute to the operation by sending up to six infantry instructors to Iraq, where they will train Iraqi security forces in cooperation with the defence forces of Denmark, the United States, Latvia and other allied countries. Thus, in the framework of the mandate of the Riigikogu, the Estonian Defence Forces would participate in the mission primarily as staff officers. However, Estonian Defence Forces would not participate in activities taking place within the framework of Operation Inherent Resolve on the territory of Syria. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 13 June and unanimously approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. The National Defence Committee also decided (consensually) to propose that the Riigikogu stop the second reading of the draft. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the Commission decided to propose the final vote on the draft and the decision of the Riigikogu to adopt it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U100	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft were received. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 244. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international military operation of the Estonian State in the execution of its international obligations Inherent Resolve' draft 244. Please take a stand and vote. 65 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U101	Today's 10th item is an overview of the 2015 Civil Service Report. The rapporteur is Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration. But before we go to the report, ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to this item. First of all, the Minister of Public Administration, Arto Asa, is a presentation that lasts up to ten minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. I ask for a presentation by Minister of State Administration Arto Asa of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U102	Honourable Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to present you with another public service annual report giving an overview of the number of government staff, labour costs, staff expertise, recruitment and turnover, and development and training activities. The Civil Service Report is part of the process of making public administration as a whole more transparent. The more information we have about our public employees, the better we can use the resources we spend on them for the development of the country. The public sector is broadly divided into general government and other public sectors. In Estonia, the government sector is divided into three parts: central government, local government units and social security funds. The other public sector includes public sector enterprises with the participation of the state and other members of the general government, such as Eesti Energia, the Port of Tallinn, as well as Eesti Pank. In 2015, the public sector employed 135300 full-time equivalents, with 87% of them employed in the general government sector and 13% in the other public sector. The public sector accounts for nearly one fifth of total employment in Estonia. Due to demographic trends, we are in a situation where Estonia's working age population is declining by an average of 0.7% per year. We have set the target that the share of the general government in the general working age population should not exceed 12%. The government sector must therefore decrease at the same pace as the working age population. The general government employed 118393 employees last year, with 663 fewer employees than in 2014. We can say that we have been able to maintain the target ratio of government employees to the working age population. The decrease in the number of employees has been higher at central government level, where the number of employees decreased by 510 people, and the number of employees in local governments decreased by 165. Officials last year were in the service of 20367. Most of them were so-called special servants: police officers, border guards, defence forces, prison servants. There were a total of 9053 people. Let it be said, in comparison, that the ministries employ a total of 2600 people. When it comes to the growth of the average government wage, it was 8%, which is a very solid increase. Wage growth in the general government was 2% faster than the average wage growth in Estonia. The average gross monthly wage in Estonia last year was 1065 euros and the average wage in the general government was 1079 euros. The average salary of officials (almost half of officials are special servants) was EUR 1402. Public wage levels vary from country to country. As you can imagine, in Tallinn and Harjumaa there is a higher wage level than in other counties, which in turn affects the level of wages in the public sector. In general government, the ratio of the average monthly wage to the average monthly wage in Estonia has improved, especially in the area of social protection. There has also been faster growth than others in health, education and culture. These are the areas where the government allocated additional resources for wage increases last year. The government's priorities have therefore been clearly reflected in the salary numbers. Speaking of equality in the public sector, I believe that public service must be a milestone in the implementation of equality policy. At present, it can be said that the overall gender pay gap between national authorities is significantly lower than the national average wage gap. This was 9.2% last year, while in Estonia as a whole it was 23%, which is depressingly large. The horizontal pay gap, which takes account of responsibility and the complexity of the work and shows the difference between the average monthly pay of men and women at the same level of responsibility, was 7.5% in public authorities. We can see that the pay gap in public authorities is small, but it still exists. This year, we have identified in the report the horizontal pay gap by three levels of responsibility: specialists, primary managers and middle and top managers. It turned out that at the first two levels there was a horizontal pay gap of 9%, but among middle and top managers, the situation was that women were even paid 2.2% more than men. This was, at least in my opinion, the biggest surprise in this report. The civil service staff is actually balanced. There's 55% of women and 45% of men. The workforce is relatively young, with an average age of 43 years, but with a slight increase in age. While the proportion of men and women in younger age groups is relatively equal, there are more women in older age groups. The proportion of men is again higher in special services. Last year, the total staff turnover in the public service was 11%, including a voluntary turnover of 7%. In an organisation with top specialists, a 10% rate of voluntary turnover is considered to be a good limit. If this rate is exceeded, the institutional memory and expertise of the organisation will suffer. We are pleased to note that in the public ministry, voluntary turnover was below the critical rate. At the same time, it is clear that the state must make an effort to remain a reputable and desirable employer. The strength of the state depends on professional and dedicated officials. We must maintain their competitiveness and give central support to their potential for development and improvement. Our common desire is for the state sector to employ top specialists in their field. At present, the proportion of people with higher education in public service is significantly higher than in Estonia as a whole. While the average number of people employed in Estonia was 41% higher education, our officials had 76% employees with higher education. There will, of course, be wage pressure to keep the state competitive as an employer. In order to better motivate and develop their employees, both the state and local authorities financed trainings by nearly 4% more than last year. In order to improve the quality of governance of public authorities and to be open to new innovative solutions, the training of central and senior public service managers has also been financed by the European Union Structural Funds. In addition to the usual activities, the Ministry of Finance will organise several trainings this year and next year to help our public employees successfully implement the Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2018. Speaking of the future, both this year and in the coming years, we naturally face the need to reduce the general government workforce in the same way as the general decline in the working-age population of the country. This is a joint task for all of us, because too much state machinery would become a burden on taxpayers. The solution cannot and must not be merely a mechanical reduction in the number of public employees. Our aim is still to review the structural organisation, tasks and standards of public services. Basic changes in the state's organisation of work and the introduction of new e-services support more efficient and faster work organisation. A critical assessment must be made of the administrative burden on public authorities, which the state itself has created and which businesses have to endure in their dealings with the state. We have a zero bureaucracy project, on which more than 250 proposals were submitted by companies. I am pleased to note that we have also made a follow-up project for zero bureaucracy at national level, on which state officials and public sector employees have put forward a proposal of 963. This is a mysteriously large number, which shows that the field of work is wide and that the public officials themselves are disturbed by a number of processes and excessive bureaucracy. We will work on their 963 proposal, systematise them and see why and where these administrative burdens arise. I hope that a great deal of red tape will be lost from our authorities after a year or two. Of course, we must have the courage and ambition to make new decisions in the near future so that our state apparatus is efficient and flexible and we can sustain it. This report is shorter than the previous one, because it is well-readable and understandable. At this point, I will finish, and I am ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U103	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U104	Thank you. I can't say the impact assessment of the Civil Service Act right now. This is not in this report and this is a separate issue. However, I do think that we could rather prefer regulations and remuneration systems that are understandable and transparent and comparable and equal in different areas. Too many exceptions should not be created. When you create an exception in one area, others start to feel touched, why they are not special. I think that a transparent system is better, rather competitive wages and decent working conditions, not hidden revenues and costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U105	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U106	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, has the transfer of state agencies to areas such as county centres been on the table lately? What is your own understanding of whether we can improve local employment and bring services closer to people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U107	Thank you. We're working on it. This is part of the analysis of our country's tasks and I hope that in the autumn it will also be possible to present a more detailed plan before Parliament. It's not easy, of course. We sent out enquiries to ministries and county governments asking which agencies they want to see in their county or what opportunities they see for the authorities to leave the capital. Simply put, a black and white picture is drawn: all counties and all regions want all kinds of state companies and authorities, but all the institutions that are located in the capital say that they are very pleased here. Of course, there are advantages in the capital: the labour market is large, there are many choices, it is convenient, etc. But we're going on with this plan. You don't always have to move headquarters. I like to give an example of my own administration. The State Support Services Centre deals with the provision of support services to public authorities, ministries: in particular, finance, accounting, wage accounting. Although its head office is on Endla Street in Tallinn, its regional units are located in Tartu and Viljandi. We have an agreement that all new posts that come to the State Support Services Centre will be created outside Tallinn. Already today, about half of its employees work in Tartu or Viljandi. Such solutions may also need to be considered in other areas. This work, the nature of which does not require daily communication with other government agencies or international relations, can be moved out of the capital. How far we're gonna get with this will be shown next semester. Very much, of course, also depends on the ministers and their attitude, because this is a change that generally does not happen from the bottom up. Well, we have not received any suggestions from any of the institutions themselves that they are ready to move from the centre of Tallinn to Põlva today. Unfortunately, such proposals have not come to us, so we need to resolve this issue from the top down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U108	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U109	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You have pointed out here that more than 62000 employees work in local government units. Can you tell me how much the number of these employees will change after the administrative reform? The new structures should be operational as of 1 January 2018. What is the effect? I assume that there is a change in the number of employees at central government level in relation to the proportion at which there are now over 55000 employees. As the so-called manageables should be reduced, how much will the number of employees change at central government level?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U110	Thank you. The overall proportion of the government sector is almost half and half, with slightly more employees in local governments. To conclude with the previous answer, we have made it clear how many employees of the central government are currently working in Tallinn and how many in the regions. Perhaps this is surprising, but currently 45% of central government employees work in the capital and 55% out of the capital. That's not such a bad ratio. In the case of self-government reform, we have not set ourselves the goal of reducing the number of officials, but experience so far has shown that a certain reduction in the number of support staff may indeed occur. I am thinking, for example, of accountants who are underburdened and who may not be needed as many as they are now on four or five parishes. What is the exact order of magnitude depends on the municipalities, but we are talking about a few hundred or three hundred people rather than thousands, as has been said here in the stories of fear and horror. So time will tell. This is likely to be clear by the beginning of 2018. The reform of the local authorities of the number of employees of the central government is not so directly concerned, but, as has been said, the preparation of changes in the area of regional administration is also under way. So let's see how far we get.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U111	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U112	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Indeed, the fact that this year's annual public service report is based on the fact that female executives are paid 2.2% more than male leaders. How many percent of the top executives in our country are women?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U113	Thank you. Good question. I don't have that number in my head, but if I'm not mistaken, the sample whose horizontal salary figures were compared consisted of 800 central and top managers. How many of them were men and how many women I can't say right now. I'm telling you, there's more men among the leaders. We can see that there are a lot of women working in the public sector as a whole, but among top executives, I say there are more men. Maybe that's why they know better about female leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U114	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is about recruiting and selecting officials and staff. In particular, the report shows that 5% of public officials have been recruited without a competition, while in local governments 20%, or one fifth, of employees have been recruited without a competition. It is very clear that this trend emerged in 2015. It turns out that no one was recruited without a competition in 2011-2014. To be honest, I see here the danger that nepotism and so-called acquaintances will play a role. Which officials were recruited without a call for proposals and what is your opinion on recruitment without a call for proposals on such a scale?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U116	Thank you. Each government has its own priorities. I don't think it's just looking at how many ministers there are, just a very deep analysis. The law tells us that there may be up to 15 of them, and it has been observed. I pointed out from the report that the number of public employees has decreased by 663, which is more than the total number of employees in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. So I think these effects are bigger. If usually the public sector continues to expand and during a crisis, this campaign is very painfully pulled together, then the government's approach is smarter and smoother: we adapt to change every year and sensibly, not grow a state apparatus in good times, to start cutting 20% of the goods in times of crisis. So I don't see a problem here. We do not have any new ministries, but some ministries have two ministers. In today's world, there is also movement to the effect that the entire government is an organisation where ministers are very easy and flexible to switch compared to such silo towers. This will provide much better and more convenient ways to respond to political priorities, as perhaps a few years will be needed by the Minister of Public Administration, and later an IT Minister or Foreign Affairs Minister will be needed. This flexibility should be in the state apparatus and we have moved towards such a Scandinavian model in Estonia. I don't see anything wrong with that. So let's look at the big picture and how the government is handling its tasks and what the size of the official body as a whole is, whether it is decreasing or increasing. It is not a question of one or two ministerial positions. I can tell you, however, that, as a result of the creation of my position, the number of employees did not increase, but rather decreased. As a result of the transfer of functions from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Finance, the number of employees decreased. So the fact that there is a ministerial seat does not always mean that the number of officials or public employees should increase. It's just that the structure and organisation of the government are changing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U117	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Among the many facts recorded in this report, I noted the human resources data. In the general government, the number of employees decreased in proportion to the decline in the working age population, says the report, both falling by 0.6%. Can you describe a little bit of the perspective, is there about the same proportion next year and is it ideal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U119	Thank you. We will prepare an analysis in the summer for the government on how to proceed with a reduction in the volume of government in the coming years. The period of the first year when we measured the number of employees lasted from June to June. On 1 June, the measurement of the first year ended. We are now taking stock of how administrative areas have actually reorganized their work and reduced the number of employees. We can say that we did well with the cut of the first year, changes have been made. But how we're going to proceed in the next few years, I'm not going to say that today. This is what we are discussing in the government in August and September, and this also concerns the drawing up of the state budget. So in autumn, you can tell exactly what the plan is. But we certainly do not retreat from the objective of keeping the proportion of the working-age population and the government sector. So let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U120	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Do the groups want to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. I would like to thank the Minister once again for his review of the 2015 report on the Civil Service and all the good colleagues who asked and participated in the debate. The 10th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You pointed out in your report and the report also states in black that the average wage growth in the government sector (8%) was 2% faster than the average wage growth in Estonia in 2015. This is, in my opinion, a very marked figure. We have been discussing such developments here with the Prime Minister. Does it not concern the government that the public sector is dictating wage growth in this way, and can it continue at the same rate? How do you look to the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U122	Thank you. That's the right question. Yeah, that's a problem. It is not just that people's wages are increasing, but that it is actually good news, but that it is whether this growth is sustainable and how long the public sector can be a driver for wage growth. This trend cannot possibly continue for a long time with the public sector growing wages faster than others. Looking at what the government has made in the past, there hasn't been an 8% increase in the payroll in the last ten years, if I remember correctly. This has certainly not been the case in recent years. Also in 2015, the decision was made to increase the payroll by 3%, with a slight increase being made in certain priority areas, but afterwards we can see that on average wages have still increased much more. So budgetary pressure on the country has been lower, but the average wage has increased more. The explanation is that the authorities have been able to raise wages due to their internal resources and fewer staff. It's not a bad trend in itself. If it is possible to do the same job with fewer people, this should be done and, where possible, paid these people competitive wages. By 2016, this year is now, and the report will be heard at the same time next year, the government did not give the administration more money from the general payroll, so that all desired wage increases should come at the expense of internal resources. The exception was four areas where wage levels have been lower and which are our priorities: education, culture, health and internal security. So I believe that the figures for 2016 are already significantly more modest and that the public sector should no longer be a wage locomotive. However, more precise figures will be available during this year. In the government, we are discussing wage policy and human resources policy again in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U123	Thank you, Minister. There are more questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U124	Good manager! Good minister! I want to ask you about the Rescue Board. If, until recently, we had 98 National Rescue Commands, now we have 72 of them. On the other hand, the number of volunteers has increased and their funding is awkwardly low: EUR 1.4 million for 115 commandos. How long does it take to taunt the rescuers that they have to work on another job in addition to their main job in order to feed themselves and their families? Would it be normal for judges, prosecutors or ministerial officials to work in another job? When will it end and how much more money will the Rescue Board get for the salary of its employees next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U125	Thank you. As I said in the previous reply, the government has had priority areas that have become additional resources for wage increases. First, internal security workers, second, teachers, third, cultural workers and fourth, social welfare workers. We have made clear choices, given the limited resources, that the payroll will not be spread evenly, but will go into very specific priority areas. I hope that in the area of rescue, too, wage increases will be felt. Of course, there are a lot of employees and this is causing high costs from the state budget. The pay grade isn't high there. But, as I said, it's a government priority, and that's where the extra money is directed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U126	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I read this annual report with great interest. I didn't find an answer to one of my questions here, but I'm sure you can answer. Have we analysed and appreciated the use of teleworking in the public service and the flexibility of working time, all the opportunities that we talk about and dream about? Has it been analysed at all and, if so, has it been appreciated?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U128	Yeah, we're in the government and the Ministry of Finance dealing with this. We have also set out, in the government's work programme, the task of allowing more teleworking. At least 3000 places should be secured by teleworking, which is the target level. Of course, it must be said that teleworking is not prohibited, nor is it currently. The heads of institutions are quite free to organise the day-to-day performance of the duties of their staff. Remote work is also being done, but we can see clearly that there is room for improvement. If in the future we switch to the concept of public houses in larger centres, it is quite possible that there will be open jobs for employees of different ministries who will not always have to go to the head office, but will be able to work in this state house or even at home. But much of the problem here is not about regulation or money, but rather about attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U129	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you very much for this good presentation. Like you said, the report is short. Of the figures, this 12% is particularly positive, which has not been exceeded. However, a few weeks ago, we dealt with the law of the courts in this Chamber. This was driven by the fact that we do not have enough judges and competitions often fail. The justification was also that the long-standing reform of the public service, which abolished certain concessions, has now had an impact. Of course, the law of the courts found alternatives here. But how can we assess the impact of this reform of the public service, now in a few years' view? Have these goals, which were then set, been achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U131	Thank you. The general rule is, yes, that a competition must be put in place, although in certain cases it can also be done differently. I had the same question when I read it. I got a more detailed answer on what cases they were. I can send it to you later in writing, I don't have that answer here. It's not like it's a good trend to be hired without a competition. Why is this done in certain cases? The public competition may have failed. But it's not a good trend, really. We should organise a public competition if we are to fill key jobs, which often may seem annoying, time-consuming and perhaps even expensive to the heads of institutions, but we must keep such openness. There is no career system in most authorities, about starting at the bottom level and reaching the top in 30 years. We can still apply for all positions, and this information should be public and accessible. But I'll have you get a more detailed answer on what cases they were and how it's even possible to miss the competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U132	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U133	Good manager! Good minister! A few days ago, we passed an administrative reform law here. I think it was a serious job. But I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister has a working team that has helped in this area. I remember that at the end of last year, when we were sitting together, there was an agreement that in May, together with the general part of the administrative reform, there should also be clear models of financing for new municipalities and the services these new municipalities will offer. Can you tell me how far this thing is and when can we see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U134	Thank you. In my opinion, the issue with the annual report on the public service is quite vague. But we will discuss these matters as a whole in the government in June. I believe that in the autumn, when Parliament reconvenes, Parliament will also be able to see these drafts. The preparatory work is done. In fact, we have dealt with these issues for the concept of administrative reform, and there has also been talk at the meetings about what areas we are going to see changes in. We have already discussed certain funding issues for local governments in the government, we have increased funding for local governments and agreed to develop alternative financing models by autumn, so definitely this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U135	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, congratulations on the work you have done in preparing the administrative reform. However, the administrative reform certainly does not cover the whole public sector and the whole administration and reform of it. The state has a number of implementing bodies that make payments from both the European Union and Estonian state funds, and they have been delegated certain functions of the state (EAS, KredEx, Innove, KIK, etc.). As we know, these implementing bodies and their functions are to be reviewed and maybe to some extent consolidated. Can you tell us the state of the plan and when the Riigikogu could become acquainted with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U137	Thank you. It was a more general question of how we are preparing the next reforms and structural changes. Potential changes to the implementation units are also one of the focus areas of our country's task analysis, which we will discuss for the first time in June in the study. I'm sure these debates will continue for months. Our problem in many areas is that we have a terrible number of all kinds of authorities and organisations that we have created over time with good intentions, but, as always in the public sector, they tend to expand and become individual kingdoms and, at one point, if you start pulling them together or consolidating them, there are so many problems. It's the same with the implementing units. These are institutions that, for example, help to distribute EU Structural Funds money. There are eight such institutions, with a PRIA of nine, i.e. there are too many for a small Estonia. There should be more synergy here. It would be easier for both applicants and the country to have a slightly smaller number of institutions. With these debates, we'll go on in the summer. Alternatives are on the table. However, we do see that we should significantly simplify the functioning of our state apparatus, so that there are fewer rules, fewer authorities and fewer places where an entrepreneur needs to turn with his concern before he gets help.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U138	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U139	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! On page 23 of your report, paragraph 5.3.1 noted the fact that the share of variable remuneration, i.e. performance wages or bonuses, in the constitutional institutions and the State Chancellery is higher than elsewhere. Is this some random anomaly, or is there some explanation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U140	Thank you. When I sober in my memory, I remember that during the economic boom, the share of variable wages was quite high, well-lived, wage funds grew rapidly, often three or four monthly salaries were added to the salary, and the system was quite confusing and opaque. The economic crisis made rapid corrections, often with these variable fees, or bonuses, and performance fees disappearing altogether. There's still a lot left, though. As has been said here, the share of variable wages increased by 1% and ranges from 3 to 5%, while in constitutional institutions it is 7%. I cannot justify this with anything else, except that perhaps the nature of the work is different, perhaps the staff of the State Chancellery or constitutional institutions have had some projects whose successful completion has given rise to the payment of a performance fee. Right now, I can't give you a more precise answer. However, there is no such trend in the authorities that a premium of three or four months' wages is paid, the justification of which can always raise questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U141	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U142	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. In my opinion, state reform should start at a higher level, i.e. the government. There are currently only eight ministries in Switzerland. During the reign of Taavi Clothes, three new ministerial positions have already been created and, as far as I know, a fourth is planned. Is this the state reform we are going to implement? Shouldn't the government set an example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U143	Let's move on to item 11. The second reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the environmental committee Andres Metsoja!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U144	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good ambassadors! The Government of the Republic initiated a draft amendment to the Environmental Charges Act on 2 May 2016. The main objective of the draft is to clarify the principles for the implementation of the fees for the right of use of natural resources and to highlight more clearly the basis for setting the remuneration based on their value for state-owned natural resources. The first reading of the draft act took place on 1 June and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 14 a.m. on 3 June. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Committee on the Environment finalised ten amendments to the draft. Between the first reading and the second reading, the draft was dealt with twice at the Commission meeting: 6 and 7 June. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications participated in the meetings and expressed their views. The proposals of the Ministry of the Environment concern more precise fixing of the collection of the Environmental Investment Centre's funds in order to make it clear and unambiguously understandable, after the implementation of the draft law, how the funds will be received by local authorities, the Environmental Investment Centre and the state budget for the purpose of implementing them without any purpose. Provisions governing it are included in the Act. In addition, it is specified that in the case of nationwide deposits (e.g. national deposits of limestone and dolophin), the remuneration paid to the local authority is calculated on the basis of the following formula: 25% of the 2011 rate. In the case of oil shale and well-degraded peat nationwide deposits, the part of the remuneration to be borne by the local government unit is set out separately in § 13 (1) (5) and (6) of the Environmental Charges Act. From the mining right fee, EUR 0,275 per tonne extracted pursuant to point 5 shall be entered in the budget of the local government unit of the site where oil shale is extracted and EUR 0,29 per tonne extracted in accordance with point 6 to the local government unit of the site of the mining site when well-degraded peat is extracted. It is also stipulated that, unlike other local deposits, where the mining right fee is paid to 100% of the municipality, the part of the fee payable to the municipality for the extraction of peat is well-degraded as provided for in § 13 (1) (6) of the Environmental Charges Act. The purpose of the proposals of the Ministry of Finance is to minimise the risks associated with compliance with European Union law. In particular, it is necessary to distinguish more clearly than has been the case so far that energy resources are based on value and other considerations do not determine the basis of the minimum rate. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 7 June 2016, the following was decided: to propose that 233 of the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 15 June (this decision was taken in consensus), to propose that the second reading of the draft 233 be stopped (also consensually) when the second reading of the draft 233 is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 16 June (also consensually) and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote of 233. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U145	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U146	Good manager! Good waitress! It is clear that many local authorities are affected by this law. How have local authorities responded to this law? Have they accepted all the amendments, or have there been places where there have been differences of opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U147	Thank you. Since the government initiated this draft as an urgent matter in order to help our oil shale sector in particular, and since there has been a draft law on the ground, it has raised questions in local governments. The Commission has referred to this on several occasions and asked the representatives of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment for clarification. I have in my hands a letter from the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, which explicitly states that the state has the right to make any changes in its income and the income of local governments, unless this change conflicts with the guarantee given by the local government in the Constitution. The letter considers that if the proposal for a minimum level of compensation is taken into account and the exact amounts of compensation are negotiated in the Finance and Taxation Working Group during the subsequent negotiations of the Delegation of the Government Commission and the Municipalities Cooperation Council, taking into account the possibility of an increase in the percentage of compensation, there can be no significant objection to the regulation of the change of mining charges provided for in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U148	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us now begin the examination of the amendments proposed by the commission. Ten amendments have been received from the lead committee: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth and the tenth. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading of draft 233 should be completed. The second reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U149	Let's move on. The 12th item is the second reading of the draft Energy Economy Organisation Act 162 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Before we go to the procedure, I will briefly introduce the procedure. First, the presentation of the representative of the commission, which lasts up to 20 minutes, then the questions and answers are, as we customarily do, two oral questions can be asked at second reading, and then the negotiations where all members of the Riigikogu can speak. Of course, we will also examine the amendments. According to § 105 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, we will proceed on the basis of whether the second reading should be interrupted. But now, dear colleagues, I am pleased to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, none other than Kalle Palling, member of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the organisation of the energy economy was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 January. The first reading took place on 17 March and the deadline for tabling amendments, one amendment to the draft was received by the Social Democratic Party Group by 1 April. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also proposed amendments to the draft. In addition, opinions and suggestions were received from the Consumer Protection Board, the Estonian Power Stations and District heating Association, Imatra Elekter AS, the Estonian Gas Association, Eesti Energia AS, Competition Board and Adven Eesti AS. The Commission received views on the amendment from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has been consulted orally on some of the draft provisions. The draft was discussed in the Working Group of the Economic Commission on six occasions: 3 and 29 March, 2 and 24 and 31 May, as well as 7 June. The discussions were usually attended by the responsible hearing officer and the responsible official, representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and a representative of the Competition Authority participated in the last two discussions. As always, the invitation to participate had been forwarded to all members of the Commission. Work materials were also sent to the members of the Commission for information, which enabled them to be kept informed of the progress of the draft debate. The text of the bill, as always, was editorially edited between two readings. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft between first and second readings in a total of seven sessions. Each of them (except for the meeting of 2 June) was attended by representatives of the initiator of the draft from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I will give you a brief, albeit very briefly, a review of the nature of the draft and of the main changes that we have made with this draft is not going to be able to do so. By way of introduction, if, at the time of the introduction of the bill, it was possible to say that this was a good draft, then it can now be said that it is a very good draft, because it has changed considerably since the original draft. Let me remind you what it is. It is a draft law that provides guidelines for energy efficiency in energy production, consumption and distribution, and organises procurement in state-owned buildings. The draft law on the organisation of the energy economy transposes the European Union's Energy Efficiency Directive. The draft provides for obligations for the public sector and the private sector arising directly from the Directive. There are no non-implementation commitments in the draft. The adoption of the measures set out in the draft will further help the country to increase its energy security, thanks to increased energy independence, while reducing primary energy, mineral resources and fuel consumption, and will help to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Increasing energy efficiency is a good tool for solving these problems, especially in Estonia, where the energy intensity of the economy is at the forefront of the European Union. The ratio of primary energy consumption to GDP is three times that of the European Union average in Estonia. The draft law on the organisation of the energy economy consists of thematic blocks. The draft requires the public sector, in particular the central government, to be developed as an example provider of energy efficiency. This would lead the way towards more energy-efficient products, buildings and services and encourage changes in the energy consumption habits of citizens and businesses. The central government authorities are therefore obliged to reconstruct 3% of their buildings annually at least at the level of minimum energy performance requirements (Class D) and to procure only buildings, services and products of the higher energy efficiency class in the future. There are 47 central government institutions in Estonia with a total area of about one million square metres. Thus, about 32000 square metres should be renovated per year. Resources for energy-efficient renovation of buildings have been planned for the state budget. The objective can also be achieved by optimising the working space of a central government institution. The most important issue of the draft is the obligation on the state to achieve a fixed amount of final energy consumption savings of 1.5% of the total energy sold to final customers in the country during the period 01.01.2017 to 31.12.2020. This means that the amount of energy saved in Estonia must be 7.1 terawatt-hours during this period. Such energy savings are largely achieved by taking already planned national energy efficiency measures (taxes, energy saving support measures). Together with the excise increases already approved here in the Riigikogu, it covers 95% of the savings needed, calculated as 6.7 terawatt-hours. According to current knowledge, as you yourself may have calculated, we are still short of the 5% target. In dealing with the draft in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we focused mainly on additional energy saving measures and their financing. At the beginning of the draft law was intended to clearly describe the preconditions for implementing the additional energy saving measures in two ways: by extending the energy efficiency obligations of companies and the possibilities of financing new national measures. As a result of the inclusion process, it was concluded that there is not yet sufficient readiness to implement the energy efficiency obligations of companies in Estonia. Large energy companies focus on developing their own business and improving the efficiency of production and networks. The expansion of the field of activity to end-users would be difficult. In the opinion of economic operators, they are unable to act in this area better than the State has done. As a result of the procedure for the draft, this solution changed significantly in terms of how additional energy saving measures will be implemented. In the course of the Commission's work, we created a much clearer concept than the original draft, which provided for a focus on existing activities. Only if it had been found that things were not enough already happening would a new tax on energy consumers, the so-called energy savings tax, have been introduced. The burden on consumers as a result of this payment would have been low, but the revenues received would have been an additional source of national funding for energy saving activities. During the annual budget process, the Riigikogu would have fully verified the rate of payment and the targeting of revenue. For the first time, the concept described would have led to a clear solution in Estonia, so that we could have achieved our long-term energy saving goals. However, the draft submitted to the Riigikogu's plenary does not foresee any payments resulting from the implementation of energy saving policy, although we considered this on several occasions at the meeting of the Economic Commission. At the meeting of the Economic Commission on 14 June, it was decided not to do so. The version before the Plenary Assembly ensures a minimum transposition of the Directive. We also had in mind the European Commission's reasoned opinion procedure of 23 September last year for not transposing the directive. As a follow-up, we were threatened by court proceedings, where the fine could have reached EUR 3.6 million a year. By adopting the law, however, we guarantee the transposition of the directive, but the mechanism for achieving the objective of a state energy saving obligation is currently not entirely certain that this solution is entirely suitable for the European Commission. The debate on this can therefore continue in the future. In any event, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will have to analyse the additional measures and evaluate all important activities indirectly contributing to energy savings organised by the State, such as income tax measures (tax exemption on interest on residential loans, tax exemption on reinvested capital, etc.). In addition, of course, the resource efficiency activities of companies need to be reviewed. In summary, however, in the context of energy saving, it can be said that we should not be dealing with energy saving policy because of the demand from Brussels, but because the Estonian population and companies are still vulnerable from the point of view of energy security and high energy prices. From other issues, I would point out that the draft requires increased energy efficiency in energy production. To this end, energy producers who build or reconstruct production units with a thermal input exceeding 20 MW, which are thermal power plants, industrial installations or district heating networks, are required to analyse whether it would be economically justified to build these units on the principle of efficient cogeneration. The draft Energy Economy Organisation Act also obliges energy companies to measure the energy use of end-users and to provide free access to end-users' consumption data both in real time and ex post. This concerns not only electricity and gas consumption but also the provision of district heating and domestic hot water services. The draft also provides, in certain cases, that individual heat cost dividers or meters are to be installed on end-users, provided that their use is economically reasonable. According to the requirement of the Directive, the obligation to conduct energy audits at large companies every four years has been included in the draft in order to create the prerequisites for achieving large-scale energy savings in the wider industrial sector. However, these two topics are not new in Estonia. Individual heat meters are already being installed, and we are also at the forefront in the European Union in the installation of remotely readable electricity meters and making available consumption data. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has also carried out energy audits by large companies since the end of last year. The draft law on the organisation of the energy economy also addresses the new minimum requirements for energy audits and the setting of competence requirements for energy auditors, but there are also provisions to improve the verification of the competence of persons working in energy efficiency activities. So much for what took place between the two readings of the draft in six working groups and seven sittings of the Commission. I presented the principles that we discussed, which we gave up in some cases, and where we have come up with the draft that is here before us today. Now I am talking about procedural decisions and proposals. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided (consensually) to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 15 June and to propose that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading of the draft is closed, we will be proposing a third reading on 16 June and a final vote on the draft. Thank you so much for listening. It was a long summary. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U151	Thank you. The conclusion was long and awkward. There are questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Both your report and the explanatory statement make it clear that the Commission has worked very long and hard on this draft, and that the increasing administrative burden on the country and also on companies, which raised many questions at first reading, is not going to exist. How, then, can we know whether this solution is suitable for the European Commission? Nor did I quite understand that if the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications proposed some other interim solutions (invoking a network tariff for energy savings investments and energy saving taxes), how did they stay with them now? Are they under consideration, or are they now written off?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U153	Thanks for the credit! As regards the inclusion of an investment tariff, we will come back to this issue when we are discussing the electricity market law here. Since the energy savings fund, as such, fell out of the bill, we didn't talk about it at all. These thoughts remain, but the right place for this topic is the Electricity Market Act, the procedure of which, hopefully, can finally begin in the Chamber of Riigikogu. However, as regards energy saving payments, these interim solutions and whether this solution is suitable for the European Commission, we will only know this once we have presented the draft that we will hopefully adopt here tomorrow as a law. According to preliminary information, on 16 June the European Commission had to turn to court against us. This infringement procedure has been going on for so long. But yesterday we received information that since this week's bill is the second and third reading, and we have a solution to propose, they have decided to abandon their plan. Let's hope that's okay with them. It is also good to know, in itself, for the transposition of the following directives, whether there must always be an enormous number of alternatives, whether to be very careful, to do all the exercises and a little more, or whether a minimum programme is enough. Estonia has always gone to the maximum program. Maybe it's just that we've always wanted to be too ambitious. But when it comes to how much we should try, as I said in my speech, we do not have to do it for Brussels, but we have to do it for Estonia, for Tallinn, Tartu, Käru and Sillamäe, and, of course, for Pärnu, so that we can contribute funds to the energy efficiency of buildings in these cities and settlements. However, since we do not offer new solutions other than the measures already in place and the increases in excise duty, we still need to achieve this 5%. However, since we went to the minimum program, there is a very clear government arrangement here, or I do not know if it is an order, but it is at least a pressure. After all, we also spoke on the previous agenda that the country has a number of implementing bodies that are involved in the performance of the national functions, and now all these measures, every single one that counts for energy efficiency, the KIC investment, for example, must be included in this energy saving obligation. At the moment, we do not have the information that all these investments are included in this commitment. In this sense, there is such good practice. Indeed, the meetings we held during this draft were, I think, all scenarios have been reviewed and now it is necessary to measure in concrete terms each year how far we are. I do not think that we have any concern about meeting this 5%. If the money's missing, we'll take it at the expense of another measure, there's nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U154	Thank you. Let's move to Jõgeva and Tartu County now. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U155	Good manager! Good waitress, I want to thank you too! It seems that the Commission has done some very serious work at its meetings. The second possibility is that the bill that was sent to you was relatively crude. There are 35 amendments and they are very meaningful and explaining. But I'm asking about Amendment 15. The reason for this proposal is as follows: 'The word has been amended to make it clear that the energy efficiency development plan is not a national strategic planning document to be followed, such as under the State Budget Act... ' So I'm asking who or for whom are we discussing this draft law on the organisation of the energy economy here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U156	We're still discussing this for ourselves. I guess those sections of the law are in the form they are. But it is beautifully stated here that it is not a document that must be followed in a way such as the strategy document adopted under the State Budget Act, etc. This gives us a little more flexibility in taking action. As we know, the State Budget Strategy Paper is very specific and within the framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U157	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U158	Thank you very much for your answer. But I have one more question. You started by proposing an amendment only by the Social Democratic Party Group. When I look at these 35 amendments, I see that there are no proposals from the Social Democratic Party Group among them. Did they withdraw their proposal for improvement, or what happened to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U159	Yeah, they took it back.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U160	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. 35 amendments have been received, all from the lead committee, and the position is that they should be fully taken into account: the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is that the second reading of draft 162 should be completed. The second reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U161	Let's move on to item 13. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Flag Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I request the Minister of Enterprise of the Riigikogu Chair Liisa Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Estonians are very much a people of flag religion. The flag is sacred to all of us. We raise the flag when we celebrate happy events, but we raise the flag even when we remember those who have fought for our country or who have been persecuted. Raising the flag is one of the ways in which we affirm the cohesion of our country and our people. My proposal and the proposal of the entire government coalition is to complete the Estonian flag law with a new flag day. This would be the business day scheduled for the Thursday of the first full week of October. This year it would be on 6 October. Those in this hall are probably used to being received every morning when they come to work by the state flag raised in the Long Hermann Tower. But the metalworker from Central Estonia, the timber company from South Estonia, the IT company from Harjumaa or the shipbuilder from Saaremaa does not see it every day, he does not sense every day that his work is also very necessary for the state. I will make two main arguments as to why business day deserves to be a flag day. The aim of the day is to value and recognise the entrepreneur as the creator of values in society. Flag day is symbolic recognition, which shows that entrepreneurs, like entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, are fundamental values without which our society does not function. Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship require much greater awareness and recognition in society and greater awareness of the role of entrepreneurs in different social groups. That is why I believe that the connecting flag day is a very appropriate approach. I would like to stress that this flag day will certainly not be empty. On 8 October last year, Estonia celebrated entrepreneurs' day as a flag day for the first time. At the time, it was a one-off decision of the government, but the tradition had been successfully established. The possible future marking of business day in the form of a non-flagged day would give a negative signal to businesses as well as society at large. The expectation of entrepreneurs, as expressed by both the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, is that last year's flag day will not remain a one-off campaign, but the state will continue to value and recognise entrepreneurs on a permanent basis. The recognition and valuing of economic operators must be an activity of a lasting nature, which makes the introduction of a flag day in the law practical and avoids any decision-making on a case-by-case basis. As an important aspect, I would like to add that flag day is also the highlight of business week, when entrepreneurs and business promoters deserve to be highlighted are recognised. This is done in competitions "Business Awards" and "Remember the promoter of entrepreneurship!" ' in the finals. Thus, the flag day adds value to already existing events. Flag days mark events that are of value and historical importance to Estonia, such as the anniversary of the Tartu Peace Treaty, the Victory Day, the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, but also value important values in Estonian society by raising the flag, such as mother tongue day, knowledge day, but also veteran's day or tribal day. Entrepreneurship creates the values by which society functions, develops and grows and is a clear guarantee of the sustainability of our society. It is therefore fully respectful and dignified to recognise entrepreneurs by flag day in order to demonstrate that they are recognised by the state and society as the creators of values essential to society. The business day as a flag day shows that entrepreneurial activity and entrepreneurial activity are one of the fundamental values alongside other values. For all those critics who think that there are already many anniversaries in Estonia, I say that there is no point in worrying. Those times have passed when the day of residential and utilities was celebrated across the country, the day of service workers or the international day of co-operation. Now, at the same time, we respect and appreciate all those who contribute as taxpayers, as creators of jobs, as risk-takers, as innovators. By the way, there are quite a few in this Chamber that we can raise the flag on October 6. I wish you an entrepreneurial mind and strength in further processing of the draft. I am, of course, always ready to answer your questions or even your doubts. The entrepreneur is the right hand and left hand of our country, without whom we would not have a future. It must be recognised and appreciated. The new flag day is certainly not a political act, but it does not mean that entrepreneurs want to make themselves more important. I sincerely believe that business day is the missing link in the chain of our country's anniversaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U163	Thank you. There are a lot of questions for you. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This is certainly a very important draft that you have brought here to promote entrepreneurship in Estonia. But please explain whether you have thought of this day as a day of mourning when the flag is drawn to the sides of the rod, or still as a day of celebration. If it is meant to be a celebration, why should Estonian entrepreneurs party when economic growth decreases?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U165	Thank you, good questioner! This day is, of course, designed to recognise Estonian entrepreneurs. This day is not only intended for entrepreneurs to celebrate their existence, but also for the country and the rest of the people to show that entrepreneurs deserve this recognition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U166	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U167	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, good minister. We have discussed this with business. They're not gonna be thrilled by this flag day. It seems more like a mockery to entrepreneurs that the state, with one hand, shuts their throats and puts on taxes, but with the other hand, gives on candy. Who did you talk to to to do this flag day? Was that your idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U168	Thank you. I can refer here to two of Estonia's largest operators' organisations. In its opinion, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has said that the Chamber of Commerce supports the idea of adding entrepreneur's day to the flag days. The opinion of the Estonian Employers' Confederation also makes clear that they are in favour of business day as the flag day, considering that this way a strong message is given to entrepreneurs and the public that the state recognises entrepreneurs and considers their contribution to the welfare of all citizens to be important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U169	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U170	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Yes, we certainly do not have too many flag days and why not raise the flag in honour of the entrepreneurs. However, I hope that this raising of the flag will rather remind the government of the need to support entrepreneurship. But in fact, the Estonian people are not a very big banner. If you're going to town on some big anniversary, you can see that maybe two or three flags are flying from ten houses. Once upon a time, it was mandatory for the flag to be raised on the deadline. Have you discussed how you can make people raise the flag? In a private house, there may be no one at home, but in cooperatives and companies, for example, it might be possible to restore the former order so that flags should fly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U171	Thank you. This question goes beyond the framework of the bill. We did not discuss such fundamental issues during this particular draft procedure. As a result, I can only express my personal position. I do not consider it right to make flagging compulsory again, and employers' organisations have expressed the same opinion. But I will certainly do what I did last autumn in the coming autumn, i.e. on behalf of myself as Minister for Enterprise, I call for the flag to be raised that day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U172	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U173	Good manager! Good minister! Looks to me like you're in substitution. You said that entrepreneurs create value. Teachers are celebrating their day on October 5th, and it happens to be not the flag day, but the next day, October 6, is now the flag day. How do you explain that to them? Why is there a difference that teachers' day is not a flag day, but entrepreneur's day is a flag day?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U174	Thank you. This flag day we've been proposing is a moving holiday. This year it would really be October 6. But the recognition of teachers is certainly also extremely important. In my opinion, we do this when we raise the flags on the day of knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U175	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, To me, too, this approach, with such symbolic steps, seems somewhat odd. It may be beautiful, but it's not going to improve the business situation. Why do the Social Democrats not, for example, initiate discussions on the state of the Estonian business environment as an important national issue instead? I think that would be much more appropriate. How are we going to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and ensure the competitiveness of the Estonian business environment? I think that you, as Minister, should answer precisely such questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U177	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Enterprise! I have to admit, you're a brave minister. You come here and really stand up for the people in this area you've been invited to work for. I very much appreciate that. The fact that the Minister of Education did not wish to make the teacher's day the flag day is irrelevant. I'm very supportive of you. I will certainly fly the flag on 6 October, because the work that entrepreneurs do is really worth recognising, but in Estonian society we talk too little about it. You have also done a great deal of other substantive work and have reached the final stage in developing industrial policy principles. It is noteworthy that this is done in the Republic of Estonia for the first time and especially under the leadership of the Social Democrat Minister for Enterprise. Are you involved in industrial policy, after all, it feeds us by using the words of Mr. Sults from the coalition partners and you believe that you can also get a proper action plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U178	Thank you. If you look at the bill, you can see that one in five people in Estonia is working in the industry and two thirds of our export revenues come from the industry. I am absolutely convinced that the whole coalition will understand the importance of industry and its importance for our economy and will support both the development of this policy and the adoption of the action plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U179	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U180	Thank you! Madam Minister! I have to admit that I am a little embarrassed when I hear the opinion of coalition partners, as if they were somehow outside the coalition as entrepreneurs, when the coalition makes some kind of decisions that are not suitable for entrepreneurs. I do understand the opposition that is saying such a thing, because their political agenda envisages that attention should be drawn to how badly they do, and that is their logical standard of behaviour. But if coalition partners start speaking in the same way as the opposition about these things, which are also stated in the coalition agreement, that they are as bad as businessmen think they are, although, of course, they are voting in favour of all these decisions, it is a little strange. As an entrepreneur, I have felt that an entrepreneur is not always very valued and very often is rather viewed with a slightly suspicious look. Is the entrepreneur still sufficiently valued in society or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U181	Thank you. It's a question of faith. But I have spoken to a number of entrepreneurs and there have been indications that, especially in some media, there is quite a constant stigmatisation of entrepreneurs. This concern exists, and it is also one of the reasons why we want to show in the opposite direction that entrepreneurs are worthy of recognition and extremely important to the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U182	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U183	Thank you, manager. I promise I will now ask a substantive question. First of all, I hope that this flag day will not break the coalition, because, as far as I know, it is also included in the coalition agreement. But I do not think that the flag day can be done without companies agreeing and favouring it. Do you promise that, between the first and second readings, this list will be put in the explanatory memorandum, which business organisations support this idea and which do not consider it necessary? Without the support of entrepreneurs, this day should not be born.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U184	Thank you. In itself, there has already been reference to the organisations with which they have been negotiated, as well as to their views. I can ask for a review of this, and if there is something that has been left out regrettablely or because of error, the text can be supplemented. But I read to you the views of the two largest Estonian business organisations, which are clearly supportive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U185	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U186	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Am I right to understand that the coalition agreement states that we can celebrate business day in the future? Whose mind came up with the idea that entrepreneur's day could be a flag day? It couldn't be born abstractly in the ministry, it had to be born in someone's head. Who is this respected person?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U187	Thank you. The truth is that the coalition agreement states that we are celebrating business day. I myself was not involved in the coalition agreement negotiations on this topic. Unfortunately, I am indebted to the answer, in whose mind this idea occurred exactly. Often, during the negotiations, thoughts arise in the 'collective consciousness', so I am not sure whether those present will be able to say the name. Unfortunately, I can't say that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U188	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Enterprise! In the comments table, the Estonian Flag Society has made a very serious focus. We have all noticed that the law on our flag provides enough opportunities to respect this flag, but unfortunately there are many companies and institutions that do not respect the flag with sufficient dignity on the flag days already in existence. Can and how can you be sure that with the introduction of the new flag day, the general attitude of our country's flag will improve? How could you possibly contribute to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U190	Thank you. The culture of behavior will certainly not change by adopting a single law. But I believe that the adoption of this law will change the attitude towards entrepreneurs as creators of real value or the general background of this attitude. At all, the attitude towards the flag must change, but I think that this change may rather result in speeches by opinion leaders in this regard. Before the entrepreneur's day, I would certainly like to make an invitation to use the flag, but in exactly the way provided for in the Estonian Flag Act, with dignity and respect for our flag and country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U191	These examples occur almost every day. Today we were talking about fuel excise. A good colleague, Monika Haukanõm, has already referred to this problem, which has been raised several times by the Free Party, and which has also been pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice, that a member of the company's board does not get unemployment if he loses his salary, even though he has paid unemployment insurance contributions all the time. The principle that this error should be corrected and the law adjusted has been supported by several political parties here. Well, then why doesn't that happen? Both the principle of establishing a social tax ceiling and the principle of a mandatory minimum social tax, which the Free Party has highlighted in its drafts and which has been nicely rejected in this Chamber, have been strongly supported by various business organisations. As a member of the Monetary Commission, I have listened to the proposals made by business organisations at the meetings of the Commission, so that something important can really be done to modernise Estonian taxation and implement new innovative ideas. They have been heard and, at best, they have been said to be intellectually interesting, but now is not the time to do it. If the coalition is like this, I would say so, as we have already heard from our good colleague Einar Vallbaum, it is no wonder, sorry, that entrepreneurs also take the idea of this day, as we have already heard from our good colleague Einar Vallbaum, to put it mildly, with shoulder construction. A little comical is the idea, offer something better, the entrepreneurs will essentially say to the government coalition. We, too, believe that the government should offer something better than merely valuing business day with flagging. The Free Party Group therefore proposes to reject the draft 230 at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U192	Einar Vallbaumi, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please speak to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U193	I thank the waitress! Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Andres Ammas, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U194	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party Andre Sepa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U195	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a discussion. It is possible that, at the end of this season, we have come to the conclusion during the 230 discussions on the draft law that there has been too little debate between the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu committees, the government and entrepreneurs. This is clearly the way to understand today's debate. Today's speeches, speeches and questions gave the impression that there was a desire to oppose the legislator and the entrepreneur. An entrepreneur, or one, two or three groups of people responsible for entrepreneurship, and this hall here, who, as legislator, makes laws, changes them and wants to legitimise the celebration of the same flag day. Ladies and gentlemen, The meaning of this day in society is, in fact, wider. Only two parties, the Riigikogu and the government and the entrepreneur have not been kept in mind. All sides of Estonian society have been taken into account, be they teachers, business organisations, entrepreneurs or other people involved in entrepreneurship mentioned in this very hall. The Reform Party does not see that the recognition of entrepreneurship and the introduction of this flag day is in any way humiliating, soiling or unsupporting for entrepreneurs; rather, it is indeed symbolic and constructive. Knowing history, the flag is a symbol, the flag is designed to symbolize its language, people, culture, and related activities. This amendment to the flag law is also a step in the direction that we value this very large part of society. Indeed, the ideas that have been said in this Chamber today that the current flag law should be reviewed are also worthy of attention. I call on you, on behalf of the Reform Party, to discuss this. That is why the three readings of the draft are foreseen so that we can improve the draft between the first and second readings. In any case, the Reform Party supports the completion of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U196	Thank you. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Jaanus Marrand!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, No doubt you can make fun of all kinds of days and discuss whether there are many or few flag days. This, of course, is always the subject of the debate. I'm an entrepreneur, too. Many things I do not like in Estonia and I feel that they could be better done. I'm a rural entrepreneur, and the turnover of these companies is pretty high. But I have sensed this as an entrepreneur that the attitude towards an entrepreneur who pays taxes and actually maintains the country is not always positive. The recognition of businesses is never too much. As an entrepreneur, I can also say that there will never be a situation in which entrepreneurs will be satisfied that the state has done everything for them and everything is very well. There's a lot to argue about, but there's one thing I don't understand. That's why I came here on the remote. Why do entrepreneurs who are also members of the Riigikogu place themselves in "two different positions"? Two speeches ago, there was an entrepreneur who spoke very heatedly, just like the entrepreneur, that they did so and that they would like to do so. It's actually a two-butt syndrome. A person has one ass, and he cannot tell entrepreneurs that everything has been done wrong and that is what is done wrong and badly in Estonia, when he has signed a coalition agreement as a politician and is, in fact, the initiator of a government bill. He himself has voted in favour of all these drafts, which have often been considered questionable by one person, another person or third person. But all of us who make laws here also know that almost always we have to choose between good, bad or worse, and there is always some use in lawmaking somewhere. Yeah, of course, no one likes the fact that fuel excise increased. I don't like it either! But I know very well that fuel prices are actually very much cheaper now than before and that the company that produces cash flows has significantly lower fuel costs, while we have received funding for some other benefit that is very important for the country and the people. So you don't want to contradict the state, but at the same time, one person can't be in both positions at the same time. This is ridiculous. When crocodile tears are poured here first, but then the green or red button is pressed as it should be, it's ridiculous behavior. This is not the way one undertaking can actually behave. The company must be in a very clear position and be able to protect it. Now, if you look at the importance of this flag day, there really must be a number of additional legislative proposals, and perhaps a whole policy must follow. I came to this Chamber from an industrial policy debate, which produced an industrial policy document that looks to the future. It was discussed what is the Green Paper on Industry, which sets out very clearly what are the principles on which our industry, where values are created, could be based. This is all that the Minister for Enterprise must deal with, for example, and all this is being dealt with consistently. I repeat, recognition is never too much. The value of entrepreneurship, one small extra grain for the company to be more valued, is certainly the flag day. It is therefore worth supporting this draft. Let's take one step, take the other step, take the third step. After all, the Estonian state has developed on the part of entrepreneurs and is definitely developing further. Let's not see a ghost where it's not. Let us think positively, but not so schizophrenicly, because it leads us nowhere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U198	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U199	Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, entrepreneurship is something that must be respected. There is no doubt about that, because it is only entrepreneurship that will take us forward, which will make our country and our people more prosperous, which will make us'more equal' to the old Europe. At the same time, I have so much age that I can remember a little bit about old times. Listening to this fancy flag - waving talk, I remembered, for example, a catering program from the Soviet era. The shops were empty of food, and maybe five pieces of pork skin were found at the Õismäe mall's ten counters, but then the Soviet government came up with a noble program, a catering program that was supposed to bring life to a better level, so everyone has food as much as they can eat, production grows, and happiness comes to our yard. Did he come? It didn't happen, and luckily, that monster collapsed. Now there is a situation where the government wants to encourage and respect entrepreneurs in some way. Have we listened to this... I say 'we' all the time. I'm sorry, I'm still thinking about the government! Has the government listened to what entrepreneurs want, what they want? Every day we read about all kinds of conversions, articles from different areas of life, articles from people in different economic areas that are needed for the Estonian economy to develop and move forward: we need to cut red tape, review the tax system and support agriculture so that it does not die out. But what have we got instead? The government comes with a procession, flags flying, and says it brings us luck in the yard. No, I won't! We heard the people of the business associations laugh about it. I, too, have been in private business for a very large part of my life, and frankly it makes me laugh. So a recommendation to the Government and to the Minister: please do specific things that will help our businesses and our entrepreneurship, not do such substitution activities. Conservative People's Party does not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U200	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable ministers! I will start with the Business Day Conference that took place a few years ago, where Sven Mikser said that the state should take steps to get businesses out of the comfort zone. This led to a great deal of passion in Estonia. Many entrepreneurs said that they were putting down business because they have worked already days and nights, they have not taken into account whether it is Saturday or Sunday, they have not looked at the time, but they will come and they will be told that they are in the comfort zone. It was almost a political battle. It must be said that then Mr Aas, President of the Economic Commission for Business, and Mr Ligi, President of the Economic Commission, spoke good words about entrepreneurs. But about a month ago, Liisa Oviir said on Vikerraadio, "Daytimer" that the state should not allow entrepreneurs to descend into the comfort zone and should put pressure on them. Is this the pressure to make the flag day, or is it asking for forgiveness? The discussion between the state and businesses only means that companies have to fill the Treasury, nothing more. Let's see what the situation is with the increase in excise duties on fuels, and let's see that excise duty on alcohol is immediately coming on to the tourist industry. Let us look at the situation of our agriculture, the situation of our farms and how much help has been given to our farms. Many farmers close the barns, and the cows are sold to Poland. But we're talking flag day. It's kind of sad! Only recently, Attorney-at-Law Leon Glikman said that Estonia has become a tax haven, referring to the predatory social tax imposed on employers, in which Estonia is the third largest in European countries. Is this good for entrepreneurs too? In light of all this, it seems more than unfair to talk about a comfort zone for entrepreneurs. Symbolic, I would say,'support', or compulsory flag-shooting, is humiliating, which squirts both the soul of entrepreneurs and the flag of Estonia. That is why I say, ladies and gentlemen, that we should think about whether we are going forward with this law or what we are going to do with it. Don't rush. Let's take this thing by heart and let's not show that we want to do something just to do it. We better do something important for Estonian entrepreneurs so that they feel that the state needs them and the minister supports them, so we can move forward together. But what is being done to just get a point, entrepreneurs really don't need. Today, before I came to this hall, there was a meeting of the employers' council. They wanted me to say for sure that they couldn't tell the minister they didn't want that day, but they all laughed that the minister came up with this. This is the message that the proposal is too childish. Good luck to you, but together, let's think about how to avoid such foolish proposals in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U201	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U202	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Mr Andre Sepa, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U203	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Estonian Flag Act 230 and its first reading at its meeting on 30 May. The draft was introduced by Liisa Oviir as Minister of Enterprise and Piret Treiberg as Head of the Economic Development Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Let me briefly talk about the debate that took place in preparation for the first reading. The Minister of Enterprise introduced the draft law amending the Estonian Flag Act 230 to the Commission and gave explanations, as he did today on the floor. A discussion in the Commission took the form of questions and answers. It was asked whether such a day would also be celebrated in our neighbouring countries in Europe. We received a reply that no practice with the same format has been found in countries close to Estonia. It was argued that there are various ways of recognising, that recognition at the level of the Riigikogu would be one of them, and that it would not be replaced by the hallmark of any minister or non-governmental organisation, which, although relatively much is being done elsewhere. There was a question that was now put to the Minister in this Chamber, whether the flag law should not be looked at more widely and whether the requirement to illuminate the flag 24 hours a day is not too strict, as the current failure to illuminate is a mere violation of the law. It was considered that, if the draft flag law is already in the process, the whole law should be reviewed, evaluated and, where possible, supplemented. One Member of the Commission pointed out that the proposal was a good one, but gave rise to mixed thoughts. Firstly, any citizen can use the flag of the state in a dignified manner if he or she so wishes, there are really no restrictions here. Secondly, the flag law contains a list of those days when public authorities have the obligation to hoist the flag, but there are no business days on that list. If we are talking about entrepreneurship as an activity, setting the business day as the flag day would in some ways be a precedent. If we do so, there will certainly be more activities that we want to value with the flag day, and at one point we may have quite a few flag days. The Minister stated that it was the proposal to supplement the flag days with an entrepreneur's day, referring to the clause of the coalition agreement, which provides for the establishment of a celebration of such a day. One member of the Commission noted that there are three mandatory flag days in Estonia. Anyone can think about how many times he has raised a flag on tribal day, for example. If more flag days are made, can it not be that no one in these days actually raises the flag, but tends to forget that obligation? Perhaps there should be fewer flag days, but it is not excluded that entrepreneur's day could also be among those days. Observations were also made on the fact that celebrating business day as such is, of course, a sympathetic idea, but it is also very gratifying that there has been a debate about the need to introduce this flag day, which we also had in the Commission for a long time. They asked whether this issue had been discussed in the Cabinet and, if so, what positions had been taken. The minister replied that, of course, the bill had passed through the government and, by the decision of the government, it had reached the Riigikogu. Decisions are taken by consensus in the government, so the coalition's partners have jointly supported this proposal. It also asked why the Minister did not gather business organisations and, with them, did not implement this idea. The Minister replied that last year the business day was celebrated as a one-off campaign, but it is worth setting out the value of entrepreneurship in law. That is how this debate took place in the Commission. We made decisions, too. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session by 15 June (with 7 Commission members and 1 abstention). Secondly, it was proposed to close the first reading with 5 votes in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions. It was also proposed that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 29 June and that a speaker was appointed as rapporteur before you. These decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U204	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable entrepreneurs in this hall and elsewhere, if you're supposed to be watching our broadcast! The discussion of this question is quite a good example of how a seemingly very simple matter can indeed become a question that raises a great deal of hesitation and doubt. It is very easy to take such a pathetic and rhetorical position here, which I also heard on the question of the representative of some coalitions, à la do you not support this bill, do you not appreciate the flag of Estonia, do you not want our beautiful Estonian flags to wave, do you not love entrepreneurs, do entrepreneurs not deserve their day, etc. I am such an old person that I have heard this kind of rhetoric before Estonia regained independence. Although the Minister said indeed from this board that the Soviet era has long passed and that there will never be such an excess of meaningless and incomprehensible days again, let us be honest, in fact, this campaign is still a bit of a consultative period. When Mr Ernits put it mildly and carefully that it was not a substitute, I would say that this is such a prominent and classic example of substitution, if any. It's a pseudo-problem and a pseudo-question. I asked who had the idea in his mind that entrepreneur's day could be the flag day at the same time. I'm afraid this person wasn't from this hall, or anyone in the cabinet, or anyone from the politicians at all. This is exactly the kind of idea and project that arises during election campaigns in the heads of advisers at a communication office, who recommend politicians to implement certain political technologies. This is an example of political technology. There may be a difference of opinion as to whether we have too many, too few or too many flag days. I apologise for not coordinating the following statement with my group, but I think we already have too many flag days more than too few. I think it's more like less, but better. It would be better to ensure that the flags are really waving on the already established and agreed flag days, with the correct appearance and the right hoisting. Making more days may not be a good idea. The business day must be celebrated and can be celebrated in a different way. I am also pleased to note that last autumn there was a business award service ceremony, at least on the TV screen, at an outstandingly good level, in a truly motivating and respectful way for entrepreneurs. If the government coalition does something to make sure that entrepreneurship education in schools develops and expands and creates more student companies, these are the kind of activities that are good and nice signs and promote entrepreneurship. As far as I'm concerned, that's the kind of sign the minister puts on his wrist a watch set up by a student company. But when the ministers from this speaker day by day tell us how the coalition promotes entrepreneurship, but in fact it behaves in the opposite direction, it is very difficult to believe in the sincerity of the government. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U205	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U206	Thank you. I am still here with the draft law amending the Estonian Flag Act. Of course, the issues you have raised are extremely important, and these are the things that I face every day in my work. For example, yesterday we once again had a meeting of the zero bureaucracy working group, where we discussed precisely how to reduce the administrative burden on businesses. These questions are important, but it is just as important to understand that one law never makes the whole life suddenly good and beautiful. This is just one way to show entrepreneurs that we really appreciate them, but I believe it is also important from this perspective that it helps to strengthen the feeling of becoming an entrepreneur in young people that it could be an end in itself. Here the Estonian state is actually behind many other countries, in the sense that many graduates are ready to become entrepreneurs and how many people want to work under someone else. This is one way to put this issue on the agenda, to congratulate entrepreneurs and to say thank you to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U207	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I must admit, I very much agree with the two above-mentioned words. This flagging does not seem to be the most important issue at the moment. Of course, flag day has symbolic meaning, and it highlights one group. But I wonder exactly why, for example, on 15 March, when we celebrate International Social Work Day, social workers are very important to support the livelihood of our people, the flag does not raise or why we do not fly the flag on 26 November when it is civic day. We can take the appropriate issues into consideration in all these days; these do not need to be flag days. I think it is far more important that we deal with the matter in substance, for example, with the social guarantees of businesses and the restoration of unemployment insurance, which we have drawn attention to twice, which has been brought to the attention of the Chancellor of Justice and which has found support in this Chamber. My question is, when do we get to the issue of social guarantees, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U209	Thank you. Yes, there are quite a few days and Riigikogu members have the same right to initiate drafts with the wish to declare these days as flag days. I don't quite agree with them being all on the same scale. There are a very large number of entrepreneurs in Estonia, and they are those who actually create values every day, who also create the value that is distributed here in the Riigikogu to weaker groups. So since I am now also in the role of Minister for Enterprise, it is quite understandable why I am speaking precisely for the sake of entrepreneurs and their interests. But once again, I assure you, of course, it is not the only thing. In the same way, substantive issues are important, and at some point in time the Riigikogu will be in front of the government. But this bill, which is here before you and which I am speaking about, is precisely about celebrating business day as a flag day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U210	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U211	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Minister of Entrepreneurship! You reminded me of the times when the red flag was waving very highly. I hope that time never comes back. You have pointed out that companies produce value. But at the same time, the government has done everything in its power to increase the cost of production. We are talking here about an increase in excise duties on fuels, and fuel is very important for a number of raw industries. What have you done to the government as Minister for Enterprise to recognise the real value of entrepreneurs through various projects and programmes? What is your answer to the letter from the Chamber of Commerce, which also wants more attention to be paid to substantive activities? Yes, they agree with the general concept, but expect the government to recognise companies in substance through tax policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U212	Thank you. There were a lot of things here. First of all, when you say that the government has done one, another or third thing with excise duties, I am still forced to say that the Riigikogu has also been involved in this matter. However, as regards the remaining issues, which are purely government competence, the organisations supporting entrepreneurs are currently being reviewed in order to make their work even smoother, more focused on the business environment and consistent with strategies. In the same way, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is in the process of preparing a document on industrial policy, which must promote this part of entrepreneurship and which shows the direction in which we should go. Substantial initiatives have been taken under several ministers, just now I am here to defend the flag day law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U213	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U214	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Both in your presentation today and in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, I think there was a strange argument. Since last year the government ordered the flags to be raised as a one-time act or authorised it, now, half a year later, the Riigikogu will have to adopt a legislative amendment to this effect afterwards. Which way are these things supposed to go, isn't that the Riigikogu and then the government first? The government has put the Riigikogu in a kind of coercive situation in the course of last year. Of course, businesses now have a legitimate expectation that the flags will be raised that day. Why this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U215	Thank you. Last year there was a situation that, for purely procedural reasons, the Riigikogu Chamber failed to make this decision and that led to a one-off decision by the government. This statement, to which you referred, was rather due to the fact that it could be done all the time with a one-off regulation, but if there is a desire, a desire and a need, we think it is reasonable to do so as a longer-term amendment and not to stick to a one-off regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U216	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U217	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U218	Thank you, manager. Madam Minister! Why is the government not dealing with very specific problems for entrepreneurs? Just today, the Estonian Employers' Confederation addressed Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas with a proposal to reinstate excise duties on fuel at 2015 level. As we know, the next year, the next year and the next year, fuel excise duties will rise. Do you care if you turn this way? Is anyone in the government handling this? This is particularly the case for Estonian entrepreneurs, which is why the state budget suffers, etc. Is that what anyone in the government is doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U219	Thank you. As you rightly pointed out, this appeal came today and it was submitted to the Prime Minister. I'm pretty sure someone in the government is working on it. Excise duties are generally the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. But, yes, I can tell you that the government's going to have to deal with the appeals, and we're going to deal with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U220	I ask that we remain within the scope of the 230th draft as possible. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The flag day and the recognition of people are a worthy act. But the flag doesn't feed. Could it be an addition to or addition to the flag day that fuel companies and alcoholic operators would be exempt from excise duty, in the tourism sector it would be VAT-free and income tax-free for pensioners so that they could feel like a person one day a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U222	Thank you. I think that the administrative burden of such a change would be so great that it would already be pointless in its conception. Furthermore, it would run counter to a number of legal principles, which would make it impossible to organise it in legal terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U223	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U224	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! You mentioned a number of organisations you've spoken to. I belong to the same organizations, I belong to their councils. I'm a member of the Big Business Association. All these organizations actually got a pretty good laugh when this bill was sent to them. What were we supposed to say as polite people? If you want to do this, do it! But it's not really what any organization wants. We'd like you to do more serious things, not this flag day blouse. That's why I'm asking if it makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U225	Thank you. I have different information from several entrepreneurs and business organisations, and they support it. So, yeah, I think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U226	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U227	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, the Estonian flag does not feed, yet it provides spiritual food. It's really beautiful when he's flying in the wind, much prettier than when he's waiting under the shed. My question is rather that there are a number of regulations in the flag law. In my company's territory, too, the flag has always been raised, but the law says that if the flag is unlightened, it should be lowered in the evenings when the sun goes down and raised again in the mornings. Perhaps we should take steps towards raising the Estonian flag on the territory of Estonian companies. This illumination requirement may be excessive. It would, in my opinion, provide much more than that we create another day when we can raise the flag of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U228	Thank you. At this point, I can only call on the members of the Riigikogu to exercise the right granted to them and the opportunity to submit a draft in order to regulate it. This concrete proposal comes out of the task set out in our draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U229	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U230	Good manager! Good minister! I'll do it again. I asked why teachers' day on October 5 is not the flag day, but this year is the next day, October 6, which should now be the entrepreneur's day, the flag day. Do teachers not bring value to society? Please answer it straight, not spin!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U231	Thank you. I could quote the classics, but I will not, and I will reply directly, that I believe that teachers create a great deal of value for our society and that flags are raised in honor of knowledge on the day of knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U232	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U233	Good manager! Good Minister of Entrepreneurship! I come to this issue that has been asked about several times. I admit I'm an entrepreneur, too. Unfortunately, there are not many entrepreneurs in this Chamber, but I understand that you did not even bother to summon us when discussing this bill and ask whether we want this flag day. Today, to say that this good idea is not at all related to the law of the rest of Estonia's flag is a bit strange. Do I have to go to all my companies this morning to raise a flag and lower it at night? The current flag law requires this. If you read the flag law from the beginning to the end, maybe you can tell me, do I have to ask the local government for permission instead? Can't we make such an agreement that every time it comes October 6th, you come here with some good bill that supports entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U234	Thank you. I don't think we can make such an agreement here right now because it's another time and another place. But I can assure you that I will definitely come here every year, but perhaps not exactly on that day with a number of draft laws that will make life easier for an entrepreneur in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U235	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Indeed, there is point 8.17 in the Coalition Agreement, which says that the date of the undertaking is to be celebrated. You did not answer Andres Ammas' question, who thought that entrepreneur's day had to be the day of the Estonian flag rather than the day of entrepreneurs. Also, if this law is passed, are you going to give every company a new flag because there are standards that the flag should not be ragged or dull? What does this bring to the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U236	Thank you. We certainly don't see the flag as a gift. I'm sure it was a little bit of a drag on you because you don't need it either. If the company thinks this day is important, it will raise the flag in this case. In fact, companies should have a flag, because in certain cases the raising of the flag is mandatory. Because of this, there is really no provision for this gift. You rightly quoted the coalition agreement, which says that a celebration of the business day will be introduced. Now we're setting up a business day as a flag day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U237	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U238	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I see that Taavi Kõivas tweeted on Twitter, for example, on 7 January 2014 so that business day should be done. Can I say, then, that while the Reform Party promised tax-free Fridays to entrepreneurs in the run-up to the 2011 elections, for the next elections they came up with something cheaper than a business day? Perhaps there should be other positive initiatives alongside this day that would make Estonia's business environment more positive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U239	Thank you. I can confirm that alongside this day there are initiatives to improve the business environment, starting with zero bureaucracy, and ending with improving competitiveness and reviewing national structures. So there are other measures, too, this is only one part. This measure, when it can be taken as a measure, is specifically designed to shape the general sense and spirit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U240	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U241	Good manager! Good minister! You answered my question that you will certainly bring some good drafts to the Riigikogu that will support and improve the business environment. Can you tell us what bill you'll come before us in the fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U242	I can mention a few things I'm waiting for in the cabinet right now. The intention to set up a business agency and a so-called development bank has been pending at the most. If we really want to create it, if the government coalition is in agreement that a development bank should be created, then that is the kind of thing that must reach the Riigikogu. I hope it's the next thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U243	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U244	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, how do you comment that the Estonian Flag Society does not support this initiative? I think they have moral authority. In fact, it could have been that the idea of flag day could have been proposed by the entrepreneurs themselves along with the Estonian Flag Society. It is up to you to promote a substantive business policy with Taavi Clothes, not to take on the role of ceremony master here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U245	Thank you. I am very clearly convinced that a member of the government has several roles; one of these roles is certainly the culture of certain values in society. As Minister for Enterprise, I would like to strengthen the value of entrepreneurship, for example, in society. That is why I firmly believe that business day is appropriate and, as a flag day, it also shows respect for entrepreneurs. We held a different position than the Estonian Flag Society. However, look at these statements of support. The Estonian Flag Society is, in fact, the only one who has remained in a different position. All the other organisations with whom we talked and who have been mentioned at the end of the explanatory memorandum were supportive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U246	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what would you still say to the Estonian Flag Society, who has said that this is not exactly what they expect, and above all should entrepreneurs take care of raising the flag on already existing flag days?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U248	Thank you. I fully agree that current responsibilities must be met. I understand that the problem with society is, in fact, that they are afraid that new and more sectoral flag days will come. It seems to me that this fear is in vain. After all, there is a government and a Riigikogu who can regulate it very successfully. I simply believe that it is good and right to highlight this particular day in terms of the development of the economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U249	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U250	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Will there be other such fine proposals and drafts from the government in the future? After all, apart from entrepreneurs, we have very nice trade workers, workers in the agricultural sector, customs workers and do not know who else, teachers were already mentioned. This list could be very long, because all these people deserve the same respect. Will the government come up with such initiatives?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U251	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that trade and agricultural workers are equally covered by the business day, because they are also entrepreneurs. But, as far as I know, the government is not currently in the process of amending the flag law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U252	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 230. The proposal of the Free Party Group is to reject the draft 230 at first reading. We will vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Free Party Group 230 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 17 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 33 against it. The proposal was not supported. I will set the deadline for the submission of 230 amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 29 June. First reading of Bill 230 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U253	On behalf of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U254	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, A lot has already been said here about what I want to repeat and what I agree with. I'm not an entrepreneur, though I could and maybe I should be. But if you look at these flag days soberly, as the Minister might look at, we can see that it all begins, as we know, with the Day of Remembrance of those who fought in the War of Independence on 3 January and ends in November with Father's Day. When you look at these flag days and at the number of days of service among them, it turns out that, in fact, it is only recently added veteran's day or mercenary day, as some say. These veterans are estimated to be about 2,700. If you think about it further, then there are agencies on which the Estonian state says that the flag should be raised on the day of this occupation, only one, and that is the job of a veteran or mercenary. There's a lot of jobs that actually have a day of office. During the Soviet era, there were especially many, almost every profession, be it metallurgy, conservationist or journalist, had its own day. To date, some of them have remained and some of the agencies are celebrating their day. For example, let me remind you of the secretaries. But these aren't flag days for some reason. I can't imagine Minister Pevkur coming here with the proposal to make the flag day, for example, November 12, Police Day, or Minister Ligi coming here with a bill that teachers' day could be a flag day, or Minister Ossinovski's Prime Minister's duties would come here with the idea that the day of medical staff could be a flag day. I think they would actually be good ideas, because they are very important agencies, but so are all other agencies. If we look at the whole, right now, we only have veterans worth the flag day, and if this bill goes through, if we're in favour of it and we don't send it to the trash, then the entrepreneurs are worth the flag day. The question is not whether companies are important. Mr Marrand asked here furiously how, in this way, Mr Vallbaum does not understand that it is agreed in the coalition agreement that what he is saying is such a story. But I believe, rather, in the words of Mr Vallbaum, that entrepreneurs laugh at this proposal, given the whole background of the Estonian state's attitude towards entrepreneurs. In this sense, it is, I think, a clear substitution. Instead of looking more closely at and improving the lives of businesses, it is easier to come here and propose that the business day be turned into a flag day. Indeed, it is in the coalition agreement, but I did not read that business day should be a flag day. Maybe it says somewhere between the lines with milk that it means flag day. So once again, I think it's the most classic substitute. I can say that this is not only the opinion of many of the IRL members, as well as the members of the Centre Party and the Free Party, but also the opinion of the Social Democrats. (I don't ask for more time.) This is a complete replacement, and I think it should be forgotten, or the Minister could withdraw this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U255	Jaanus Marrand's name was mentioned during the negotiations; he has the right to object. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U256	I'm really overdrawing it. I did not stress in my speech that this is a coalition agreement, but the fact that one person cannot be a politician and another entrepreneur at one point and speak a different story at these moments, sometimes as opposed to his own actions, just as it should, from one sleeve to the other. That was my point. But when it comes to flag days, even when we go to the Nordic countries, we see that the flag flies almost every day around every house. This flag will be waved with honor and pride; at sunset it will be lowered and raised again at sunrise. For my sake, it could be the flag day every day, whether it's the day of the herd or the day of the bully, if the heart feels and feels that way. As a citizen, I admit I don't fly every flag day, but some days are closer to my heart. We're all raising the flag at some point. That is why it is quite bold to say that flag day is not what entrepreneurs can laugh about. True, it does not add much, but it is one of the stones in this wall that we should lay down so that entrepreneurship, as such, is sufficiently valued and we would recognise those who produce us values. True, there are more specialties. There would be no harm in having one Riigikogu set one flag day, another, and that would be five flag days in 20 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U257	The first reading of the draft Act 251 on the Amendment to the Aliens Act, the Citizen of the European Union and the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The originator's waitress is Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U258	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As I was also mentioned in the previous point, I am pleased to say that this draft also concerns businesses, and it is in a positive way. The purpose of the amendments contained in the draft is to encourage and facilitate the residence and work of talent who add value to Estonian society and economy in Estonia. Let me now give you a brief overview of the changes we have proposed to you. Firstly, more flexible regulation to facilitate the immigration of foreigners involved in start-ups. As we know, start-ups create jobs with high added value, they also bring foreign capital to Estonia, and so there is hope that if there are more start-ups in Estonia, the tax receipts will also increase and thus improve the lives of all of us. We would like to provide for exemptions from applying for a visa for business and a temporary residence permit for foreigners engaged in start-up business, as well as for exemptions from registration of short-term work and application for a temporary residence permit for work for employers wishing to employ foreign specialists in the start-up business. Secondly, we have a proposal to allow a temporary residence permit for business activities to be granted to large investors and to encourage their family members to come to Estonia with them. The purpose of the amendment is to bring large investments into Estonia and create a better environment for foreign investors in Estonia. Thirdly, in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, we have made information and communication technology one of the priorities. In developing it, we have set a goal so that more ICT specialists and their families can settle in Estonia. In order to fulfil this objective and to ensure that the fulfilment of the immigration limit does not hinder the arrival in Estonia of foreigners that have a significant added value for the development of the Estonian business environment, employees in the ICT sector, foreigners working in start-ups and foreigners engaged in start-up entrepreneurship are excluded from the calculation of the immigration limit. Fourthly, we will simplify the conditions for obtaining a residence permit for foreigners studying in doctoral studies by allowing part-time learning in certain cases. We also encourage foreigners with a doctoral degree to move to Estonia, allowing doctoral candidates and people with a doctoral degree to be granted a residence permit to settle permanently in Estonia under simplified conditions. Fifthly, the benefits imposed on higher education students will also apply to foreigners studying in fourth and fifth levels of vocational training. If we look at the situation on the labour market, we can see that it is precisely for skilled workers and specialists who have completed the fourth and fifth level of vocational training that there is a need for the Estonian labour market. It is therefore reasonable that we encourage the study of such people in Estonia and, later on, we encourage entry into the labour market. Sixthly, the proposal is to make the procedures related to labour migration more flexible, allowing for the exchange of employment with the same employer without having to apply for a new residence permit and the permit of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. In accordance with current procedures, a foreigner must apply for a new residence permit for work as well as for the unemployment fund's permit when moving from one post to another, but this certainly does not make sense when it comes to promotion in the same company, for example, or when the company needs to relocate workers, but the professional requirements to be met remain the same. We also propose that short-term work, up to five days within 30 days, be allowed without registration of short-term work. Practice shows that the current restriction is too strict and it would be reasonable for short-term work to be carried out by foreigners without registration of short-term work. Seventhly, we lose the requirement that an alien must have lived in Estonia for at least two years before his or her spouse can settle here. In a situation where mobility is high, the requirement for a previous two-year residence is an important limiting factor. This is certainly not why the image that emerges is what we think the Estonian state might look like from outside. However, other conditions for granting a residence permit, such as sufficient income, registered residence in Estonia etc., remain valid. Eighthly, we are proposing to make regulation more flexible and simpler. For example, I will mention the requirement that an alien must stay in Estonia for at least 183 days on the basis of a residence permit. It is also proposed to abolish it and to repeal the regulation on registration of short stays away from Estonia, replacing it with a requirement for the purpose of using the residence permit. It is also foreseen that all foreigners legally staying in the country can apply for a residence permit when they are in Estonia. We also propose that the so-called automatic right to a residence permit be granted to a child born in Estonia or residing in Estonia immediately after birth. Currently, foreigners face unnecessary bureaucratic burdens when a child is born into their family. There is also a proposal to exempt foreigners under 15 years of age from the obligation to have an identity card or a residence card, as there is no practical need for it. Ninthly, we have a proposal to move from the residence permit extension procedure to a follow-up procedure with the aim of detecting possible violations of persons by means of control measures. We also have a proposal to adjust the validity of the residence permit. As the initiator of this draft, I can say that we have talked a lot about this draft with business organisations, and both the Chamber of Commerce and the Confederation of Employers agree with these changes. We certainly have a desire to conclude the first reading today, just as the lead committee has proposed, and to come to the adoption of the law already in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U259	Questions for the initiator. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U260	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! If you read this bill, it seems forcefully that it is not the introduction of talent into Estonia, which is the alleged purpose of the bill, but simply the opening of a new immigration pump. Why, for example, should a person entering vocational training be able to bring all his or her whim to Estonia? How can the family who came here live anywhere, even under a tree, without registering their place of residence? These are pretty weird things. Perhaps you can explain this to a person in a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U261	Thank you. You seem to have missed something. The residence permit requirement is still valid. One thing is the residence permit requirement and the other is the residence requirement. If a foreigner comes to live here, the residence requirement still applies, it is not lost anywhere. As far as vocational training is concerned, when you come to Estonia to study either higher education or to study at the fourth or fifth level of vocational training, I think it is very important. When we look at the Estonian labour market, we see that such specialists are very needed in Estonia. That's why I don't see any problem here. If you call it an immigration pump, it's on your personal conscience. I suggest you go in front of the entrepreneurs and try to talk about the fact that it is an immigration pump.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U262	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U263	Thank you. Good waitress! There are many positive and necessary points in this draft. But Estonian entrepreneurs are concerned that there is simply no working hand. There is a particular shortage of workers in sectors requiring manual work, such as service, catering and accommodation. Particularly critical is the situation in rural businesses with fewer working hands. When you introduced the Ministry's work programme to the Committee on Legal Affairs a few months ago, you said that this draft was going to make the minimum salary of an alien sector-specific. A number of business organisations have, as we know, proposed the same thing. Lowering the minimum wage requirement to the average wage will not solve the problems of these companies and will lead to their closure in the long term. What were the arguments that led the government to decide not to support this proposal? How should these companies continue to live in a situation where there is simply no working hands and, according to this draft, a double payment should be made to an alien compared to the average salary in the sector? How should these rural businesses survive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U264	Thank you for your question. We are currently dealing with draft 251. The debate on the next draft must ask the same question again, so we can deal with it. The subject of the salaries is covered by Bill 252. I will also be proactive in telling Jüri Adams, I assume he wants to ask this question, that these two drafts have an undisputed link, both of them amending the Aliens Act. We have simply agreed in the legislative process that the transposition of European Union directives and the amendment of national law outside European Union directives are separate processes, which is why these two drafts bear a different number. If the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu wishes to merge these drafts, it is the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but the reason why the government came here with two drafts was because we have agreed how we will transpose European Union law in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U265	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U266	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! The preliminary work is already done. I wanted to get to the point that this is about straightening up the Aliens Act, from the top to the bottom. This draft concerns this top half, not covered by the Euro Directive, which calls for the law to be straightened down from below, so-called black workers. But how many investors are there who invest a million here and receive a residence permit as a result of the so-called straightening up of the Aliens Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U267	Thank you for your question. It's hard to judge, maybe some psychic can say it, I can't say it in this hall today. I hope there's as many of them as possible. Every additional million investments to the Estonian economy are definitely necessary and will contribute to economic growth in Estonia. If there's 30, there's 30, if there's 60, then there's 60. I wouldn't set time frames for 20 of them a year. Normally, we have reviewed the law about a few years after it came into force. We will see here, too, if Parliament approves this law, what its effect will be. In 2017, we may be able to say more about the impact of the specific change. But if we look at neighbouring countries where such an opportunity exists, we will see that these figures are certainly not in thousands, but rather in tens or hundreds, depending on the size of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U268	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U269	Mr. Minister! I am fully aware that these drafts belong together. I intend to speak on behalf of the Free Party on this issue and speak more about how members of the Riigikogu should deal with this situation. But would you not say to the Chamber and the verbatim right now, which are the two most important political ideas of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U270	Thank you. One of the most important political ideas is definitely reviving the economic environment by creating a completely new legal regulation for start-ups to come to Estonia, in modern English saying start-ups. (Actually, there are more ideas, I find it difficult to say only two, although you asked for two.) The second idea is certainly to cut red tape. This concerns the ICT sector and that if, for example, a person already lives in Estonia and is in doctoral studies, he could stay here and should not leave Estonia in the meantime, apply for a residence permit again, etc. If you wanted two ideas, these are two basic ideas: cutting red tape and encouraging start-up entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U271	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U272	Thank you. It is fun to listen when you talk about how this bill allows the Estonian economy to develop and get more hands on the job. But how does everything go with what is said here that an illegally staying alien can apply for a temporary residence permit from the Police and Border Guard Board? Finnish statistics show that only 10% of immigrants who have been in the country for five years are employed and the percentage of those who have been in Finland for longer is not much higher. How does this contribute to the development of our economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U273	Thank you. Any person who is present in Estonia and who has an employer and a place of work, I am talking about foreigners, has the right to apply for a residence permit to work. He or she must meet all the criteria in the same way as he or she applies for a residence permit to work outside Estonia. There are no differences in that sense. A person wishing to obtain a residence permit for work must fill in the salary bill, to which we will come in the next draft. At present, the current wage requirement is 1.24-fold the average wage. He's got to get a cashier's permit. The unemployment fund must say that it is not possible to find the people needed in this sector or region at that moment, and then it will be possible for a person to obtain a residence permit to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U274	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U275	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! As I understand it, as a result of this law, a hundred foreigners come to us. But if the Euro Directive is about straightening up the Aliens Act on the bottom, on unskilled workers or on the so-called servants, why is there no directive that would attract brains and large investors to the country? Is Estonia the only country to come up with such a draft on its own initiative? Why is there no such Euro Directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U276	Thank you for your question. Countries are all competitors in the global world, even in terms of brains. Our universities are fighting to get the best students, and our business environment is fighting to get the best investors here. The answer is very simple. In fact, all countries are "competitors" on the world market, and everyone is inventing legislative initiatives to attract foreign investors to their country, because foreign investment is an important part of the country's economic growth. We're not special. For example, the residence permit of a large investor has been available to our southern neighbours for several years and other new opportunities are being sought all the time. Estonia has come up with an e-residency programme and we have a tax exemption on reinvested earnings. Such measures have always been taken in Estonia from time to time, as in other countries. This bill has the same purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U277	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U278	Mr. Minister! I think that the concerns of the parties represented in the Riigikogu about the fact that the draft could have undesirable consequences, or at least the consequences, on which some parties believe that voters do not support them, are entirely justified. These are fundamental and legitimate issues. My first question was on the positive aspects. My second question is that it is very difficult to find an explanation in the explanatory memorandum as to what possible new threats or abuses this law could entail in this form. Can you tell us which new types or forms of malice or miscalculation could arise as a result of these changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U279	Thank you for that question. We are rather trying to give the Police and Border Guard Board the opportunity to carry out more checks with this bill. The increase in the possibility of follow-up is a guarantee that, if necessary, we can cancel the residence permit and expel the person. For example, I recently dealt with a case when a person had obtained a residence permit to work, but he had exceeded his allowed stay here. The Police and Border Guard Board identified him as being here too long, he was deported and was also banned from entering Estonia. There is now a greater opportunity to check afterwards and we can do more checks. But the general assumption for all laws is that people are law-abiding. I think we should be guided by the assumption that entrepreneurs are also law-abiding. The main objective of the draft is still to revive the economic environment in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U280	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Did it become clear in the course of the impact analysis how many people studying in Estonia, i.e. in vocational training and doctoral studies, would this law help?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U282	Thank you. We should go through the explanatory statement together. The current practice is set out on pages 23 to 26 of the explanatory memorandum. On this basis, there can also be some conclusion as to, for example, how many residence permits have been issued for learning and how much can be expected that if these people go to doctoral studies, they will continue to apply for a residence permit for work, for example. In any case, if a person has come to Estonia for doctoral studies, it is wise to try to exploit his brain potential to revive the Estonian economy. Once he has completed this study here, it doesn't seem very reasonable to just tell him that his residence permit has now ended and take his ticket to the next train, bus or plane. It would make sense to use his skills to revitalise the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U283	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U284	Good manager! Good minister! I think it's a good bill. But I ask you about granting a short-stay or long-stay visa to an alien when he or she creates a start-up company, with the possibility that his or her family will also receive a visa. Who is the one who decides whether a citizen is capable of creating a start-up company? If at first it seems okay, but after six months, it turns out that the company still doesn't work, what are the consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U285	Thank you. This was one of the most serious disputes during the drafting process on how to assess who is a start-up company and which company is a start-up company. We agreed with business organisations and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that a panel of experts should be set up at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which should involve business organisations, representatives of start-ups and, most likely, experts from the Ministry of Finance. So this will be the mixed committee of private and civil servants, which will have to assess on a case-by-case basis whether it is a start-up company.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U286	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U287	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue with the question of my colleague Jüri Adams. You have prepared this bill and you have today very nicely mentioned the specific positive effects that this will have on our society and our economy. But I'm sure you also analyzed the risk areas. Can you highlight here the risks that arise both in society and in the economy as a result of the application of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U288	Thank you. Entrepreneurship and foreign participation are primarily related to business risks. For example, Mr Kokk asked what would happen if the start-up did not start working. However, if this person wishes to stay in Estonia, he or she may apply for a residence permit on other grounds. If he loses his income at all, he can apply purely theoretically for international protection, which he is unlikely to receive because he has not come here for this purpose. People who come here to set up a start-up are unlikely to apply for international protection. We tried to assess these risks and saw more positive than negative here. By identifying the possible negative consequences, it became clear that they were all linked to whether or not there might be pressure on the Estonian social system. Rather, we had a sense that the pressure on the social system as much as possible is not comparable to the victory achieved in the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U289	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U290	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You said wonderful words before, that your general assumption is that people are acquitted. The world-view difference between the Conservatives and the Liberals is probably coming in here. Our general assumption is that people take advantage of opportunities, as far as they can, rather than being law-abiding, when they can. Are you sure the laws built on such assumptions will work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U291	Thank you. I'm very sorry to hear that when Conservatives have such an opinion that, if possible, everyone's sussing. I hope this is not your party's understanding. I believe in the people of Estonia and, more generally, in the people of Estonia. Of course, there are criminals in the world, of course there are those in the world who want to cheat. But when it comes to the legal space that we create for people, the general assumption is, in my opinion, that we are creating laws for law-abiding people. Very few laws have been created for lawless people, one of which is the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U292	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U293	Good manager! Good Minister, thank you for your very precise answer. I hope that by the time of the next reading it will be clear how exactly this committee will be set up with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. But if everything goes well and a start-up company is set up, then the entrepreneur has the right to bring his family here, both minors and adult children and spouses. Are we ready to offer them social protection, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U294	Thank you. If the start-up goes on nicely, I believe that this family will have nothing to do with normal family benefits. That's the purpose. Of course, there are always risks, especially in start-ups. But these risks exist every day in Estonian society. The Estonian state will certainly be able to fulfil its international obligations in providing social assistance as well as its obligations under national law. I don't see any big problems here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U295	Thank you, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Mart Nutt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U296	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law at the ordinary Constitutional Committee meeting on 7 June. Apart from the members of the Commission, the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, and Ruth Annus, Head of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the adviser to this department, Killu Christine Vantsi. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister for the Interior gave a comprehensive overview of the content of the draft and the reasons why it had been submitted. This was followed by the usual debate in the Commission. I will bring out some more important aspects. Member of the Commission Mikhail Stalnukhin asked whether the requirement to know the Estonian language should be fulfilled in order to obtain a residence permit. The minister replied that it is not necessary to speak Estonian to apply for a residence permit. Commissioner Mikhail Stalnukhin also asked whether the fund to which the major investor invests could also be a party's treasury and whether it could be read accurately from the law. The minister replied that the fund could not be the party's treasury. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, explained that this must be an investment fund whose main investment area is Estonia. Therefore, it does not have to be an Estonian fund, but all combinations are excluded, whose main purpose is not to invest in the economy. The Minister added that it is assumed that a person will invest in the Estonian economy. No one is likely to invest a million euros to obtain a residence permit. If someone wants to receive a residence permit in Estonia or another EU country, there are many easier ways to do so. Member of the Commission Jaak Madison asked whether there was an impact analysis of how much interest the establishment of the basis for obtaining a residence permit for a large investor could give rise to business-related activities in Estonia, for example, in the next five or ten years. He also asked about the level of labour demand in the ICT sector. The Minister replied that the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Employers' Confederation have highlighted three major concerns: firstly, wages, secondly, immigration limits and thirdly, labour shortages in the ICT sector. According to statistics, the number of employees is reduced by 6000-7000 people per year who leave the labour market due to age, but probably also for other reasons. The draft offers one way to help the labour market. The Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior added that inviting foreigners to Estonia does not fully alleviate labour shortages. The Ministry has predicted that as a result of these changes, up to 100 people would come to Estonia annually to start doing business and up to 100 people to the ICT sector in particular. Siim Kiisler, Member of the Commission, stated that the draft defines a start-up entity, according to which it is a start-up entity belonging to a company registered in Estonia, which aims to develop and launch such a business model with high global growth potential, innovative and reproducible, which contributes significantly to the development of the Estonian business environment. Whether a start-up has previously been defined in Estonian law or it is the first attempt, Siim Kiisler was the question. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, replied that it was primarily planned to set up a panel of experts at the Ministry of the Interior, which would, on the one hand, include representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, on the other hand, representatives of Startup Estonia, the Association of Estonian companies and risk investors, who analyse each case on a case-by-case basis. It does not have to be an ICT sector, but the idea of a change is that any innovative idea with high growth potential would also receive public support. If this type of enterprise is defined as such, the residence permit can be obtained for business under simplified conditions or bring in workers under such conditions. It is certainly not possible to exhaustively list which company is a start-up company. The Minister added that the current Aliens Act allows for the bringing of workers here, but attempts are made to find ways to bring companies in the sectors that increase the growth potential of the economy to Estonia. The Foreign Act states the principle that we do not want low-paid workers in Estonia, but high-paid workers. In the case of start-ups, it is foreseen that they will not be subject to the salary requirement laid down in the Aliens Act. Member of the Commission Mikhail Stalnukhin noted that the Aliens Act falls within the area of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but the draft concerns the economy, investment, employment and the search for labour, so the Commission could also address the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs for an opinion on the draft. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Kalle Laanet, made a promise that their opinion would be sought from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs. Jüri Adams, Member of the Commission, stated that the Government of the Republic has initiated two draft amendments to the same law, both of which have been approved by the Government. The difference is that they enter into force one day apart. It therefore has a proposal to merge the draft before the first reading. He also felt that a reference text could be drawn up which would look like the Aliens Act after the entry into force of both draft laws. The Minister explained that the separate drafts were initiated on the basis of the recommendations of the Ministry of Justice and the Parliament that the transposition of European Union law into Estonian legislation and national amendments should be kept separate, while the drafts are treated as one package. This draft does not concern the transposition of European Union law but concerns national changes. Jüri Adams also said that he understood the need for this agreement, but he did not think it was wise in terms of the end result. Although it has been decided that these must be separate drafts, can they be merged during the procedure? President Kalle Laanet replied that it was appropriate to first read the drafts and to propose amendments. But basically, yes, it is up to the Commission to decide whether or not to merge these drafts. Member of the Commission Mikhail Stalnukhin explained that he did not support this draft, as the problems of people living in Estonia should be solved in particular. In May, the government had to provide the Economic Commission with an overview of the two ministries why they object to the fact that the majority of those persons who were born in Estonia have the right to buy a piece of land. At the same time, persons from outside Estonia who invest money here and whose background is unknown will receive all economic rights. Jüri Adams, Member of the Commission, pointed out that he was not opposed to the draft, not so much in substance as because of the unreasonable method of procedure. Following this debate, Commission President Kalle Laanet proposed to send a draft 251 to first reading by 15 June 2016 and to conclude the first reading. Kalle Laane, Mart Nutt, Andres Anvelt, Siim Kiisler, Martin Kukk and Andre Sepp voted against, and Mr Stalnukhin, Peeter Ernits, Jaak Madison and Jüri Adams abstained. The chairman, Kalle Laanet, also proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be 7 September at 4 p.m. and Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. Kalle Laanet, Mart Nutt, Andres Anvelt, Siim Kiisler, Martin Kukk, Andre Sepp, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Ernits, Jaak Madison and Jüri Adams were in favour of the proposal. It was therefore decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 June (by 6 votes to 4, with no abstentions), that the first reading be closed (by 6, with 4 abstentions) and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 16 p.m. on 7 September and that Mart Nutt (consensus decisions) as member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U297	Thank you, Mart Nutt, for a presentation that was very professional. That's probably why there are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põlluaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U298	Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister said earlier to my question whether this was a bill that added value to the Estonian economy or the creation of an immigration pump, that it was a matter of conscience. I can tell you with a clear conscience, having looked at this bill, it is a draft for creating an immigration pump and a back door. Of course, the Estonian economy needs to be boosted and added value created. At the same time, I have not seen any drafts on this table that would have dealt with bringing back nearly 100,000 people who have left abroad, how to bring these talents back home, how to create the conditions for them to find a job, obtain sufficient income, etc. so that they can create this added value. It's a rather short bill. I am going to cross some of these points in the diagonal, which raise quite a bit of doubt, precisely from the point of view of possible abuses, which the Minister was asked about several times here today, but there was no answer. For example, it is possible for an alien who has come here to pursue vocational training, professional higher education, etc., to bring his or her entire family, wife and children. Why does learning need such an opportunity? The minister replied that the aim is not just to come here to study, but to keep them in Estonia. So it's an immigration pump. When we look at getting a visa and a residence permit for start-ups and company boards, that sounds nice. At the same time, we know that Estonia is a progressive country where it is extremely easy for an e-resident to set up a company. It'll take a few minutes. It's very easy to set up a company here, put yourself as a company manager or anyone and get a residence permit here. Start-ups can be created even by conveyors in fear of being expelled. After all, this will allow a completely new business model to emerge if such companies are to be set up and then third-country nationals are to be appointed as their managers. We remember that a few years ago there was one such accident when the residence permit business gave a very high income and a great deal of all kinds of contingent came in here. It is completely incomprehensible why the existence of a registered place of residence and a real dwelling is not applicable as a condition for the granting of residence permits to spouses and families at all. I'm sorry, but anyone can come down here and live under a tree now! This is, in the opinion of the Estonian state, sufficient to have an overview and control of who lives here and where they live. Also, when we talk about working as an expert, counselor or consultant, we know these papers. Universities of higher education in many developing countries actually cost nothing. The University of Tallinn has had problems with students who have all the necessary papers and'skills' as they are, but they do not really exist. There is also a plan to increase the immigration limit. How big, how much? It's set. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U299	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U300	Thank you. The increase in the limit is not even supported by the Confederation of Trade Unions. EUR 65000 is intended as the standard for equity capital for the company, which must be purchased as real estate and accounted for as fixed assets. At the notary, you can sell your tree shed for whatever it takes, as long as it's recorded there, and it's a duty to the state. There are such very suspicious things here in a row, in a row and in a row. What I asked the Minister about is that when we talk about talent, as far as this is concerned, a provision which says that an illegally staying alien can apply for a temporary residence permit. So are illegals the talents we want to invite here? All these things are going to work, there is no doubt about it. If we open a new door to immigration, it will certainly be used in the East and West. Speaking of using it to the east, I will remind you of the last scandal of residence permits when Sergei Lalakin was granted a residence permit in Estonia, who received it officially, in accordance with the so-called 'all rules'. But who was he, Mr. Lalakin? He was the leader of one of the largest criminal organisations in the Moscow region. It had 500 members. It was a mob-grouping operation that dealt with fraud, extortion, robbery and order murders, even in the United States. Do you think that such people will not find this EUR 65000 or that they will not be able to create any business here if it opens a door for them to come here? And it can be done not only by them, but by God knows who, including the FSB agents. Creating such an opportunity is literally criminal. The Estonian Conservative People's Party cannot agree to creating such a new immigration pump. Let us do better by bringing our own people home, then creating real added value for our country and our economy. I therefore hand over the Conservative People's Party's proposal to reject the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U301	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U302	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U303	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U304	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I am saying is, on the one hand, what I should have told my groupmates in the Free Party Group. I am talking about the problems that this bill is facing. But we all have these problems, regardless of what group we belong to, so I would rather explain here. Since this and the next draft are connected, I will deal with both of them together from the very beginning. If I do not finish this issue in eight minutes, I will continue the next draft debate in the round of speeches on where my speech will be interrupted. I'll start from a long way back. When Estonia's independence was restored, the only existing version of the Official Journal was the printed version. This was always very difficult because, in the case of large laws which were long in force and which were relatively much amended, the question arose of what is the current version and who are the people who can say something about it. That was a pretty serious question. In the Ministry of Justice, there was a separate box for each of the most important longer codes, where the current version of the law was kept, and there was an official who was competent on this box. These boxes were formed so that the two printed versions of the codex were cut into pieces, put in a box with pages, and then made breaks, pulled down, or changed. Before the CC, it was the duty of all ministries of justice in the world to issue interim publications of existing texts with a certain regularity. Changes made in the meantime were usually kept on cardboard cards. That was a pretty crazy time. If anyone else has a box like that left, they could save it for the museum. I remember there was a problem in 1992 that wasn't discussed in public. Indeed, the administrative right to the code of offences, which we now refer to as wrongdoing, had been lost in a version of the code that was in force at the time. No one in Estonia knew what it was like until one day new laws came along, then more or less they got in line. This development has also taken place in the Aliens Act. It was a short law in 1993, with a few dozen paragraphs, and one of its first authors, Mart Nutt, is still among us. He's already been on the remote today, and he's gonna be here at least one more time. Over the years, this law has gone very long. At first, the main issue was the rights of people living in Estonia who were not citizens of the Republic of Estonia after the restoration of the Republic of Estonia, and the issues of these documents. To date, this issue has gone away, but there has been a huge increase in the problems of the movement and documentation of residents of other European Union Member States, as well as of other foreigners. I don't know how long the Aliens Act is now, I didn't look it up, but in those drafts I noticed that the section numbers were 300, maybe there are even more paragraphs. In the case of laws of this magnitude, it is a problem that they cannot be "humanly indulged" in their eyes and that there is quite a lot of systematic and bureaucratic work to be done with their draft amendments. We have now received two drafts, both of which have a basic text of about 15 pages and three to four times the text of the explanatory memorandum. I understand there's a file in one of the computers at the Ministry of Justice that contains the so-called 'Dream Aliens Act', a valid version with all the proposed changes. It's definitely changing. At some point, the Ministry of the Interior set up this lock and presented us with a version of their dreams. But he did so on the basis of a certain political or technical agreement, so that he divided these amendments into two drafts. One of the changes relates to the European Union Directive and the other to the political objectives of the current government. In addition, the proposals made by the Ministry of the Interior's officials to improve the ministry's work area, i.e. everything related to the issue of visas, residence permits and work permits. If such a text comes before us, as members of our Riigikogu, it is not only necessary to look at whether the political ideas proposed by the government are such as we would support, or whether there could be some kind of threat that is not currently foreseen, but we are also responsible for ensuring that all the technical changes that have been made to the draft are absolutely top-down. I'm going to finish my speech with the basic argument that the way we were given this thing can't work with it. We now have a situation where we, as members of the Riigikogu, do not have an overview of these texts and amendments, which cannot be humanely understood. The only person on whom we assume he knows all this is an advisor to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs sitting at the back of the hall, but I am not sure that he will be able to delve into those parts of the Aliens Act that will not be changed. Now there's a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U305	I'm closing the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 251. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the draft. We will vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting against the proposal by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to amend the Aliens Act, the Citizen's Act of the European Union and the Act on Identity Documents 251 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 7 against 38 members of the Riigikogu with 4 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 251 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 7 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U306	And now the first reading of the draft law 252 on the amendment of the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Hanno Pevkur, Home Secretary of the initiating waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U307	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I am pleased that I have the opportunity to present to you the amendments to the Aliens Act relating to the transposition of the directives, namely the amendments to the Directives on seasonal workers and on intra-corporate transferees. Firstly, we have a proposal in the European Union, jointly agreed, to remove the legal restrictions on short-term employment, thereby broadening the scope for short-term employment in Estonia. The current law provides for certain cases in which short-term work is permitted without a residence permit. Among other things, it is currently authorised for seasonal work on the processing of agricultural products. As a result of the change, an alien may work in different fields in Estonia for a short period of time, provided that the general requirements for registration of short-term employment are met. Secondly, short-term work is available for up to nine months a year instead of six months. Researchers, academics and top specialists are allowed to work throughout their legal stay. Thirdly, foreigners legally present in the country will be allowed to submit their application for a long-stay visa in Estonia. The maximum period allowed in the Schengen acquis, i.e. up to one year, shall also be laid down for the duration of the stay in Estonia as determined by a long-stay visa. However, in order to ensure that stays on the basis of a visa are not long-stay, the condition is that Estonia should not stay for more than two years on the basis of a long-stay visa. Fourthly, foreigners present here with a long-stay visa are allowed to extend their stay for the purpose of working in Estonia for a short period of time, but the country is normally not allowed to stay for more than nine months per year. Fifthly, the definition of seasonal work and the conditions of employment of seasonal workers in the country are laid down and a mandate rule is established for establishing a list of seasonally dependent activities. According to the feedback of the social partners, there is also a greater need for temporary labour in the agricultural sector, not only mentioned earlier, but also in the tourism, accommodation and food sector, for example. Sixthly, a sub-category of work with a residence permit, a temporary residence permit for intra-corporate transfers, and the conditions for applying for a temporary residence permit for intra-corporate transfers are established. This residence permit can be applied for by intra-corporate transferees, specialists and graduate trainees. The maximum deadline is three years for managers and professionals and up to one year for graduate trainees. It also allows Estonia to work with the residence permit of an employed person transferred from another Member State. For example, you can also work in Estonia with the residence permit of a transferred worker in Finland. Seventhly, the requirements for the remuneration of an alien working on the basis of a short-term residence permit for work in Estonia are amended by laying down the requirement for average Estonian salary instead of the current average wage multiplied by a coefficient of 1.24. Due to the requirements arising from the Directive, according to which seasonal workers and posted intra-corporate transferees must be guaranteed equal treatment with Estonian citizens in terms of working conditions, including pay, the wage requirement laid down in the current Act is amended by laying down, as I said, the requirement to pay the average wage in Estonia. The amendment was developed in 2010 and approved by the Riigikogu with regard to the seasonal workers directive, according to which Estonia supported the principle that seasonal workers have the right to equal treatment in terms of working conditions. This brings you up to date with the major amendments proposed by the draft. We support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to end the first reading of the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments, i.e. 7 September and September, to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U308	Questions for the initiator. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U309	Dear Minister, The requirement for equal treatment is absolutely right, and no one doubts that. Surely the seasonal worker must also be treated on equal terms with others. But we will pay attention to the wage bill, which was before a coefficient of 1.24 and now Estonia's average wage. Take, for example, the farm. If a seasonal worker is taken from outside, such as a strawberry picker, the average wage in Estonia must be paid to him, which is about 1100 euros gross. However, if the Estonian strawberry collector is paid a gross wage of EUR 700, is there also a requirement for equal treatment? Does an Estonian employee have the legal right to claim an equal salary with an alien worker who earns the average salary in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U310	Thank you. The Aliens Act regulates the rights of foreigners the provisions of the Aliens Act apply to workers who are not Estonian citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U311	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U312	Mr. Minister! In the committee, I asked your officials how many people could be in recent years, seasonal workers, for whom this law could have some meaning. In my opinion, they did not have any numerical knowledge of this. Someone suggested that maybe a hundred people. You don't have anything more specific to say about the size of this target group, do you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U313	Thank you. No, it's not. We tried to do some research, but there's another little catch. Indeed, a great many seasonal workers are brought to Estonia through temporary agency work, such as Latvia. This means that we cannot get a very accurate overview of who is a seasonal worker in Estonia from anywhere. And there's another reason. Indeed, right now we are allowing seasonal workers to be taken in the agricultural sector only in principle. Now we are trying to extend this area and we are giving a delegation standard, which we are saying that it is also possible to take seasonal workers in the area of accommodation, catering or tourism. So far, such people were regarded as ordinary foreign workers, even if they only came to work seasonally, for example in the field of tourism. So they had to meet all the criteria prescribed by Estonian law for an alien worker.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U314	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U315	Thank you. Good minister! I apologise for the rush I made last time, but the texts of the drafts were no longer available back there, they were taken away, and the titles of the recent drafts begin with the same words. So I don't have to repeat my question anymore, I know you have cum laude memory, I'll just come back to the end for a second. There's a question in the steinogram. How can rural businesses survive in the future if they have to pay double wages to workers in their sector? These sectors, where Estonia has average wages, are not affected, but in those sectors where the rural area is not simply free to take labour, foreigners would bankrupt companies with double wages. What can be done there? There are very many positive aspects to this draft, but there should be some compromise in the procedure. I understand that the government was not unanimous on this, and I heard your opinion in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Do you think it's possible to find a compromise during the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U316	Thank you. I'll start at the end. What the Riigikogu decides is the right and opportunity of the Riigikogu. Here the members of the government can no longer intervene in the decision-making process of the Riigikogu. In the government, we had a serious debate about what a salary claim should be. And, indeed, when we spoke with the Chamber of Commerce and the Confederation of Employers about the wage bill, there was a general view that it could be sector-specific. Statistics Estonia publishes average wages by sector and the amounts can be recovered from them. However, as a result of heated debates, we had an agreement in the government that we would lower the salary requirement to 1.0 on an average of 1.24 times the average. If you ask what is this magic wand or a recipe for entrepreneurs on the ground who need a lower wage labour force, then of course the first suggestion is to work more closely with the unemployment fund and find these opportunities, but this often does not work. Life will show whether 1.0 is relief or not. If not, we may have to come back to this debate someday. Until 7 September, members of the Riigikogu can also propose amendments to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U317	Jaak Madison's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U318	Good minister! I'm sure you and your officials and advisors have analyzed this legislative amendment at the Ministry of the Interior. I have no doubt that it may be a relief for certain entrepreneurs if seasonal workers are admitted to Estonia more easily. But there are many aspects to everything. Apart from the good things that are planned, there may be some potential dangers or negatives. What could be the risk factors for this draft? Everything that's good isn't always brilliant. Why don't you get rid of some of the points you've analyzed, which could be the 'negative sides'?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U319	Thank you. Life gives an explanation. But in the case of new laws, as in the case of existing laws, the greatest risk is the misuse of the law. Misuse of the law means that a person who comes here for work, study or any other purpose and has obtained a residence permit does not fulfil his or her obligations or does not respect the conditions of his or her residence permit. That's when what happens is what I gave the example at the previous point of the human being being being expelled. Such expulsions shall be carried out on a regular basis. Anyone who violates the conditions of the residence permit, its residence permit is cancelled and a person is expelled from the country. So the greatest risk is the misuse or violation of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U320	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U321	Thank you. The law provides that the cost of accommodation for seasonal workers brought from abroad must not be excessive or disproportionate in relation to remuneration. Where is the principle of equality here, and is it intended to be applied to Estonian residents and Estonian workers? Because the housing costs of the person receiving the minimum wage are undoubtedly excessive and far from proportionate, given his or her salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U322	Thank you. It seems to me that you are a bit wrong about what the law is. This is the Aliens Act, which regulates the stay and arrival of foreigners in Estonia. If an Estonian entrepreneur wishes to hire an Estonian employee, he or she is free to make any wage agreements. If an entrepreneur wishes to grant any additional incentives to his employees, there are opportunities to do so. Each entrepreneur should assess whether it is more reasonable for him to hire an employee from the Estonian labour market or to take an employee from abroad. When hiring a foreign worker, he must take into account the fact that he is currently required to pay 1,24 times the average salary and, in the future, if Parliament approves this draft, at least 1,0 times the average salary. These are the differences, and each undertaking itself decides on the conditions under which it employs its employees.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U323	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U324	Mr. Minister! My question is this: how are the members of the Riigikogu who question or hesitate to find answers to two questions for themselves? First of all, isn't this amendment to the law making it worse for seasonal workers and those who work for them? Secondly, what negative or undesirable effects could such a legislative amendment entail?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U325	Thank you. The answer to the first question is certain: it does not worsen. Because we are improving the opportunities for seasonal workers to work here. Firstly, we are extending sectors where seasonal workers can be used, secondly, extending their short-term stay from six months to nine months, and thirdly, as I said, we are reducing the wage bill. Things are getting better than they are now. Perfect? Probably not. Businesses certainly have a desire to move forward even more boldly. As far as the risks are concerned, I have already responded to Mr Madison that this is mainly about the misuse of the law. If a residence permit issued for even short-term work is misused, the result may be that a person becomes an illegal person in Estonia. This means that the Estonian state will have to deal with its expulsion process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U326	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U327	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Just before you came to introduce the draft laws, we argued seriously and discussed the business day as the flag day of the country. Now, looking at this bill, as well as the comments made by businesses, the Chamber of Commerce and the Association for Gardening, that the average wage that has to be paid to seasonal workers is sector-specific, please tell me where these obstacles are. Isn't there a political party in the coalition government for this? Who doesn't understand that the basis is industry-based?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U328	Thank you. I listened to this debate on the Estonian flag very thoroughly. I was excited to come and talk about entrepreneurs. I was very excited for the whole hour I waited. The debate was nice, certainly necessary and appropriate for the big hall. However, as far as the pay claim is concerned, as I said, we had different ideas in the government. There were also differences of opinion within the political parties and still do. I would argue that there are different opinions on both the side of the coalition and on the side of the opposition. There is a group that says that in order to keep the Estonian labour market and bring as high-paid workers as possible here, the introduction of an average wage must be supported. And there's another view that would be better based on the sector, because each area is different. There is also a third view, according to which the situation should be viewed not only on a sectoral basis but also on a regional basis. So there are a number of views, but in order to keep the scheme as simple as possible, we stayed at the average salary. I believe that this debate will rise again in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in preparation for second reading, and that the great hall of Parliament must finally decide what is the right choice for Estonia for the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U329	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U330	Good manager! Good minister! If the previous one was a bill of millionaires, a straightening of the Aliens Act, then it is a bill of servants of the servants of Vietnam or Ukraine. But I ask why you have arranged for Estonian servants to be in a worse position than Vietnamese or Ukrainian servants in the future, i.e. to receive less pay for the same work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U331	Thank you. I do not agree with you that this is a draft for black workers or servants. It concerns seasonal workers. There are also differences for seasonal workers in intra-corporate transfers. For example, when Elisa brings workers from Finland to Estonia, I would not like to say in any way that they are doing some kind of dirty work or servants. They may receive a very high salary, but if they move within the group, let's assume that the Ukrainian information methologist works in Elisa and Elisa sees that she should be directed to Estonia, it is normal. I don't think an information ehnologist gets a very good salary, he doesn't qualify to be low-paid in any way. If you ask, why did you say, servant, an Estonian person? I'll tell you I don't have to get any less. Depends on the employer. If the employer wishes to pay at least the average salary, he will also pay at least the average salary. It is simply the Estonian employer that must take into account that if he wishes to bring a Ukrainian worker here, for example a farm or a tourist company, he must adapt to the Estonian rules. The Estonian rules are now saying that an alien must be paid 1.24 times the average salary, in the future, as Parliament decides whether the Estonian average or sector-specific, or there is a third option. So the Estonian entrepreneur decides who he hires and what he hires for his salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U332	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U333	Thank you. We have so many young, very many students who burn eagerly to go to work. The list of all kinds of jobs will be filled as soon as they are opened. When I was mayor, we also arranged for young people to work in Saue. There were many willing ones, but the problem was that they were not to be given any decent work. Companies couldn't take them because they couldn't even do anything. They can't even clear a ski trail because they can't get their hands on a saw or an axe, even though they're doing it at home. Almost the only thing they could do was paint bus waiting pavilions with poisonous colors. Why do you not act to eliminate such totally unreasonable restrictions and to find a very large number of zealous youths who would work? Instead, you are fighting for directives and foreign seasonal workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U334	Thank you. I very much hope that you have returned to the city of Saue to the health and health protection requirements for young people when they painted bus waiting pavilions with poisonous colors. But when it comes to young people, we try to keep a line in the government so that every shoemaker stays with his own grids. As far as I know, Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, is currently working on a way to reduce restrictions. There are certainly long disputes ahead, but I believe that the debates are worth it to give Estonian young people more opportunities to learn about working life.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U335	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U336	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question also concerns this so-called average salary, precisely in the key to the fact that, at present and in the future, 1.0 gross monthly wages are paid, i.e. I actually have a question of taxes. Since, on average, we have about 125 days of short-term workers working, as we have seen from the analysis, perhaps one measure would also be if they did not, for example, pay the social tax part of the pension fund, 20% of the social tax. In fact, they certainly do not consume this pension fund or health insurance in Estonia. Have you considered or discussed how to alleviate the tax burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U337	Thank you. This issue has arisen in meetings with employers. Rather, the question has been whether or not we are sticking to a uniform tax base. Secondly, if one day a short-term worker could find the possibility to remain a long-term worker in Estonia within the same 125 days or in the future, for example, up to a maximum of nine months, he would automatically have lost his social security contributions for the whole of the previous period. It is therefore reasonable to assume that if a person works here, he will be taxed under the same rules as all other employees while working here, because he will never know if he will stay here for a long time or not. At one point, nine months can become 15 years, which means that it has acquired pension rights and long-term resident status. This, in turn, means that he may start receiving a pension, but he would have lost nine months already.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U338	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U339	Good manager! Good minister! How many of these people could be those seasonal workers who are exposed to this bill 252? If in 2015, we had 82 seasonal farm workers, what figure could come together now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U340	Thank you. Again, divination is very difficult to deal with in this hall. The wisdom behind us is much more accurate. The labour market indicators of the Statistical Office are significantly more accurate. We can guess. To make some kind of assessment, take out the number of people working in the agricultural sector, including seasonal workers. There were a little less than a hundred of them last year. In the tourism sector, I think, you can imagine more or less the same proportion. I believe that this number will remain in hundreds, depending on which sectors we count down there. As I said, it concerns the processing industry and tourism in particular. But it is certainly possible to talk about seasonal work in the service sector during the summer period. I guess this debate is still ahead, but as I said, it's more like hundreds, not thousands.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U341	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U342	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will clarify my previous question. Last year we had 1086 cases of short-term employment. Since you said that maybe some of these employees will stay here and nine months will be 15 years, have we had a lot of such cases that we have to mitigate risks in this way? What are your analysts predicting? How high is the risk that we will deprive them of their pension rights in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U343	No, I'm not saying it's a risk. It is more in the interests of people's rights, certainly not a risk. After all, it is in the state's view that when a person works, his or her work is equally taxed for the employer. The employer is clearer and easier because he has one salary calculation. In such a case, where an employer takes a seasonal worker, he should start to bear the costs and make changes to his wage accounting system so that some employees are paid only health insurance and do not pay pension insurance. So there are still hidden potential costs, which is why a uniform, simple principle of taxation has remained. If you go to work in other countries, the principles of taxation generally do not change whether you are there for a short time or not. After all, you can still come to the country of Estonia to work, without short-term workers or the seasonal workers directive, and be here for example only six months. Then you will still be subject to exactly the same rules as you work, then your salary will be deducted from social tax, income tax and unemployment insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U344	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still coming back to putting the students, the kids into work. You said the debates were going over it, but they've been going on for years. Don't you think things are going to work out too slowly? Soon the summer will be over, and by this summer everything will be unsolved again, we will arrive at the next spring, perhaps even then the debates have not yet been completed. We should be able to resolve these things more quickly when children are put into work. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U346	Thank you. I don't really want to climb into another colleague's cabbage garden. My colleague Ossinovski is working on it, as I said. And I think that if you want a more accurate review, the easiest way is to invite my colleague Ossinovski to this remote control. Then, either in Question Time or in the form of an inquiry, he explains how far he is at this point and what his plans and ideas are specifically for young people. If they are not satisfied, it is always possible for a member of the Riigikogu to initiate the draft itself and hope that at least the majority of the members of the Riigikogu will support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U347	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U348	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have just said that you do not want to go to another minister's field, but I think we already have a rather mixed area here. The Free Party Group recently submitted one draft decision, the content of which was to facilitate part-time work, but the Riigikogu did not forward it to the government. Perhaps it would have been appropriate to send, however, because this whole issue of seasonal work and taxes certainly also concerns part-time work. Should this not be discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in part in the Committee on Economic Affairs? It has now remained an area of the Minister of the Interior and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U349	Thank you. Firstly, since this bill regulates foreign affairs, it has moved to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, just as tradition has been in the Riigikogu and the Bureau has held it right. Secondly, as far as the opinion on the draft is concerned, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has agreed that it will also send it to the Committee on Economic Affairs and to the Committee on Social Affairs. That's right, we're gonna have to point it out. I think that the three Commissions should also hold a joint session. The Committee on Monetary Affairs may also be joined if necessary. The more widely supported the draft is the result of debate at committee level, the better it will be in this Chamber at third reading, in the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U350	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U351	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Here is such an interesting paragraph that led to the thought of "Variable residence permit for intra-corporate transfer', § 19014. A temporary residence permit for intra-corporate transfer is a residence permit for employment granted to an alien who is transferred internally to Estonia from a company located outside the European Union for the purpose of working or internship. So someone makes a fictitious company and brings here any kind of company from a fictitious company made in Nigeria, for example, or how to understand it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U352	I still wonder about your ability to generate such absurd examples. I have just given my example to my colleague Ernitsa that Elisa has hired an IT specialist from Ukraine and wishes to direct her to Estonia for a certain period of time, in the short term. It is certainly possible to conceive of madness, but there are control measures for it and there is also the possibility to cancel the residence permit. If there is also a move from a third country to Estonia within the company, we will not lose our supervisory or supervisory powers. If the permit is fictitious, this means that the residence permit will be revoked and the person will be expelled from Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U353	Thank you, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur! The Commission's waitress is Mart Nutt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U354	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft was also discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its regular meeting on 7 June. In addition to the members of the committee, Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, Ruth Annus, Head of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, and the two advisors of the same department, Killu Christine Vantsi and Harry Kattai, were invited to this debate. The Minister gave, as is customary in the Commission's meetings, an overview of this draft law. The presentation by the Minister and the advisers was followed by a debate involving members of the Commission. I will highlight some of the most important aspects of this. Member of the Commission Mikhail Stalnukhin noted that the average wage in Estonia is calculated in two ways: firstly, the average wage calculated by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, secondly, the average wage published by Statistics Estonia, which is usually 30% higher than the real average wage. He asked me what the average salary was in the bill. The Minister of the Interior replied that the draft was based on the average salary of Statistics Estonia, as the Tax and Customs Board is talking about the median wage, which is the average of the upper and lower salaries of all employees. The average salary of Statistics Estonia is the gross remuneration of all employees divided by the number of employees. Mikhail Stalnukhin also recommended reading about this topic in an article by the President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, since 2002. Mart Nutt, Member of the Commission, asked that if a person is not satisfied with the decision on the extension of his or her visa in Estonia, whether he or she would have the right to apply to the court to challenge it or whether the rule that the decision granting the visa was a sovereign decision of a state that could not be challenged by the court. The Minister of the Interior replied that the visa procedure would not change with the draft and that it would not be possible to appeal against the decision not to issue the visa. Mart Nutt also asked whether the draft wanted to change the concept that Estonia was open to skilled workers only to a very limited extent. The Minister replied that this concept was not intended to be changed. Jüri Adams, Member of the Commission, then asked if anyone could tell us how many foreigners are currently attending seasonal work in Estonia and whether there are any trends and whether they are changing. Ruth Annus from the Ministry of the Interior replied that this is a situation that Estonian law does not deal with at all. Currently, only highly qualified workers can register short-term employment in Estonia, in addition to a very small sector involved in agricultural work. It is difficult to say how much people will be paid average wages for seasonal work to come to Estonia in the future. Member of the Commission Peeter Ernits asked why the draft would enter into force earlier than the Aliens Act on the previous agenda item of the Commission. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, replied that, since two drafts were drawn up at different times, two drafts of the same regulation, one of which would enter into force on 30 September including 1 October inclusive, would not be included in certain provisions. The Ministry of Justice discussed the possibility of merging these drafts in order to make them easier to read, but the Ministry stated that they could not enter into force on the same day, as this would be technically difficult for the State Gazette. Member of the Commission Peeter Ernits also asked what it is like with foreign seasonal workers in the neighbouring countries of Estonia in Finland and Sweden, which trends are there. From the Minister of the Interior's reply, we learned that there are no restrictions on seasonal workers in Finland that he knows and that there are very many seasonal workers from Russia. Member of the Commission Jaak Madison asked how much the implementation of the draft will actually cost the state. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, replied that IT innovations of around EUR 170000 were needed to adopt the draft as a law. Jaak Madison also asked for clarification on what would happen if Estonia did not transpose these directives in time. The answer from the Minister for the Interior was that once the directive was adopted in the European Union, Estonia must also adopt it. If the directive is not transposed, infringement proceedings will be followed, which may last very long. Estonia may challenge this, but the result of the infringement procedure is a fine. Jaak Madison was also interested in whether the draft would change the political paradigm, if only a highly qualified workforce had been able to be accepted so far, then the changes would result in the labour market in Estonia being more easily admitted to a lower-paid and less skilled workforce. It is also incomprehensible why a directive aimed at reducing overall labour shortages in the Member States of the European Union is mandatory for Estonia, where the labour market situation may not be the same as in the European Union on average. The Minister of the Interior stressed that the requirement to pay the average salary to foreign seasonal workers remains valid, which is a very high requirement, and consent from the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund is also necessary. Thus, the changes planned by the draft do not mean mass immigration to Estonia. And in the form of a directive, the countries of the European Union have agreed that, as the labour market is free in the Union, the same standard could also apply to seasonal work across the European Union. The debate was followed by procedural decisions on a proposal from the chairman of the committee, Kalle Laanet. First, it was proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 15 June 2016 with 6 votes in favour and 3 votes against, with no abstentions. I will, however, also read who voted. Kalle Laane, Mart Nutt, Andres Anvelt, Siim Kiisler, Martin Kukk and Andre Sepp were in favour of the proposal and against Peeter Ernits, Jaak Madison and Jüri Adams. Secondly, it was proposed that the first reading be closed, with 6 votes in favour and 3 against, with no abstentions. The same voters voted in the same way as in the previous proposal. The following two proposals were made by consensus. The deadline for the amendments was 7 September at 4 p.m. and Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U355	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U356	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I understood one of your lines that some kind of information system might go crazy when two laws governing the same field enter into force on the same day. Let me get this straight, and do we really have to do something like this? However, could the Committee on Constitutional Affairs not be so nice and combine these two drafts before bringing them to second reading? Then we wouldn't go crazy here either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U357	Thank you. I'll start at the end. If the Commission comes up with a proposal to this effect and a majority of the Commission supports it, these drafts will be merged. I cannot make a promise now on behalf of all the Members of the Commission, because they may not listen to my position. But the information system was not further explained as to whether or not the information system would be confused, apparently there was not enough interest in the details. Surely this cannot be a precept. The Commission is, of course, entitled to take a decision which is approved by the majority of its members. If the information system goes crazy, what can I do? However, in this case, the Commission considered that there was no point in plucking on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U358	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U359	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a question about the so-called athletic interest. I should have asked the government representative as the initiator of the bill, but maybe you can answer. Will those athletes who are brought to our teams for the competition season, such as football, basketball, volleyball and handball teams, qualify as foreign seasonal workers, and will they be subject to the same requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U360	The most formal answer is that this was not discussed by the Commission. But I would like to make a comparison here that gladiators and athletes do not go into one category, because some were slaves and others were free people. I think, though maybe I'm wrong, no.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U361	No further questions. Thank you, Mart Nutt! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U362	Mr President of the sitting! I'll pick up where I left off. The Law on Foreigners is one of the mammoth laws that apply in Estonia. And the length of this text is supposed to be, I didn't look at it for at least a hundred pages in the meantime. Two amendments amend at least 10% of the text of the law. For example, a typical change offered to us in these drafts as a basis for work sounds like this, I take a very vivid quote from page 8: 'The text of paragraph 1091 is considered to be paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 is supplemented by the following wording: 'Section 1 of this section shall not apply during the examination of an alien's application if an alien applies for an extension of stay pursuant to paragraph 41 of this § 67 or a long-stay visa pursuant to § 911 of this Act. 'This kind of wordingal beauty is about 30 pages in these drafts. Not one person is able to understand what they say purely from common sense; first we must turn to the whole texts that exist. And here's where the big problem starts. When 12 years ago I had the same problem with long laws, I usually made my own reference texts: the text of the current law and the text proposed, printed in two columns on the same page. This was in itself a very convenient way to compare texts as a whole. I did not succeed at the moment, because at least we have Word, the text editor used in the Riigikogu, I do not know whether I did not know what it was or what it was about to do no longer allow this text to be placed in columns, although it would be faster. Worse thing is, when I tried to explain this idea to the staff of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it was like talking a fairy tale. No one had ever heard of anyone demanding something so laborious and unusual. I think there's some progress, though. I asked for it from the people of the Home Office, and I've got a file, but I couldn't look at it by now. Perhaps there is everything there and the current computer, the text editor allows you to present text in different colors, for example, so you can see amendments to one draft and another. Because the problem is, first of all, how the amendments to the two drafts affect each other. Can't be based on the assumption that it doesn't affect anything. Secondly, what meaning do they have in conjunction with the text of the law which remains unchanged. Someone has to answer that. With the tools we now have, no one will be able to get into it. Perhaps the worst problem is that we are responsible, not the people who prepared the draft. It is not the Government of the Republic that is responsible for the end result, but we are responsible. If one of the texts is changed either way or in a way, then perhaps nothing changes with regard to the positive effects of the law, but the possible negative effects of the law can be enormous. We're responsible for making the laws okay. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U363	An extra three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U364	Now that we are now offered to have one text of the Aliens Act in force in Estonia on 29 September, the second text from 29 September at 00 will be valid and the third text from 1 October at 00 will be valid, then in the computer age and in the case of the electronic State Gazette it will be totally okay. There is no problem with that. But from the point of view of our work, i.e. the comparison of content and quality, this is very important. And I would still agitize the unification of texts, the whole text, and also the work, especially on that. You see, for all of us here, we are 101 members, committees and groups, the primary task is to propose amendments to these drafts as best we can. However, on the basis of these texts, none of us can make any sensible amendments. We must first be able to bring things into a suitable form and then come back to it. There's a question I was talking about in a free microphone on Monday. In fact, apart from everything else, it is customary in the Riigikogu to stop practicing interruptions of second reading. I have a feeling that, in the case of these drafts, where there is a problem of interaction between so many texts and several areas, it may be necessary to go to this issue as well. What is the alternative? The alternative is what we know and the entire Estonian people know. If the Riigikogu has become a rubber stamp, how to get out of this stigmatizing nickname. We have no other option if we have to fight not only for the quality of the objectives, but also for the quality of the details and the quality of the individual texts. This, however, is far more complicated than the "passing fast" practice, which we are also being offered this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U365	Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U366	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot, of course, agree with this legislative amendment. Not that we want to help Estonian entrepreneurs, to ease their ability to cope with seasonal work and increased demand. Rather, the problem is that we would understand the need for a draft if the initiative came from either a ministry or a political group in the Riigikogu and was not yet another obligation to transpose any directive. We are trying to explain from this remote control why some change is good, necessary, noble and nice and why it must definitely be turned into a law. Therefore, a European directive which, if not adopted, would launch infringement proceedings, which would end with some amount of fines, should make our labour market situation considerably better and make life easier for the company. This is a completely schizophrenic situation! It is absurd when the directive regulates our labour market. On this point, I see no reason why we should agree or be satisfied with it. The second thing is that we have so far talked over the years, rather than we have talked, but we have been constantly told that we accept and need highly qualified professionals, skilled workers in particular. Now that we hear the rhetoric that this is a question of the future debate in this Chamber, should we bring the coefficient even lower? If so far they had to pay at least 1.24 Estonian average gross wages, then in the case of seasonal workers who can stay here up to nine months, Estonia's summer is short, and nine months of seasonal work does not last, we will take the coefficient to 1.0. And if the Minister gives such a guideline that this is perhaps the subject of a new debate in this Chamber in the near future, where we should debate what the coefficient for an alien should be for the salary he is paid, I think this is already a precedent, because some directive gives rise to an obligation to accept cheaper labour, even seasonal workers for a period of nine months. All of this leads us to see no reason why we should accept this bill. We will therefore hand over a rejection proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-15_U367	There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to conclude the first reading of draft 252, but the proposal of the Conservative People's Party Group is to reject it at first reading. Let's vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft law amending the Aliens Act and related amendments to other laws at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 12 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 34 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The first reading of Bill 252 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 7 September. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow! Good luck, Mihkel Raud! Closure of the sitting at 19.12.
