ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, let's begin Question Time. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 50 members of the Riigikogu. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, today Prime Minister, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs. We hope that the Minister for Rural Affairs will have good health in order to participate in Question Time. Since yesterday, 12 members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask questions, I will give you one additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U2	The first question is for Mr Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, in the role of Prime Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U3	Honourable President! A respected minister in the duties of Prime Minister! Yesterday, the National Audit Office introduced the last audit of the readiness to receive refugees. The National Audit Office drew attention to the lack of cooperation between ministries. The main recommendation of the audit is to develop a long-term policy on persons in need of international protection in particular. The Ministry of the Interior has responded to this proposal of the National Audit Office in the negative, saying that there is no such need. Do you think it would be possible and necessary to strengthen the cooperation of ministries on this issue? Should there be a principal ministry to deal with this issue, and do we need such a policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U4	Honourable questioner! Certainly many of the comments made by the Auditor General are relevant. The government takes them as respectful and seriously as ever. We will continue to analyse these proposals and, if necessary, we will organise the government's activities even better than we have done so far. However, it must be said that during this little less than a year, when the government has more seriously dealt with the issues of refugees, the reception of war refugees and the integration of Estonia into society as a result of the European crisis and the corresponding decisions taken at European level, our country's readiness has grown exponentially. It is true that, according to international agreements, Estonia has dealt with asylum applications in the past and provided people with asylum and necessary services, but to such a small extent that the overall system and preparedness did not develop. I dare say, however, that, now that we have an appropriate coordination body, the representatives of all the relevant ministries are constantly at the table, they are communicating and coordinating their activities, when very thorough work has been done with organisations in the third sector that deal with refugees and local authorities, the Estonian state is ready to receive refugees. All ministries have planned their activities. True, a lot of things are still in work, but readiness is certainly better. There is therefore no reason to fear that Estonia will face a social or other disaster due to some sort of administrative failure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U5	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U6	Thank you for your answer. I am sorry that my supplementary question is going a little sideways from the audit, but it also concerns cooperation within the government. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas said on Friday on the Vikerraadio show that he has a good economic promotion plan for Estonia, but it would take an hour or two to introduce it thoroughly and the limited volume of the programme does not allow it. Has Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas introduced this plan to his colleagues and does the Government of the Republic suddenly not need time from the Riigikogu to present it here to members of the Riigikogu in the context of the debate on a matter of national importance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U7	Thank you. This really goes very far beyond the scope of the question, and the addressee of the question is not quite right either. The Prime Minister certainly has ideas about both the economy and other areas. With regard to the comprehensive plan, which he has then heard has been discussed on the radio, the members of the Cabinet have not been further informed so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U8	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U9	Thank you. Honourable performer! Since there is no Prime Minister, I will ask you about refugees. The Estonian press has no more popular topic in recent times than refugees. Now I understand that the government has not dealt with this issue at all when the National Audit Office says that everything has not been done. So what does the government do? The economy is not developing, education is not developing, I do not see that people's incomes have also increased in any way. What will the government do if it has not been able to address even the refugee issue, which is now issue 1?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U10	Thank you. However, while remaining in the question-answer format of Question Time, I must say, as in my first reply, that the government has discussed very thoroughly matters relating to the reception of war refugees. Authorities, including ministries, have done a great job. In the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, this concerns social protection issues, as well as labour issues, so that people can get into employment. It also concerns the health sector and there is already a clear plan on the part of our health system. The Ministry of Education has dealt with the integration of people into the Estonian education system. On 8 October, the government also presented a specific action plan, in which, indeed, some parts are still open, because the government had to prepare this plan at a rather rapid pace. Not everything has been completed, but the activities are ongoing. In fact, the National Audit Office also said that at several points the readiness is very good and most of the points are operational, but have not yet been completed. With regard, for example, to the training of supporters, this is a work in progress. The Ministry of the Interior is training more officials who can handle the reception of war refugees. So there is a plan, there is an action, Estonia is ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U12	The next question is the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U13	Good chairman of the sitting! Minister for Rural Affairs! The African plague of pigs continues to flourish in Estonia. As a minister, you've been looking for the guilty. During the summer it was Vireen leader Persidski; now Ago Pärtel, former Director General of the Veterinary and Food Board, has been added to this list. However, people believe that instead of officials, the former Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar and current ministers Kruuse and Pomerants could take responsibility. Is it really only the fault of Ago Pärtel to distort the use of a mobile burner and make false statements, or have you found during the investigation that Ago Pärt has increased the spread of pig plague in Estonia by acting or not doing so?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U14	Thank you, honourable member of the Riigikogu. As Minister for Rural Affairs, I certainly have not been looking for the guilty. The decisions made about Persidski and Ago Pärtel are a logical consequence of the way they have behaved before the Estonian people. If you consider it extremely unimportant that the public is being lied to, counterfeited storage programmes and said one thing and done another, then I dare say that the top officials of the Estonian state, the top executives of the Estonian state companies, cannot afford to behave like this. Because if we go so loosely, there's only a few steps to the next dangerous soil.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U15	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Rural Affairs! In support of former VTA Director General Ago Pärtel, at least two letters of support were sent to you, one from the 14 head of the veterinary centre and the other from the VTA's own officials. But life was different, and today you have released Pärtel from office. The competition for the new Director General of the Food and Veterinary Office has also been announced today. Recently, there has been increasing speculation about the fact that you actually released Pärtel in order to find a job for a reform party. Can you publicly confirm in this Chamber that the next VTA director will not come from the Reform Party and never belong to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U17	Thank you. About that, I'd say the Lord's Zoo is amazing. Those stories that people try to spread about one thing or another still come up with. I hope that the rumors of harassing a honourable member of the Riigikogu and wishing to leave this important role may not be equally true. But in fact, there is an honorable commission in Estonia that chooses top executives. And when this committee has done its job, it means that the best one has been chosen. I dare say that all the stories that appear in Midweek do not deserve to be discussed in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U18	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In addition to the steps that you have already taken to answer my colleague's questions, have any conclusions yet been drawn? A great deal has been said that the swine plague came to Estonia unexpectedly. Indeed, many mistakes have been made, including by the Ministry. You must have admitted that, too. What conclusions have you drawn from this, and what will you do now in a different way, if there may be a plague again in the spring?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U20	Thank you. If we look at the preparation for the control of African swine fever on the territory of the Republic of Estonia, the most important basic document is the eradication plan agreed between the three Baltic States and Poland. It has also been used as a starting point. In the short time that I have been in the ministerial office, I have changed the so-called biosecurity requirements twice in a relatively short time in order to further increase the level of preparedness. The mental readiness of people was certainly not exactly what it could have been. This African swine plague seemed to be a long way off. If we look at what we have done now in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister for the Environment, one of the important measures is certainly to reduce the population of wild boars, to minimise their so-called concentration in forests. This should reduce the possibility of breaking through the barn of bio-barriers in the future. We cannot miss the fact that the African swine plague still reaches the barn through the so-called bio-barriers of pig farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U22	The next question is to the Minister for Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U23	Dear Chairman, Minister, thank you very much. In November last year, when you answered the question about health centres' projects, I asked about the future of family medicine centres in remote rural areas. I quote very briefly a few sentences: 'We are in no way restricting the family doctors who currently carry out their services in smaller municipalities. They can continue to do so, there is no question of that. ' But now we are faced with the fact that as of 1 January, the family doctor center was abolished in two areas of South Estonia, Varstus and Cirgulina. And as far as I know, neither the parish, the county government, nor your ministry have taken any action since 1 January. How do we get on with these family medical centers, what about this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U24	Thank you. My answer must be seen in the context of the investment measure of health centres or family medicine centres in the mouth of the people. Indeed, last time, you asked whether, in setting up new health centres with the help of the State and the European Union, smaller municipalities or general practitioners could not apply for funding from this measure. This is true because the aim is to set up larger and stronger health centres and also to promote the concentration of family doctors. At the same time, this does not preclude the practice of family doctors that are currently working from being able to continue working. However, they will not receive support from European Union funds if they do not meet certain requirements. So these two things aren't related. However, it is true that in smaller rural areas, we have a serious problem with family doctors. The average age of family doctors is growing rapidly and young family doctors do not want to work in smaller places, despite the measures taken by the state, such as starting the doctor's allowance, etc. The question here is certainly how municipalities will be able to ensure access to family medical care in smaller places in the future. The Health Board, which deals more directly with the supervision and organisation of the family medical system, looks for ways to organise the reception of family doctors in smaller places. This is one of the priority axes that we would also like to develop when the Health Centres programme is launched. If there is no family doctor on the spot, the family doctor at the county centre could, even for a few days a week, be accepted in smaller places to ensure that people are provided with medical care. So the root of the problem is, in fact, the lack of people in small places and the unwillingness of family doctors to go to work there. But that is what we are dealing with separately, it is not directly related to the health centre measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U25	Thank you, Minister. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U26	Thank you. I think it also has to do with the fact that, as we know, the most popular subject for medical graduates is Finnish. But I want to ask you if your ministry and government are going to take any other measures to resolve the issue of family medicine in counties where there is a shortage of doctors.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U27	Yeah, it's planned. The association of family doctors and I have discussed this issue several times, and there are some ideas that could be piloted in the coming years. One concrete proposal from the family doctor's association is as follows. Right now, when a family doctor gets a list, he basically works on that list as long as he wants. But at one point he says he's retiring now. And then there's this hole in the family doctor, he's gone, and the list's gone. In order to avoid this hole, we have discussed the possibility of testing the smooth transition from an existing family doctor to a new doctor. An existing family doctor would take on a new, younger family doctor in the sense of'mentoring practice' and gradually hand over his list to him. When an older family doctor retires or stops working as a family doctor, the new family doctor can start from the same place immediately. We are working on this programme, and I hope it will help in the future. As far as specific municipalities are concerned, I cannot tell you by heart what are the reasons why a family doctor has finished his work in one municipality or another. But I will be happy to answer you if you ask specific questions in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U28	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U29	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, We have asked a question about Varstu and Cirguline in the form of an inquiry. Is it true, though, that there are already 25 family medical centres in Estonia where the doctor cannot be recruited? As I recall, there is such a point in the programme of the government coalition that jobs will be created in rural areas and the countryside will somehow be promoted. Is that how this promotion works? It works the other way around. If there's no doctor in the area, I'm asking why people should still be working there. When will Cirgulin and the Shadow become a family doctor?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U30	Thank you. Once again, when it comes to specific municipalities, I am happy to reply in writing about them. But if there are 25 such centers, I can't tell you that by heart. But yes, there are people in Estonia who do not have a family doctor today. In these cases temporary flexible solutions have been found. Looking for ways for one family doctor to replace another to go from one county to another or from one city to the country to provide this service. This, of course, is not a sustainable solution in the long term. The whole point of primary care or family doctor level is that a family doctor must have good contact with his patients; he must monitor them; he must really know the family, the people he works with. It is truly worrying for us that there are already lists for which there are no family doctors. And when we look at the average age of family doctors, it is precisely in many rural areas that the situation is moving in the direction that even more problems arise in the future by covering lists. There is nothing to do, young family doctors who graduate from school, like young teachers and many other professionals, tend to prefer larger cities when starting their careers. The measures taken so far to channel them into rural areas have also not been effective enough. Now you can come back to this same health center establishment program. One idea is to combine smaller practices with larger ones, precisely to ensure access to health care in smaller places, access to family doctors. If the doctor does not have a full load at a smaller place, he could, for example, get most of the load from working as a family doctor at the county centre and, at the same time, cover the lists of smaller municipalities. This work is very active, and in the coming years we will certainly have signs of improvement here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U32	The next question is the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The legal confusion that has arisen in the implementation of the Cohabitation Act is also linked to the inactivity of the Ministry of Justice and the Minister. Well, you guys have been passive, but actually, I quite enjoyed the answers you gave two days ago in this empty hall in response to an inquiry. I will now bring these same questions to you in a slightly more exciting auditorium in a shorter format. How do you assess the legal arrangements relating to the implementation of the Cohabitation Act, but the Implementing Act does not apply? What is legal clarity if (a) the implementing law is adopted, (b) the law on couples is passed, or (c) the law on partnership is abolished.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U34	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The government, including the Ministry of Justice, has a responsibility to implement the laws in force. In the case of the Cohabitation Act, it has been discussed whether Parliament's proceedings are also implementing rules in technical terms. According to Parliament's own code of good legislative practice and regulation, in technical terms, it is not implementing acts, but essentially independent legal relations. We can talk about the so-called Cohabitation Act 1 and the Cohabitation Act 2. As regards the legal situation that has arisen, my recommendation to Parliament was that Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs should link, until the political will is established, between the very different political choices that Parliament has before it in regulating these matters with the entry into force of the so-called implementing law of the Cohabitation Act itself. Regrettably, this was not done. Indeed, it must be acknowledged that, also with regard to this draft law, which defines one political choice, Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs, according to my data, took the consensus, without any vote against, that Parliament's plenary would not regulate these relations in the old year, but, as a result of an informed political choice, this year's number would be retained. With regard to the legal situation that has now arisen, Parliament is, in principle, in a position to regulate these relations, both through the said Cohabitation Act, the repeal of the Cohabitation Act and the enforcement of the so-called Implementation Act of the Cohabitation Act. However, in the interests of legal clarity, it is certainly reasonable to make these decisions without delay. And if one or the other road is chosen, which is different from the model of the law implementing the Cohabitation Act, it is certainly reasonable to provide for implementing rules. This would provide a clear answer to the legal relationships that have been realised in the case of already concluded partnership agreements, from 1 January until the entry into force of any new legal relationships.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U35	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U36	Thank you. Time was short, but I thank you for this very concentrated response. However, what steps does the government coalition plan to take in order to put order in the current confusion, and what are the positions of the coalition's parties here? Why do you think there has not been such an initiative to regulate complex legal issues in order to bring together the Riigikogu Round Table?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U37	Thank you. As Minister of Justice, I cannot say that I accept or tolerate this unclear legal situation that has arisen. However, the reason for this indiscreet situation, which must be stated clearly, is not the lack of legal competence of the legislator or anyone else, but political uncertainty on this issue. Therefore, I certainly consider it necessary to look for a common cross-party role in resolving this issue and making choices. That is the point I expressed when I answered the question on Monday. We must not treat society so inferiorly that, in the case of an institution such as family, people, civil law relations concerning the whole of society, choices, ideological choices will depend on a few votes by Parliament or its abstention. We must respect society and these legal institutions, and it is therefore reasonable to seek this common part without delay. Political forces both in this Chamber and in the government have different views on how to regulate these legal relationships, and there is nothing unnatural about such fundamental choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U38	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U39	Minister, thank you for your answers. I come back to the same subject that I touched on Monday when you were answering questions. At the time, you could not answer, and I also understand why you could not answer that question. Have you now been able to clarify the statements made by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, which very well represent legal confusion? The Chancellor of Justice has based himself on the fact that the Cohabitation Act has entered into force on 1 January, and he considers that an illegal situation has arisen in which an alien who concludes the contract cannot obtain a permanent residence permit in Estonia, unlike a married person. However, both I and you have been of the opinion that the law on partnership will only enter into force with implementing legislation, i.e. probably never, and therefore there can be no constitutional situation. Perhaps you can explain and confirm that the Chancellor of Justice is mistaken in his claims.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U40	Thank you. As I have said many times, my position on cohabitation law is indeed that the law on cohabitation applies to the extent that persons can conclude a partnership agreement. The relationship between individuals and public authorities has in fact not been enforced. These ideal choices have not been made, and that is why this undisputed situation has arrived. As far as the Chancellor of Justice is concerned, as I said on Monday, this issue must be based on the fact and the fact that countries have the right to define the family themselves and, in this respect, the rights associated with family mergers, also under the European Union's rules of law. It is a question of political choice, ideological choice and Parliament, the legislator is free to make this choice within the framework of the so-called implementation law of the Cohabitation Act or to choose different solutions. With the Chancellor of Justice, I agree that the situation is unclear. Whether to start assigning these subjective rights to the subjective rights provided for in or envisaged in the Cohabitation Act 2 through the constitution of the Constitutional Disadvantage Act 1, I do not intend to give a universal 'yes' answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U42	Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski's Prime Minister is now answering Kadri Samson's question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U43	Thank you. Dear Jevgeni Ossinovski! My question is to you because you are in the prime minister's office today. Ida-Viru County is facing a new big lay-off and oil shale companies are going through difficult times. In addition to low oil prices, they are also subject to high resource charges. The large concentration of VKG has once again brought to attention the plan that oil shale's resource fee could be linked to oil prices. It's not a new idea. This was last discussed in 2012, when the Ministry of Finance officials were working on this plan, but then it stopped. Can you tell us why it is not so far, i.e. the binding of oil shale's resource charge over the last four years, at the price of oil?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U44	Thank you. The labour market situation in Ida-Virumaa has indeed been worrying about the difficulties faced by the oil shale sector and has moved towards a negative scenario over the past year. This is why, of course, the government must consider very carefully how to strike a balance between environmental protection and social and economic security and livelihood. However, in such a situation, a temporary step should perhaps be taken towards a slightly less stringent environmental requirement in order to really save jobs and help companies that are in difficulty. Apart from the oil shale resource fee, which currently amounts to EUR 1.58 per tonne, it cannot be considered to be an overly high remuneration, these companies also pay a large number of other environmental charges, whether it is a waste charge, a special water charge or an atmospheric charge for the treatment of oil shale. In total, the oil shale sector's contribution to environmental charges in Estonia is about 75% and in 2015 it was about 75 million euros. It is clear that, in a situation where the price of oil is unprecedentedly low and the operation of companies is difficult, they bring people together, they tighten up their production, the state must change its system. The transition to oil price-based taxation, as you rightly pointed out, has been considered for a very long time. It has been in a number of coalition agreements, and the Minister of Finance is currently planning to come up with it by 2017. The meeting of the Government Office on Monday agreed that the initial proposals would be presented in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U45	Thank you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U46	Thank you. Dear Minister of Labour, In Ida-Virumaa the unemployment rate is more than twice as high as the average in Estonia. And the oil shale industry is obviously an important employer there. The international consultancy firm Ernst & Young already analysed the development scenarios of the Estonian oil shale industry in 2014 and it turned out that the annual mechanical increase of environmental taxes in Estonia is a major obstacle to the modernisation of the entire oil shale industry. Cases have also been brought to the attention of the Court of Justice to the fact that the environmental taxes notified for a short period of time create an excessive risk which hampers investment. Why has the government so far failed to draw any conclusions from this analysis? As you yourself mentioned, this topic was only put into the 2017 work programme. Now that the consequences are being addressed, what can be done to prevent further redundancies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U47	Thank you. This is an extremely fundamental change in the logic of taxation. After all, Estonia has based itself on the polluter pays principle. This means that we really tax the resource, its excavation, treatment, incineration, and the environmental impact it entails. The aim is for companies to be able to make the most of the resource, to use it in a sustainable way. I think that's basically the right logic. As far as oil price taxation is concerned, it actually only extends to oil shale oil. There is its logic, but it goes a little against the general principle of environmental protection. I think that is a reasonable idea in itself, and there has been an agreement on that. However, it is not easy to switch to this system, and as a result, the Ministry of Finance has ordered, to my knowledge, outside the Ministry's analysis, that the various options for consideration be on the table and that we really can reach a system that is both legally and essentially waterproof. In a situation where the price of oil has, in essence, fallen unprecedentedly over the last year, which no one could foresee in any way, we cannot, of course, now wait, simply because of the work plan, that, well, what is there then, we wait another year, as long as the analysis is carried out. Faster solutions are needed and faster solutions are actively being developed. One question is how quickly it is possible to enforce the so-called oil price-based taxation, but the second question is that we may need to offer some relief in the case of environmental charges on a temporary basis, also in the case of other environmental charges, in order to avoid a worse social situation, including in terms of jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U48	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U49	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. In addition to the news about the head of the PPP, one of the main news reports of yesterday's day was that Eesti Energia wrote down 66 million euros at a time, which is also related to the price of oil shale. The total project was 51 million out of the Utah project and 40 million out of 636 million in the Auvere power plant have been decommissioned. Here's my question. The amount of write-off would have been much higher, even in hundreds of millions, but the price had to be that, for example, Estonian forest would be burned in the boilers of the power plant. Is that true? Is it also true that the Government of the Republic will provide additional financial support to Eesti Energia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U50	Thank you. It is true that the state has taken steps in the past to improve the oil shale sector. Last summer, Parliament adopted a legislative amendment which eased the requirements for oil shale mining. If so far it was clearly written that the volume is 20 million tonnes per year, then now it is given as a multi-year average. This was planned as a relief for oil shale processors in Ida-Virumaa, in particular VKG. Unfortunately, the continued very rapid fall in oil prices here did not provide sufficient relief. In this context, of course, Eesti Energia has also come into a more difficult economic situation. As far as the Auvere station is concerned, I am sure that you know my position on the feasibility or the ineffectiveness of its construction. I was quite convinced that the asset write-down would be achieved at one point anyway, given the low electricity prices in the open electricity market. But the government decided indeed last week, in the context of statistics trade, in the context of the so-called quota trade, to allow Eesti Energia to burn a limited amount of biomass in order to obtain additional finance from other countries, which will certainly improve the economic performance of Eesti Energia, their sustainability and also keep jobs. But I do want to stress a few things. Firstly, the burning of biomass is not financed this time, unlike last time, from the consumer tariff, so that the people of Estonia will not pay a single cent for it. Secondly, a safeguard mechanism has also been established that allows us to verify precisely, for each transaction, that the prices of timber do not go unreasonably high, leading to a rise in the price of heat in Estonia. That's definitely what the government wants to avoid. But this bill can still be dealt with quite thoroughly by the Riigikogu in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U52	A question for the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, asks Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U53	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. We also made an inquiry on this subject, but somehow the Speaker of the Riigikogu did not communicate it to you. The inquiry concerned Oleg Ossinovski's business in Latvia and Russia, his direct involvement with the Kremlin oligarchs of the joint Swiss business, his contributions to the Social Democratic Party and the involvement of Jevgeni Ossinovski, Chairman of the Social Democratic Party and member of the government, in his father's business. We have these questions now. Do the Estonian law enforcement authorities have an overview of these corruption links and possible risks to Estonian security? Is there any plan to mitigate these security risks? How do you assess whether there is a risk that a large financier who is involved in the Kremlin and whose son is a member of our government and is involved in these businesses somehow poses a risk to the constitutional order of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U54	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I answer basically from the perspective of how the law enforcement and security authorities of the Republic of Estonia deal with corruption. The security authorities of the Republic of Estonia certainly regard corruption as one possible security risk. In addition, corruption is also a risk to the economic environment, and corruption is a risk to the morals and functioning of society. As regards the way in which the investigation of corruption is structured, the procedure, it is not by chance that the Republic of Estonia has given jurisdiction to the Defence Police Department to handle certain corruption offences. The Defence Police Department is also known to carry out the protection of constitutional order and counter-intelligence. A few weeks ago, the Government of the Republic approved a national security information procurement scheme which, for understandable reasons, is state secret at the level of 'total secrecy'. However, I can say that our security authorities base their work on the broader concept of security in assessing, analysing and countering national security risks, i.e. that corruption, the corruption-dangerous links, may have a negative impact on security for us. The fact is that the risks of corruption relate to Russia, given the hostile position of the Russian Federation in relation to the Republic of Estonia, the desire to subdue us to its sphere of influence. This is a matter that security authorities must bear in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U55	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U56	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I have this question: have you had an overview of Oleg Ossinovski's corruption story in Latvia in your contacts with your Latvian colleague? Do you have an overview of whether any threads are coming to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U57	Thank you. The Republic of Latvia is the rule of law. The Republic of Estonia is the rule of law. The specific case you are referring to is pending in the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Latvia, the judicial authorities of the Republic of Latvia. The fact is that, even in a particular case, Estonian judicial authorities have provided legal aid to the judicial authorities of the Republic of Latvia. On a separate political level, I have not spoken to my Latvian colleague about specific criminal cases, I can assure you. The right thing is that the judicial authorities of the Republic of Estonia cooperate with each other, including in this case. That's all I have to say about this particular case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U58	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U59	Dear Minister, How is it purely ethically or how the government's atmosphere of work is affected by the fact that one of the major donors has been Oleg Ossinovski, who has clearly received a large proportion of the profits from Russian businesses that do not exist without the Kremlin's approval. This gives rise to 'direct suspicion' and to a link that the Social Democrats have therefore been funded by Kremlin money. How does this affect the relations between the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and social democrats in government, which are already intense? If such a fact comes to light, how does it affect the survival of a national-conservative and pro-Estonian party in the government with such a partner?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U60	Thank you. As far as ethical and moral assessments are concerned, each person has the freedom to give to different activities and phenomena. As regards whether there has been a debate between political parties or at government level, or whether a specific possible unlawful act or criminal procedure has been put forward as a political question on a bilateral basis, my answer is no. I think that criminal proceedings, whether related to legal aid by the Estonian authorities to third countries or to internal legal proceedings, are kept separate from the substantive debate in politics. It is fit for purpose, it is the rule of law. As far as moral assessments, perceptions and the resulting beliefs are concerned, they are, of course, within the remit of the assessment providers themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U62	Krista Aru now asks the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister for Health and Labour in the Prime Minister's role! Ida-Viru is a rich and prosperous region. In order to develop it, a number of action plans have been drawn up, along with implementation plans, whether there is money or not. There have also been attempts to invest, to build industrial parks, to allow thousands of jobs. People are waiting there and ready to work. Please tell me why we have not been able to improve the social environment there with all these action plans and operational programmes, and we have left the whole region very vulnerable. After all, the current large-scale VKG concentration leaves thousands of people in trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U64	Thank you. The state has not only tried to invest in Ida-Viru County, it has actually invested. For example, if we look at the sums that have gone to the counties during the last period of EU funds, then after Harjumaa, Ida-Virumaa will essentially come next. It is true that the government has considered the development of this region to be important, a priority and has directed a wide range of resources there. We all know a number of projects that have been carried out with the help of European Union funds as well as with our state's money, be it the construction of Jõhvi Concert Hall or the new Narva College building, the organisation of the riverside area in Narva city, various infrastructure objects, including a traffic junction between Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve. It is also true that the state has invested in the development of industrial areas and will continue to do so. However, the fact is that the socio-economic situation in the region remains complex. Unemployment is higher, health indicators are lower, incomes are lower. This is a complex problem. I would be happy to talk to you on this subject for long hours, having been in close contact with these problems in my political work. The root or main concern of this matter is the one-sided nature of the economic structure of Ida-Viru County. On the one hand, it is a major advantage that Ida-Viru County is essentially the only industrial area, there are a lot of industrial potential, people with skills. At the same time, however, as a very large part of the labour market is built on large employers, many jobs are being hit at the same time as a result of various global changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U65	Minister of Health and Labour, please try to respond in two minutes! Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. I'd like to keep asking from here. In a crisis that has really developed there, has the government, apart from the oil shale resource tax, planned to introduce some temporary tax distinctions that take account of the particularities of the region?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U67	No tax distinctions, but there are certainly a wide range of activities. Firstly, in the short term, there is a very active job on the ground by the unemployment fund team. This morning, the first lists of posts to be made redundant have arrived, bringing together a total of 370 workers, and a little more will come. From 20 January, a career advisor who deals specifically with people will start working in the company. Information days are held for direct managers so that they can advise their employees on what their rights are and how to get a job in the future. On 2 February there will also be a job fair, where potential employers who offer jobs of the same profile in Estonia can find the employees they need. Of course, there will be statutory redundancy benefits, which will provide sufficient social guarantees for people until the end of this year. In-service training and retraining programmes, which are provided for by law, will also be in place. In addition, we have planned a number of activities that are, let's say, a little longer. Firstly, the unemployment fund will launch its unemployment prevention programme from next year. This means that, if the unemployment fund is currently working with people who are already unemployed, trying to find new jobs for them and improve their skills, in the future, we want to train more people who are working, especially in those areas where we see that the economic structure is changing and jobs will disappear in the future. We do not have to wait until these people are laid off, but we can improve their skills before they do. This program is on. In addition, of course, more investment is needed to improve the region's living environment and increase competitiveness. On Thursday, the government decided to support the Narva Vaba Lava project, according to which Narva would become a new, modern theatre house. The Ministry of Education supports the establishment of state secondary schools in Ida-Virumaa with a total of four pieces. In the area of health, we are talking about both setting up health centres and improving hospital infrastructure. I hope that in the new situation, all ministries will review their priorities...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U68	Now the sentence's over. Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour ... and find ways to channel additional investments into Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U69	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U70	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The country has indeed invested a great deal in Ida-Viru County, and there are plans for how to proceed with this. Please show us the forecasts of how many new jobs public investment can bring to the region.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U71	I am, in general, modest in terms of the exorcism of such large, long - term good news. The establishment of industrial parks is expected to create 4,000 new jobs by 2019. Having been working in the region for a while, I know that a few years ago there were also supposed to be 1,000 jobs, but by then they had been created around 100. The fact is that there is a market economy in Estonia. This means that the state does not create jobs directly, but to a limited extent we can act and create the necessary environment for investment to come, whether it be an appropriate tax environment, training people, building infrastructure or improving the living environment. This is what the state can help with. Of course, it remains to be hoped that the global situation will also move in the direction that entrepreneurs will find sufficient motivation to organise their production or other work in Ida-Viru County. This is certainly where the education system plays a very important role. For example, if we look at the fact that in Ida-Virumaa there are essentially no IT companies, but at the same time the Narva schools are known for being well taught in mathematics, this is, in my opinion, a huge potential that could be exploited. After all, this is an international business sector, where language problems are much less concerned than in other areas. As a result, an IT curriculum was launched at Narva College while I was Minister of Education. I think that if the state takes this type of initiative that improves the qualifications of workers, improves the living environment, if we invest in infrastructure, then Ida-Viru County could really become an attractive area for employers. The fact that labour costs are lower there, for example, because people's wages are low, is a great benefit to business on the other hand, from which it is possible to hire employees and manage them more effectively. So I really believe that these efforts will lead to a better situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U72	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U73	The next question is the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister for Rural Affairs! We haven't talked here in a long time about your bread number last year, the boar and the swine fever. The Food and Veterinary Office now wants to turn Estonia into a region where the user of the hunting area is obliged to grant the owner a free hunting permit for the pig hunt. 120% of the pig hunting plan has been completed in Saaremaa, several areas of South Estonia are free of boars. In which area is there a problem now that you want to take such a step?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U75	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The FVO certainly does not have such a plan. This proposal has come through the Ministry of the Environment and has been considered as an opportunity to apply additional hunting capacity. If you ask for my personal position, now that the hunters have completed 72% of the hunting norm, if you remember, the agreed hunting volume was 29600 boars, I do not see the need to implement this proposal. So my position is stated here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U76	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U77	Yeah, I'll keep going. The hunting community is very concerned and writes that they consider this proposal to be unacceptable, vile and non-state-manly. Do you think it is also the case that one of the interest groups of landowners is trying to achieve a 'preferential' status under the flag of a pig plague?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U78	Thank you. I can't comment on whether or not one category wants to take advantage of a crisis in its very personal, personal interest. We must realise that the landowner has a role to play, and he is certainly an important partner in any activity. We are actually discussing whether we could grant additional hunting permits to landowners. At a time when I believe that hunters have done well with what has been put on them and what has been agreed, I do not consider it very reasonable to include additional resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U79	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U80	Mart Helme will be able to ask the Minister of Justice one more question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U81	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have come up with the idea that the Burk Ban Act should be passed in Estonia. There have been objections to your proposal. Has this matter been under discussion in the government, and what process could we now face in order for the proposal to find the unanimous support of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U82	Thank you. I can put it this way: the Ministry of Justice has drawn up an intention to develop certain rules of law in public space, including the question of full face cover. We have sent it to the court of procedure. I can say that the general attitude is that this is a serious issue which needs to be analysed in the light of the perceptions of our cultural space, the fundamental rights of individuals, as well as the religious background. As Minister of Justice, I am of the opinion that, first of all, the Republic of Estonia is justified to lay down rules on public space and behaviour that we regard as right in the light of our values and customs. We've done this before. Secondly, it is certainly an issue that needs a thorough analysis. The Ministry will do it. The various institutions that called on us to discuss the matter can also express their opinion on the coordination round. After the evaluation has been developed and the analysis has been carried out, this issue will certainly be discussed more widely, both in the government and in Parliament, to whom I will be happy to present the conclusions that have been drawn. It is clear that this is a phenomenon that is not presently common in Estonia, but I have also learned from conversations with my colleagues in Europe that it is reasonable to think about problems in society before they actually appear, because it will be more difficult to solve them. We have the right to make decisions and make choices based on the general beliefs of our society and our understanding of the general cultural and value rules, the rights of men and women.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U83	Thank you, members of the government. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U84	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Prerequisites and enquiries for transfer. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I will present an inquiry to the Minister of State Administration, Arto Asa. On 19 November last year the concept of administrative reform was approved in the government office and on 18 December a draft administrative reform law was sent to the coordination circle. These documents also provide a timetable for the reform. In contrast to the timetable presented in the summer, the so-called voluntary and forced accession stages of local government units have been partially overlapping since February 2017. The time-harmonisation of the accession process of a different nature creates confusion and misunderstanding during the process. The government also approved the presence of a minimum of 5000 inhabitants in the local government unit as a criterion for administrative reform. On this basis, in a letter sent to the Ministry of Finance on 14 January, the Estonian Cities Association asked whether it was legitimate to set a minimum population limit. According to the explanatory memorandum to the Bill, draft laws governing the organisation and functions of local government are still being developed and submitted to the Government of the Republic for approval after the entry into force of the Administrative Reform Act. This means that we need to join without knowing the legal situation and the conditions under which the local government operates. There is also uncertainty about the tasks and funding principles of local authorities. In this regard, we are asking a number of questions to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U86	We will review the inquiry on the basis of the paragraphs set out in the Home and Working Procedures Act. If it meets the requirements of the law, we'll pass it on to the minister. Incoming check, please! 90 members of the Riigikogu are present, 11 are working elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U87	Our first item is the Government of the Republic's overview of the stability subsidies granted by the European Stability Mechanism and the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Stability Mechanism. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! The procedure for processing this item is somewhat exceptional. First the presentation of the Minister of Finance, then the questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Then there will be negotiations, during which political group representatives will be able to make speeches. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. Please, Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As set out in the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, it is again time for an annual overview of the stability grants granted by the ESM and the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the ESM. Last year brought both success and more difficult moments for the ESM and the euro area. The biggest achievements in 2015 were the successful completion of Cyprus' adjustment programme and the two early repayments by Spain. After six months of the crisis in Greece's policy landscape, which also caused confusion in the rest of the euro area, a new Greek adjustment programme of EUR 86 billion was also approved and helped stabilise the Greek economy. The year 2015 began with good news when Lithuania became a 19th member of the ESM after joining the euro area. As a result of Lithuania's accession, the total ESM capital increased by 2.86 billion euros. The merger did not change the amounts of participation in the capital of the other ESM participants. The only change was in relative ownership. Estonia's participation decreased from 0.1855% in the past to 0.1847%, or less than 0,2% of the capital. In addition, it should be noted that the ESM remains one of the highest quality international financial institutions in the sense that the share of paid-up capital is 11,4% compared to the total capital. Therefore, the summer crisis did not affect the assessment of the leading credit rating agencies by the ESM and both Moody's and Fitch confirmed the top ratings issued in previous years. The profit earned in 2014 amounted to EUR 443.9 million, as in the previous year, to a reserve fund of EUR 697.3 million in total. It is expected that the positive trend will continue in 2015 and that the ESM will thus be able to further increase its reserves. Currently, Spain, Cyprus and Greece are ESM clients. Spain exited the ESM aid programme as early as 2013 and remains under post-programme surveillance. This means more accountability for the country than usual and regular European Commission monitoring missions. Last year, Spain made two early repayments to the ESM, amounting to EUR 4 billion. This sent a strong signal to the Spanish markets that the country's economy would return to normal and that a strong liquidity position had been achieved thanks to the ESM. Cyprus continued to implement its aid programme and EUR 500 million were disbursed during the year. Thus 6.3 billion of the planned EUR 9 billion have been used up. There have now been seven reviews of the programme, all of which have confirmed that Cyprus is meeting the objectives set out in the programme. The progress made in the restructuring of the financial sector has made it possible to remove most of the restrictions on capital movements set out at the beginning of the programme and banks have generally made profits. However, despite some outflow of deposits from Greek subsidiary banks, the impact of the Greek crisis remained small and did not jeopardise the Cypriot banking system. Cyprus' aid programme will end in March 2016. In view of the progress made so far, it is likely that Cyprus will exit the programme successfully and will not need additional funding. Greece became the biggest challenge of the year. The second aid programme financed by the EFSF should have ended by December 2014 in accordance with the conditions initially agreed. In order to give the new incoming government additional time to comply with the conditions of the programme, the duration of the programme was extended until June. Since the objectives set could not be met during this period, the EFSF programme expired without making the last payment. The ensuing acute crisis quickly seized the entire financial system of the country and the government was forced to impose a restriction on the movement of capital. In July last year, Greece submitted a formal request for a new financial assistance programme to the ESM. There followed intense negotiations on the credit conditions in the euro area, which resulted in the approval of a new aid programme for Greece by the ESM Board of Governors on 19 August. The Riigikogu gave its consent to the Greek support programme the day before, on 18 August. The new aid programme will have a duration of up to EUR 86 billion in 2015-2018. The first tranche amounted to EUR 26 billion. The main objectives are to restore the sustainability of the state budget through the reform of the VAT and pension system, to ensure financial stability, to foster competitiveness and investment growth in the Greek economy and to enhance the efficiency of the public sector. Particular emphasis will be placed on the fight against corruption and the strengthening of the independence of institutions such as the Tax and Statistical Office. So far, Greece has met its targets, albeit with some delay due to the elections in September. By December 2015, Greece successfully completed the recapitalisation of the four systemic banks. In the two cases, the funds involved in the market were sufficient, which can be seen as an encouraging sign of the growing private sector confidence in the Greek banking sector. In the case of the two other banks, the ESM also participated in the recapitalisation of EUR 5,4 billion. As a result of the recapitalisation of the systemic banks, they will be able to re-issue loans, which should contribute to a faster recovery of the economy. Taking into account all loans granted and still outstanding under the programmes, the lending capacity of the ESM for the next 12 months will be EUR 369.31 billion. As you know, Estonia is represented in the ESM Board of Governors by the Minister of Finance and Deputy Director and Deputy Secretary-General of Financial Policy and External Relations of the Ministry of Finance. Four meetings of the Board of Governors and 14 of the Board of Directors took place in 2015. The most important decisions taken concern the programme countries already mentioned. The ESM's financial report for the previous year was also approved, ESM's profit was allocated to the reserve fund for the previous year and the ESM's budget was approved for the following year. The Board of Directors also approved the new ESM Staff Policy Code. Last year, the Government of the Republic has addressed the Riigikogu to take part in the vote on the draft memorandum of aid for Greece, and the Riigikogu made a decision in support of its memorandum on 18 August. In addition, the government has provided an overview of the state of play of Greece's second financial programme and Lithuania's accession to the ESM Riigikogu's European Union Affairs Committee. In the new year, Cyprus's aid programme will continue, which is expected to be completed as early as March. An extension of the programme is not expected. In parallel, quarterly surveys and payments of the Greek programme will continue. The Riigikogu will be kept informed of the progress made in implementing the assistance programmes through the European Union Affairs Committee. I hope to present the results of the first review to the Riigikogu already in February. In January 2016, the Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) for banks started work and as part of the Single Resolution Fund (SRF). The respective transnational treaty was ratified by the Riigikogu last November. The proposed amount of the Fund is EUR 55 billion, to be achieved by payments made by banks over a period of eight years. National credit lines will be used to guarantee that the resolution fund will be able to cover the resolution costs even during the fund's fund-raising period. This is 22 million euros for Estonia. It is important to note that the credit line is only used to cover the resolution costs of banks in a particular country, only if other measures are not sufficient. If the State is not in a position to offer a credit line, it can also ask for ESM support. In this context, the Ministry of Finance will also submit drafts for the approval of the temporary credit line to the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu in January. In 2016, discussions will continue on the possibility that instead of temporary national credit lines, the ESM would provide protection to the resolution fund, but this would require the amendment and ratification of the ESM Treaty. Despite the tight situation in the summer around Greece, the survival of the euro area as a whole was not in question. In four out of five cases, ESM and EFSF have proven that conditional support is helping out of the crisis. Although the fifth case in Greece presented a real challenge, the euro area proved its unity and stamina. Participation in the ESM is a guarantee for Estonia that euro area countries in economic difficulties do not jeopardise the euro area as a whole and therefore do not jeopardise Estonia's financial stability. I hope that good cooperation will continue in the future in dealing with ESM issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U89	Questions for the Minister! Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U90	Thank you, Minister of Finance. In August of last year, a decision was taken in this hall with the votes of the Reform Party, IRL and Sots that Estonia will participate in the action and support Greece's new aid package. It has a full volume of EUR 86 billion. As you mentioned, the first part of it has gone, it is 26 billion, there are 60 billion left. Is this additional aid needed by Greece? If necessary, then why, and if so, when will this next part begin?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U91	Thank you. As I mentioned in my introduction, the Greek aid package is in the order of 86 billion, and it will be divided into several years to come. But yes, from last year until 2018, the total amount is 86 billion. The first payment has been made to the tune of 26 billion. Let us also remember the debate that was last year. Support shall be granted for the implementation of specific actions. Let us look at what Greece has already done, and more specifically, a little less has been carried over, because there were also 10 billion in the 26 billion to recapitalise banks. It turns out that Greece has done quite well. At the moment, it does not need to recapitalise banks of this size; it can essentially handle half the amount. But each transfer has been accompanied by Greece's own actions, which it has committed, and has been closely monitored. What can I say today? Greece is following the Troika: not only the European Commission, but also the European Central Bank and the IMF. According to the November report, Greece fulfilled all the 49 objectives it had set itself at that point. What were those 49 goals? I'll get you some more important ones. The provisions of the Criminal Code on tax evasion and fraud were supplemented. Among other things, penalties for tax fraud were increased, the fight against tax fraud, financial criminals was stepped up, indirectly extending the bank account register, which now records the balances of taxpayers' bank accounts and transactions over the last ten years. An action plan was agreed with the European Commission to improve public procurement, including the adoption of an improved legal framework on measures to improve e-procurement, their responsibilities and coordination. The reform of the gas market was initiated in line with the agreed timetable. A plan for the restructuring of the Athens public transport company was adopted. The Bank of Greece has provided the Bank with the necessary information to enable it to assess the Bank's liquidity position. The recommendations of the OECD first package were also continued. This package contains a wide range of recommendations up to the point of reducing these disproportionate restrictions on pharmacies. After November, the next month was December. In December, Greece also met all its own targets. By then 13 more had been added to these goals. I will also bring out the most important thing that happened in December. For example, a Commission on the procurement of new VAT software solutions was identified. The main objective of the new software is to prevent VAT fraud. As you know, VAT fraud in Estonia has also been a topical issue in recent years. While the first OECD Recommendation Package was adopted in November, legislative amendments to the Second OECD Recommendation Package were already approved in December. A plan was adopted to set up a new coordinating centre with the Bank of Greece to monitor the implementation of the strategy for dealing with bad loans. Interministerial committees were convened to ensure that the various professions do not have different restrictions on entry into the market. An operational plan for the privatisation of electricity networks was adopted. An operational plan for the creation of a new privatisation fund was approved. A budget-neutral reform of the single public ranking was adopted in Greece. And so on, the activities that Greece is forced to undertake in order to benefit from the programme are numerous. And each time, for each subsequent decision to be taken, to transfer the amount of each individual loan, Greece must comply with the direct commitments it has entered into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U92	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U93	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Member of the Board of Governors of the European Stability Mechanism, You've been there for four meetings. Open up a bit of this background, which has been proposed by these five Presidents of the European Union to deepen their financial and economic cooperation. What are we really going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U94	Thank you. I think that this issue covers a much wider issue than the ESM. But, by its very nature, this is the right question for which a separate debate is needed. At the moment, I owe you an answer as to whether, in my opinion, this is a separate seminar on the five presidents' report, which is expected of the European Economic and Monetary Union in the coming years, under the direction of the European Union Commission. In general, such three-step harmonisation, enhanced cooperation and possible guarantees are envisaged. On the one hand, the share of taxpayers' money is decreasing, on the other hand, certainty is increasing. I would not be opening up this issue very thoroughly here, because the issue is too broad to dismantle it specifically in the context of last year's ESM report. I'm trying to stay with last year. However, I think that, in principle, the Riigikogu plenary could carry out a major debate on the future where specific issues would be addressed. This is a topical issue in the near future. I am thinking not only of this report by the five presidents, but of the general trends in the European Economic and Monetary Union: what we want to do, how we intend to achieve a situation where there would be some harmonisation in certain aspects and where we feel that we have preparation for possible crises. But I wouldn't go deep now, because the subject we are talking about today is last year's ESM report and related to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U95	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U96	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I will come back to the Greek financial crisis for a moment. We all know that, following Greece's accession to the euro area, the banks found that loans to Greece were less risky than before, because they were confident that Europe would do anything to help in the event of an emergency. Indeed, that is the case, the ESM is currently essentially acting as a mechanism for paying off unconsidered risk decisions by bankers. However, crises such as those in Greece may recur in Greece or elsewhere, and it is relatively obvious that Estonia cannot continue to pay for the bad investment decisions of bankers, nor can it consistently support countries that are considerably richer than us. What is Estonia's ESM exit strategy if it should prove necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U97	Thank you. I would like to correct your introduction to the question. You stated that Greece has now been supported by the ESM and, in the past, by the EFSF, so that the banks could get their capital back and the bank owners would win. In reality, the situation is different. Who has not lost in Greece so far? Greece has not lost taxpayers from different countries. They are the only ones who have not lost because of what happened in Greece. In Greece, some restructurings were carried out a few years ago and private investors lost 50-75% of the investments they had made in Greece. They lost, the taxpayers didn't lose. If we look at the current situation, where Greece is also recapitalising banks, what does that really mean? This means that some bank owners lose all their assets. In essence, the state takes over the banks. Now there is a specific issue of how it divides them into good and bad banks, so-called banks with loan portfolios. After all, the aim is to help these banks get back on the market and then sell them later, because why would the state want to keep its own banks? There are no municipal banks in Estonia either, at least at national level. I do not think it is correct to say that only banks will be helped. Rather, banks' customers, the Greek people, are being helped to prevent the overall financial collapse. Private investors have lost so far. The other part of your question was what the exit strategy is. I think we should ask the other way around this day. There are 19 countries in the euro area, the last to join Lithuania in 2015. Latvia joined in 2014. At the time of the establishment of the ESM, 17 countries took part in it, including Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have come more in recent years. The question should be quite different: why have these countries set up the ESM and why did the latter two countries, Latvia and Lithuania, join the ESM? I think it's more appropriate to ask. The answer to this is the guarantee we get by participating in the ESM. That's the answer. For us, nothing is a guarantee but that the countries that are in the euro area are stable and that stability is being transferred to other countries as well. If instability were to be passed on to other countries, our damage would be much greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U98	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I agree with you that, in four out of five cases, conditional support has helped. I am not optimistic about Greece at first. You mentioned 49 formal objectives that have been realised. But to what extent do the steps taken work in substance, or how long could there be a reasonable time after which the impact of the reforms could be assessed? How far has the reform of the tax system and the pension system actually been achieved? Do they appear to have a significant impact on society, or have only Mr Cipras's world view changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U100	In view of the communication between Greece and other countries during the crisis which reached its peak in the middle of last year, it must be acknowledged that Greece's failure in particular has over time increased mistrust of Greece. It's a reality. And let us remember that in August last year, no one denied it. I, too, stated here on the platform that distrust was very high, and no one knew whether Greece was fulfilling the obligations that it was assuming, whether it was carrying out the promises it was making to all the other euro area countries. In the debate at the time, let us recall, the question was raised as to whether one, the other or the third measure would give the result expected. I, as one of the principal rapporteurs for the draft, did not at that moment question the extent of the impact of the measures, but whether all the promises would be fulfilled. In fact, it was agreed that during this period the loan would not be transferred to Greece until they started to fulfil their commitments. And it has been followed. As you know, the aid programme is not such that all money is transferred at the same time. It is a three-year programme and a very large part of the reforms that are currently being carried out will only have a longer impact in the coming years. It is clear that some effects may already occur quickly and in the short term, but structural changes require time to take effect. If we make any changes to the pension system, they will have the same effect over the longer term. At the same time, if we make changes to VAT, it may already have an effect next month. But the assessment of whether Greece has fulfilled its promises is: yes, it has. Will it also affect Greek fiscal figures? Yes, it does. If you ask what the level of fiscal figures in Greece will be by the end of next year, what is now going on in the coming period will give you an idea whether the scale of the impact will be as expected. But we can still give the answer after a little while. Let us not forget that the period of active implementation of the new programme has been rather short.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U101	Martin Helme's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U102	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, as you say, the amount of 22 million lines of credit, which are intended to guarantee the European resolution fund as long as this fund comes together, also went through. As far as I know, although the resolution fund comes from directives, this credit line does not come from directives. There is a political agreement on this. Who, when, where and by what mandate did this credit line agree and are it really necessary? I understand that this risk is not very high because, first of all, it is the resolution fund itself, then the ESM will come and only after that will be our guarantee, but why is it necessary? Who agreed to this? When has this been mentioned before?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U103	I deliberately introduced this issue, although it does not in itself relate to last year's ESM annual report. But I deliberately brought it in to offer a broader vision in the context of the stability of the euro area. At this point in time, the Riigikogu has a specific draft in its proceedings, the purpose of which is to create a fund. As I said, the purpose of this fund is to ensure that taxpayers' money is preserved in the face of possible future banking crises. Let us remember that there have been situations in previous years where taxpayers' money has moved to rescue banks. This is part of this vision of the future, which requires banks to make a joint contribution. And by its very nature, it provides that EUR 55 billion will be raised in this fund in the European Union over the next eight years. Estonia's share, as I mentioned, is 22 million. I am not going to explain very thoroughly at this point how these percentage relationships will develop. In the case of banks, everything also depends on the extent to which they have certain obligations vis-à-vis third parties. The risk levels will be assessed and the contributions of each individual bank to this fund will also result from this. But let's stick to the fact that the amount of Estonia is 22 million. It is certainly important that, during the first year, we have almost 25% of this 22 million banks to pay. You asked where this political decision was made. Yeah, true story, a credit line if that's not decided yet. But what is the logic of the credit line? This is because banks collect 55 billion over eight years, and the amount of Estonia is, as has been said, 22 million. Now, if a particular bank in a country is going to have a crisis and need the funds of this fund, but the fund has not yet started to work in full, its volume is smaller than what is needed to resolve the crisis, that is why credit lines are needed. This would be 'bridge financing' for the period until the capitalization reached its full capacity. The debate on this topic will come to this very Riigikogu. The decision is, of course, for the Riigikogu to make; this right cannot be exercised by anyone else, nor does the Minister of Finance have such powers. It is, of course, only the competence of the Riigikogu's plenary to assume possible additional obligations for temporary bridge financing. This discussion lies ahead of the Riigikogu. If several things happen to coincide, if the fund has not yet reached its full capacity and there is a crisis in a bank, disbursements are needed, then later bank contributions will, of course, be returned to the state budget. This is the case if such a scenario should be triggered. But this debate will come to the separate Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U104	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U105	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! In the case of Greece, the final solution is certainly the write-off of loans. This is also the view of the IMF, which will not be joining this plan as well as supporting Greece. The amount of aid is such that it cannot be repaid in any way thanks to economic growth. But that's what I'm asking. You talked a lot about the warranty of guarantees. The Estonian state has also guaranteed a loan of slightly more than half a billion euros, which means a quarter of the total state budget loans. When could the first deadline fall for the Estonian state if we could start to recover these loans? How do you comment on that? What kind of risk is involved, and what dates are the first repayment dates?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U106	I wonder if you can answer your question or reject the statement that preceded your question. Which one should I do? There's a good chance it makes sense to do both things, otherwise there's a question in the air, and it seems that your introduction to the statement is correct. I do not agree with you mainly that all the parties have been convinced at the time the money was given that this money will never come back. That was a statement that was the introduction to your question. I don't think so. And my opinion is based not on any faith upstairs, but on reality. The reality is that, first of all, as I said, the various countries that have received support from the ESM have succeeded in implementing their programme objectives. As a result, they have achieved a situation where their financial stability has recovered or is recovering. I would like to stress once again that it is important for all countries providing assistance that those countries that receive support from the so-called safety nets, be they ESM or EFSF, are able to restore their normal governance, normal cost-benefit accounting and return to the financial market. After all, all countries are actually on the financial markets, including Estonia. We are proud that the Estonian state has the lowest debt burden in Europe, and this is undisputed. But Estonia also has loans. At some point, Estonia has also had a need to finance, for example, specific co-financing and borrowing for this purpose. All countries have had a greater need than others. Estonia has so far had the least of these needs. It is certainly not right to say that when giving money, all parties have written it in the chimney. This is definitely not right. As far as your question is concerned, what are the guarantees and what are the risks, I will also touch on the EFSF, which worked in the previous period. There's a little difference. In the case of EFSF, we had guarantees for the entire loan process. There's a slightly different situation with the ESM. The total capital of ESM is slightly over EUR 700 billion, namely 704.8 billion. Of this 704 billion, the paid-up capital is 80 billion and has already been paid up. Of the 704 billion, 80 billion have been paid up by different countries. Each country has its own capital key. In the case of Estonia, it is a capital key, as I said, 0.1847%, or just under 0.2%. It was eight thousandths higher, but with Lithuania's arrival, the percentage of our participation slightly decreased. Due to this capital key, Estonia has made an ESM real financial contribution of 148.8 million. This is our real deposit we've made today. And for the rest of it, it is a so-called callable capital capacity. If there is a situation in which additional funding is needed, this amount may be charged to us for additional money. The 80 billion already in existence in the ESM will not be lent out by themselves. It's placed in different securities and accounts. On this basis, bonds are issued on the international bond market and the money thus received is given to potential needers. For example, Cyprus, Spain and Greece. That is the situation. If we want to keep some numbers ahead, then, as I said, our share in the ESM, with a total of 704.8 billion, is 1.3 billion, of which 148.8 million have been paid up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U107	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U108	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! They still love to repeat that the euro guarantees stability and prosperity and everything else. The real situation is different. The real situation is that countries that retain their own currency now have significantly better economic indicators than the euro area. There is a clear economic stagnation in the euro area, high unemployment, virtually no growth, etc. But with regard to the ESM, my question is as follows. The French President has declared an economic emergency and the French budget is cut by EUR 2 billion. Can we see the next crisis country in France and what systemic danger this perspective poses to aid mechanisms?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U109	I'll start a little further. It is, of course, the decision of each country itself, whether it wants to be isolated, whether it wants to be a country that sits virtually somewhere encased, or whether it is open and shares some common values. It is a decision that each country must make. Estonia is a small country in all its volumes, and I think it is very important for us that we have joined the European Union. I am not just talking about common values here, but I think you also share this view. In economic terms, however, we have actually been able to access the European internal market, and this is also our internal market today. Let us compare our directions in the early 1990s and today's day! When we regained our independence in the early 1990s, our biggest partner was Russia. That was the dominant direction. Now our biggest market is the European internal market. I think we have won a great deal in the European Union and in the euro area. It's an introduction. With regard to France or to specific countries at all, Mr Ernits asked before, who asked for clarification of the so-called five presidents' report on strengthening economic and monetary union. Fiscal indicators in all countries are currently being monitored much more closely than in the past. Any relaxation that has previously been allowed is now under tighter supervision, and not only under supervision, it may be accompanied by comments and comments may, in turn, be accompanied by sanctions. All fiscal indicators, starting with budget deficits, are being monitored. Even to Estonia, which in itself has been a model for almost all of the indicators, as you know, the European Union has made a remark and said that your wages are rising faster than your productivity, and this could put certain fiscal indicators at risk. Even in such a case, a note is made and not just a remark, but they come to see what may be the cause of the problem. It's always positive when someone's pay goes up. This is mostly a positive direction, but when it starts eating productivity, it can become dangerous at some point. What do I mean by that? Countries with a fiscally looser budget are carefully monitored and tried not to cure the disease, but to prevent it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U110	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U111	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! That's the treatment or prevention I wanted to talk about. Isn't it that every time Greece has a deadline falling, the whole world starts to deal with this issue, the tension in the markets is growing and panic is emerging. And once another decision has been made, life will be like a flower, everything will be fine, and the subject will disappear from the media. Do we still have the results of continuous monitoring, the information about small steps, the fact that something is happening there every month instead of waiting another year and a half and then starting to solve the problem? Will the results of such follow-up monitoring always reach your desk? The other part of the question is motivated by the question of Tarmo Tamme. Do you think that the US and Japan will ever be able to pay off their foreign debts in full, as well as the best bridge player in Estonia? And are they even supposed to do that? I mean, the debt can wait till the end of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U112	Well, there's nothing to do with bridge. But let's get to it from a distance. First of all, the Greek pattern of conduct that they have been honoured over time. Indeed, we must admit that the questioner is right: a number of decisions have been taken only because things have already been played in a real corner and the problems are completely obvious. We all remember the long discussions last summer. You can't deny all that. Indeed, the Greek handwriting has been this way at times, and it has also reduced the trust of partners in him. However, of course, Greece is obviously a democracy, not a dictatorship. Which means that very much depends on who is in power and what political decisions are being taken. And no country is protected from the fact that political parties may come into power, whose understanding may not be that they want to carry out their duties. Greece does not currently have this problem and Greece has fulfilled its promises. We may think that he is fulfilling these promises because he needs subsequent and subsequent injections of funds. We can look at it this way, too, and I think it is right to look at it that way, because this EUR 86 billion has not been taken out of the ceiling. It has been calculated where this money goes, what it is needed for, and for how long the Greek state and the Greek economy need it. The recapitalisation of banks is foreseen at the first, earlier stage, and some economic recovery measures will come at a later stage. Of course, it will be monitored to ensure that Greece keeps its promises. At the moment, as I said in my introductory speech, there has also been a delay in some specific measures, and there has been about a month's stretch. However, the reason for this has been rather the Greek elections, and obviously there has been no maliciousness. There were elections and the formation of a new government and related problems. That's a month's delay right now. Let's watch the future! Greece is forced to keep its promises, and I will say once again that the result of fulfilling these promises must be in the future that the state restores its financial credibility and that it will be able to receive competitive financing on the markets. This, in turn, means that he can exit the aid program at a calm pace. But we'll take Spain or Cyprus. Why are we not talking today about the Cyprus and Spanish programmes? The Spanish programme, I am sorry, has provided EUR 41 billion for the ESM. You have not asked me once today that wait-wait, whether Spain has already been given 41 billion, much more than Greece. No one's ever asked that question in this hall. About what? Because the country has achieved all the goals it set itself, and as a result, its fiscal figures have improved even better than expected. Spain has started to repay at a faster pace than expected. His first official repayment should have been after 2020, more specifically in 2022, if I am not mistaken. He has already started refunds now and that is why we are not talking about Spain. These two countries have achieved their objectives. They have returned to the financial markets and their fiscal figures are in order. Such a long answer. You also had a question about Japan and America. I feel like we're going to be very spread out in questions and answers, even global. These two countries certainly have some differences. Japan's loan burden is very high compared to GDP. However, the specific feature is that the state's debt burden is practically the amount of loans granted by their own banks. There is practically such a national system. Otherwise, this debt burden is indeed very high in itself, one of the world's largest developed countries. America just has a global currency. Today, I read the news that in the near future, their expenses will exceed their revenues. I think that this must certainly be the subject of attention. Also in the US political debates, such as the presidential debates, which are becoming more and more active, this is certainly one of the most important issues. Current plans could lead to annual US spending exceeding revenues, not billions, but tens and perhaps hundreds of billions of dollars. This may lead to a one trillion dollar increase in budget deficits over a certain period. For a period of time, however, they were able to keep themselves in a very clear balance. I think this domestic debate in the United States is ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U113	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, First of all, I note that the establishment of the stability mechanism as an institution has certainly justified itself. This is also confirmed by examples of successful programme countries. But in my opinion, the biggest risks still lie with Greece. Above all, the question is what is the scenario after 2023. From this year on, Greece will pay back both the principal and the interest on the loans. But I am asking specifically that the Greek creditors' circle was quite wide so far. It was attended by the private sector and also by other institutions outside the European Union. I have a specific question: will the IMF participate in this new programme, which includes 86 billion, most of which are still outstanding? And if he does, how much? I mean financially, not advice and information.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U115	It is currently intended to provide 86 billion purely from the ESM. That is the agreement with Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U116	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I cannot agree in any way that if we help a richer country than we do, paying its loans at the expense of our taxpayers, that this then means openness and the reverse platform would mean closure. But what I want to ask is this: if the ESM made nearly half a billion euros in profit, is there any way to reduce Estonia's liabilities from this profit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U118	I understand why you do not consider aiding Greece as a plus, but I ask you back: would you, however, want the German taxpayer to invest very large sums in Estonia's infrastructure and other infrastructure objects? Do you agree with that? Is that what you want? You can always ask like that when we talk about fiscal numbers. As far as profit is concerned, the ESM has also made profits in those years when it has worked. And, as I said, the profit now amounts to almost EUR 700 million, of which EUR 443 million was earned in 2014. Now, your question is, could you maybe make some rags: take out your profits in the meantime, let the others's stay in. In essence, it has been agreed that the profits earned by the ESM have been placed in the capital reserve. I think the situation is similar to that of an unemployment fund, for example. The question is how much reserve capital would need to be created to feel confident about potential risks and crises. EUR 700 million is, in itself, a very large amount, but given the volumes in the case of the ESM, we are talking about 700 billion of potentially callable capital and 500 billion of potentially deliverable loans, I think it is early to say that reserve capital is enough and no longer needed to increase it. At the same time, I think that we should be satisfied that the countries that have received the money have been able to fulfil their obligations in a good way. The goal is for them to return to the financial market. After all, in fulfilling their duties, they have actually paid interest, and part of the winning of the EMS has come from this. I don't think it's worth talking about taking that money out right now. It won't go away, our percentage in a particular stability mechanism is constant. Rather, we are keeping our fingers crossed that the decisions that the ESM has taken and will make in the future by helping different countries are correct. This guarantee, as we have been saying, is precisely that the beneficiary countries are fulfilling their promises and that compliance with these promises will help them back to the financial markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U119	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U120	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Two questions. The first concerns this profit and possible dividends. I understand they're picking up money in reserve for the time being. The result of the last year was over EUR 400 million, which is quite a small amount. Has the dividend policy been discussed at all in principle? I think it's important because when we created the ESM, we treated it as a financial investment. I remember the smiling teeth on my right and the newcomers laughed at it. I'm basically asking about the possibility of dividends, for example, in 30 years' time. And the second question: you said in your presentation that Greece has met 49 targets. It gave me some hesitation, burned to safety. I don't believe it. How reliable is the information about these goals?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U121	Two questions. The first one on possible interest. True, when the ESM was in its establishment, there were debates about whether such an instrument was needed at all, whether Europe needed safety nets in case one euro area country was in trouble. It was a debate. And the second topic was the probability that this money would go away. No one dared to think that money could be made in any way. Everyone has certainly spoken about these processes, stressing that the primary objective of the stability mechanism is still to be a safety net. That is the primary objective. And I also remember debates about whether we invest in it to make a profit. I remember from the debate in 2012, that I think there was an approach upstairs that we treat it as a financial investment. That was actually the case at the time. I understand that Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi then also had in mind this accounting view that this investment is a financial investment for the Estonian state. All such contributions to various funds, including companies in Estonia for example, are still financial investments. The second part of the question was whether there was a theoretical possibility that countries would ever be paid out the potential growth that this money has earned because it has been borrowed somewhere and at a higher interest rate than the ESM and the credit markets. The ESM itself receives money from the credit markets at very good interest rates, as it has a higher rating than the AAA and is granted very high interest rates on the bond markets. Yeah, of course there's a chance. But I don't think we need to think about it now, as the questioner said. But someday in the long run, that's an option. At present, it is not a question for the countries participating in the stability mechanism of how much interest anyone earns. Of course, the aim is to keep the euro area stable. However, the purpose of this is to ensure that the money put in the stability mechanism is not lost. These are interrelated objectives in this sense, that money has been placed through the ESM in different countries for their economic growth. And when economic growth comes, it automatically results that the risk of a loss of investment has immediately diminished. So many of those maybe in the future possible interest rates. You had another question, too, but I forgot... Right, your second question was about Greece's promises that there were 49 promises, and everything has been fulfilled. Normally we don't have an ideal world, there's always some anomalies and anomalies. The situation is very closely controlled by the Troika, and I have no reason to doubt this control. I know that the way to ensuring that all 49 agreements are honoured is not a straight line. As one of the questioners said here, there have been times when Greece has been situations where the next agreed money is preceded by very intense negotiations. There have also been intense negotiations in this process, but they have still led to a situation where Greece has been able to fulfil its obligations. I remember there was a situation where there was a week or two to the next payout, but two or three positions were unfulfilled. Then there were intense discussions about the pace and how it would deliver on these promises. But the promises were finally implemented and only after that was followed by a payout.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U122	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have a brief and specific question. Of the EUR 86 billion package, 26 billion have been disbursed in August. There's still a $60 billion way to pay out. Do you think there might be a need to pay it out?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U124	If you ask me if I think it might be necessary in the future to pay out this money, perhaps to continue the existing programme, then yes, of course. It wasn't the 86 billion that was set up as a result of two-party-hour rallying and looking at the ceiling. However, specific figures are based on certain assumptions and certain plans that will be made in the near future. If you were to ask if this sum is constant and if it could change over time, I would say that time is going to show. Perhaps a good example is Cyprus, for which it is very likely that the previously agreed loan volume will not be needed. Cyprus shall meet its obligations towards the ESM and the euro area countries with a smaller volume of credit than it once requested from creditors. This is illustrated by the time when the final volume will be formed. However, to the question of whether, in the coming period, additional financial assistance is needed to boost the Greek economy within the framework of the programme that has been agreed, I say yes, of course there is. Otherwise, the deal would have been 26 billion, not 86 billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U125	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U126	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! In recent weeks, there have been so many 'emergency' messages about budgets in Europe, as Germany is having problems meeting the budget. A few days ago, the French President stated that the French economy was on the verge of a disaster. This whole problem is very clearly linked to the immigration crisis, which is likely to be even more massive this year than it was last year, and there is no end or edge to it. Schäuble has come up with the idea of introducing a general new tax in the form of excise duties on fuel in Europe in order to find additional resources for the European Union budget. Such an agreement is unlikely to be reached. Is there a theoretical possibility that the European Union budget will also be financed through the ESM to ensure the functioning of the budgets of countries in difficulty?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U127	Last week, one of my partymates said that sooner or later, believe me, we will reach out to refugees on every issue, no matter what subject we are discussing in this Chamber. Whether we are discussing VAT, ESM or teachers' salaries, sooner or later we will still reach refugees. And you just confirmed it here. I was a little distracted by the beginning of your question. You said that Germany had problems with its own budget. No, Germany does not have a problem in this sense; Germany is, in fact, a model in Europe with its budget. In Germany, the budget is in surplus, its revenue exceeds expenditure. There are not many such countries; Germany is one of them. In the context of a specific issue, I repeat that there are three countries to which ESM financial assistance has been granted. All of these countries have, or have had to a greater or lesser extent, obligations towards the ESM. Two countries are still in the so-called active position of Cyprus as well, so the ESM gives them additional support. And the measures it takes are based on the actions that these countries have promised to launch. I would not like to extend today's debate on what additional fiscal policy measures Europe could take on migration policy and other issues. This is not the subject of today's presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U128	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U129	Thank you. Mr Secretary of Finance. I will take this opportunity to ask you how much the Estonian state's debt is at the beginning of 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U130	It's easier to say the magnitude. I don't have the exact data, but the order of magnitude is around 2 billion, maybe a little down when you sum up all the different positions. When we talk about percentages, it's about 10% of GDP. This percentage is always the best indicator, because the national GDP is different in size. The average European debt is well above 60% of GDP. This 60% is the limit that all countries should pursue. 60% of GDP could be a level that is acceptable, but the current average level is higher than that. But Estonia has the lowest figure: 10% of GDP.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U131	Thank you, Minister, there are no further questions for you, you have answered completely exhaustively. Let's go to the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor. Kadri Simson from the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech with an unusual tribute to the Minister for Finance for what he did three and a half years ago, being chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. He also contributed that we here, with such dull consistency from year to year, discuss the state of play of the ESM and that it has not drowned anywhere in the Commission. Indeed, in 2012, when the Riigikogu discussed the ratification of the ESM Treaty, it was decided that the future would not disappear from the agenda of the large hall anywhere in the Commission, but that the plenary session would always discuss changes to the promised share capital and the maximum loan volume, as well as the approval of new memoranda and important changes to them. Today we have come to the point that the report of the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu on Estonia's participation in the European Stability Mechanism is different from the previous one. For the first time, we need to talk about Greece as part of the European Stability Mechanism. I am clearly reminded of the way in which this Chamber was talking about increasing the volume of the ESM and it was said that, under no circumstances are we talking about Greece, Greece is not supported by the ESM. Now it is clear that it is Greece that needs to be spoken of. Greece's debt-to-GDP ratio was 177% and is probably even higher today. And when it came to the speech here of how much Greece has undertaken its tasks and how it has carried out them 100%, it is remembered that, in the case of Greece, the target of reducing the public debt to 120% of GDP by 2020 was once mentioned. Now, in 2016, we know very well that this sounds as credible as Estonia's arrival in 15 years among the five richest European countries. I quote the Minister of Finance, who spoke about Greece here in the Riigikogu speech chair on 18 August last year and said that if Greece fulfilled all the promises it had made, then the result by 2030 was that, for ten years, the debt burden was 125% of GDP. But there was also talk of version B and version C in the B-scenario, the picture of the future was more pessimistic. It was assumed that the programme would only be partially implemented, that the privatisation proceeds would be lower, that economic growth would not be as expected, but that it would be half a percent lower. And this would automatically have meant that the primary surplus would be lower, and then Greece would have a debt burden of 145% of GDP by 2030. The most positive scenario, which was encouraged to be drawn up, i.e. scenario C, assumed that Greece would fulfil all its promises and structural reforms would generate half a percent higher growth than the baseline scenario, and in this case Greece's debt burden would be seen as slightly higher than 100% of GDP in 2030. Against this background, I would very much like to know who the optimist was who wrote the following lines in this report distributed to the Riigikogu: in four of the five cases, the defence mechanisms have proved that conditional support is helping out of the crisis. The fifth case in the form of Greece has now received at least an initial new respiration under the ESM programme. Paralleled from another world: the same happens to a drug addict who gets a new dose. I feel like I'm going to be normal and life's going to be a second breathing, but that's not the answer. That doesn't mean you don't need another dose. On 18 August last year, 50 Members of the Reform Party, IRL and Sotsia said that Greece deserved support. Greece's reimbursements under the ESM will last until 2059, i.e. another 43 years. That means hoping for a long time that he will fulfill his obligations. Estonia's participation is 1.302 billion euros, in reality we have made a contribution of 148.4 million euros. Tarmo Tamm asked when this risk could come true for us, whether Greece would pay its debt or not. Greece should start reimbursements in 2030, which is because of the composition of the five Riigikogus. All those who have supported this programme with their vote ♪ they are then ambassadors of the Reform Party, IRL and Sots, will also be responsible for the decision with the Estonian state's money in 2030, which will depend on Greece's compliance with its obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U133	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is indeed welcome that, as a result of the Treaty Act on the European Stability Mechanism, the Riigikogu receives an annual overview of the financial situation of the ESM and Estonia's participation in this stability fund. The ESM, which started work at the end of 2012, has played a major role in resolving euro area crises, ensuring the financial stability of the euro area. The Fund's annual report shows that the 2014 results were very positive for the Fund itself. Within a year, the Fund made a profit of EUR 444 million, which went on to increase reserves. We do not yet have the 2015 report, but it is known that the fund's financial position is still strong. According to more recent data, the net result for the three quarters of 2015 was 550 million euros, and most of it, 336 million euros came from the fund as interest income. The Fund's own loan capacity of EUR 500 billion remains to a large extent. As of the end of 2015, the Fund's loan capacity was then EUR 369 billion. The balance sheet total increased and reached EUR 775 billion at the end of last year. Several successful programmes have been implemented as a result of the Fund's activities. The Spanish programme ended effectively at the end of 2013. The reimbursement of loans granted under the programme is scheduled and last year Spain made payments even before the deadline. In view of the current progress of the Cyprus programme, the country does not need additional financing at the end of the programme and it is likely that the country will exit the programme successfully. The final outcome of the Greek programmes is more difficult to predict. The last survey was supposed to be at the end of last year, but it didn't happen and it was delayed to that year. The results of this review are not yet known, although the Minister said that Greece has met its objectives. In any event, the risks associated with the Greek programme exist, given that loans issued from the ESM have very long deadlines: until 2059. However, before that, Greece will have to pay back the EFSF loans and interest accrued from 2023 under earlier programmes. In the Committee on Finance, we specified this and it became clear that, in the case of EFSF loans up to 2023, Greece will not pay either the principal or the interest. During these discussions, it also became clear that the International Monetary Fund will no longer contribute its money to the programme, so I understood the Minister's reply. This, of course, is not very good from the perspective of the European Union. In the past, the Greek creditors' circle was wider, with the private sector, which has now gone out, and other institutions, including the IMF, participated. The result of the evolution of the situation so far is that Greece's creditors remain mainly the European Union institutions, mainly the EFSF and the ESM. Can I have a minute, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U135	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U136	However, regardless of the risks associated with Greece, the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) has and will continue to play a significant role in ensuring the financial stability of the euro area and in addressing crisis situations in particular, so that financial stability in the euro area as a whole is not threatened by serious difficulties in some individual Member States. However, as long as the debt burden of some Member States remains above the permitted level of risk, the euro area debt problem is far from being resolved. However, the successful implementation of several programme countries' assistance programmes and the stabilisation of the whole debt crisis show that the European Stability Mechanism has fully met its expectations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U137	Thank you. Please, Martin Helme, Estonian Conservative People's Party! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U138	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, We are also very pleased that this issue is being discussed regularly in this Chamber. Huge sums of money have been scrambled, and we ask where the benefits are. We are not satisfied with such an answer that the benefits are that the euro area is more stable and beautiful. I'll get to that in a minute, but just in line. In fact, the Estonian taxpayer gave away the money, the Estonian government took debts in order to give the money away. And these sums were not small, with EFSF and ESM in total about half a billion. The point of giving away the money was that we're still going to benefit from it. Now we know that the ESM has already made a very big profit, except we don't get anything out of it, it doesn't make any difference to us. It still doesn't make any sense why not. If it's such a useful thing, if there's profit, if there's profit, then why don't we benefit from it? A separate topic and an important issue is whether Estonians want or whether Estonia wants to rake in the European Union. You know, Estonia entered the European Union on this promise that we will receive euro money. We are not exceptional in this respect; Greece has also received euro money. Over the last ten years, Greece has received more than ten times as much euro support from the European Union than Estonia, although Greece has been much, much longer in the European Union and the money has also been received much, much longer. And he will continue to receive a very large amount of euro support, just as Estonia, Spain, Poland and a whole range of other countries will receive. This is an integral part of the functioning of the European Union as a whole. To say that if we don't pay off the debts of others or go to help the failing banks or the governments that have gone to help the failing banks, then we're going to do something like a rake-upper, it just doesn't add up. These are two completely different things. But who in the European Union is actually doing the rake? There's a simple answer to that. In the European Union, Germany is making the actual racket. The same Germany, which is paying all these euro money to poor and small states such as Estonia or Greece, has been violating the European Stability Pact for years. And it violates much more if it is violated, for example, by France or Italy or Greece, with deficits in their budgets. Germany has systematically violated the principles of balancing external trade within the euro area. German exports are so massive in the European market that it has upped the banking and budgets of the peripheral countries of Europe. Germany makes wild money for the rest of Europe, credits it through its own banks, and then, when other countries fail, forces the rest of the peripheral states to help. Moreover, Estonia does not rake in the European Union, but the rake is made with us because we have given away our most valuable capital, which is human capital. We have given more than 100,000 Estonian people abroad, a very large number of whom have been very well trained and highly trained. It is only worth mentioning Estonian doctors working in Finland. It's the biggest capital ever. Of course, no one has calculated how many per cent of GDP growth would mean for Estonia 100,000 people. But in other countries, it's been calculated. For example, Britain says that immigrants from European Union countries have grown their economies hard over the last five or seven years. So let's not talk about who's making rags for who. We know exactly who's doing what. We get our skin pulled over our ears again, and then they talk about how we should be grateful. I'm sorry, I'm not grateful! In addition, I will briefly mention this, and no speech can be made without touching immigration, that the Swedish budget is in deficit by about EUR 8 billion, because the suicidal government has taken the direction to flood the Swedish state with foreign people who are ill-fated and unofficial. The German Government is also talking about an unprecedented budget deficit with regard to immigrants; France is declaring an economic emergency with regard to terrorism, which is actually linked to immigration. So we cannot talk about European economic matters without talking about immigration. These things are directly related. Well, ceterum censeo, Estonia was wrong to join the ESM. If we go further, Estonia did wrong when it joined the euro area. Estonia needs to restore its national currency and national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U139	Thank you. Kalvi Tough, Social Democratic Party faction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U140	Thank you, good vice chairman. I am in a very difficult position: I would like to give my speech longer than the Minister of Finance, on average, spent answering questions. But to do that, I have to ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U141	Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U142	Thank you. In any case, thank you to the Minister for Finance for their thorough answers. I would like to begin by saying that once again it had to be said that, just as the view of the world in front of this hall in the left corner and behind in the right corner is different, like night and day, the perceptions of Europe, the common European money, European solidarity, also differ. Really, like night and day in front of the left corner and back in the right corner. Good friends! I am talking about the European Financial Stability Facility and the European Stability Mechanism together, because these two things are, in the view of the Socialist Party, part of European solidarity. And while the European Financial Stability Fund (EFSF) was created in this very Chamber, the small Social Democratic Party group that was in opposition was in favour of it, one of the carriers of this matter was. Our group did not attach any importance to this political point, which at the time was very easy to pick off the landscape, in view of the long-term perspective, the most important goal. This is solidarity in Europe. And we are delighted that, today, Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus and Spain have received assistance and, with its support, have successfully solved their problems. Of course, I agree with Kadri Samson that we are probably all expecting more from Greece, but it must be said that the situation there is much more stable than in the past. And so the EFSF and the ESM have played an important role in providing loan guarantees and in imposing requirements on assisting countries that the debt crisis is no longer at the heart of Europe. I dare say that the breakdown of the euro area is no longer an issue. We have a strong euro and we are not talking like a year or two ago that the euro area might fall apart. If we had fought in the euro area for our existence, and if the domino effect had caused problems, apart from Italy and France, would we have reacted as the European Union, for example, to Russia's invasion of Ukraine? Would we have reacted as quickly as we reacted by imposing sanctions on Russia if we had fought at home with problems to keep our euro? Good friends from the EKRE! That's where it comes from. The strength of the Estonian economy lies in a strong euro. In the opinion of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, a Europe of solidarity, a single euro area and a strong euro is a fundamental pillar of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U143	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. At the end of this item's debate, we will not take a decision. The debate on the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U144	We will go to the second item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will present the draft 145 amendments and the procedure before the second reading held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The draft was discussed twice by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 11 and 18 January. Two amendments were made to the draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act. They were prepared in cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The first amendment was given by one financial institution, which pointed out that in some cases compliance with the strict written form of the draft could lead to additional administrative burden for the financial institution as well as the necessary development costs. As we know, the draft refers to the exchange of financial account information between countries. The information may, of course, be exchanged by financial institutions, but the Account Holder must confirm in strict form in writing that he or she is the Account Holder. In the first version of the draft, it was possible to do so using a manuscript or digital signature. However, some financial institutions also enter into contracts in other forms, such as in a format that can be reproduced in writing, if a person is identified by a PIN calculator, a PIN1 code or other means. However, since the activities of the Account Holder can be logged afterwards, it is logically also suitable for confirmation as this allows for written reproduction. That is the content of the amendment. Originally, our draft was more stringent than the international standard. The second amendment concerns the date of entry into force. The Act would enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. This would ensure legal certainty for account holders as soon as possible with regard to rights and obligations. The Commission took procedural decisions. First, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 20 January and to take the amendments fully into account. The Commission was in agreement on this point. The consensus also decided to propose the termination of the second reading and to send the draft to the third reading when the second one is completed by 27 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U146	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate either. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U147	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law 112 on the amendment of family law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. The rapporteur shall be Heljo Pikhof, President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let me brief you on the procedure for the second reading of the draft, how we have to deal with it. Reminder to members of the Riigikogu: first, the presentation of the representative of the leading commission is up to 20 minutes, after which you can ask questions. After the questions, there are negotiations. When amendments have been tabled to the draft, we will, of course, also examine them. That's how the procedure works. Please, Heljo Pikhof, you have the opportunity to enter the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The first reading of the draft law amending the Family Act and related amendments to other laws was held on 11 November 2015 and the deadline for the amendments was set at 25 November. No amendments or other referrals were tabled within the deadline for submitting amendments. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading on 11 January 2016. Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice, took part in the meeting of the Commission. The Committee on Legal Affairs, as the lead committee, did not consider it necessary to amend the draft, so today the draft is unchanged at second reading. However, the members of the Commission had some questions for the drafters. For example, there was an interest in why the level of exchange of information on family matters in some countries is not desirable. In response, the representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that this depends on a number of different circumstances in each country. For example, in all countries such registers are not electronic, and it may be that some countries do not have such registers at all. There was also a question of how divorce takes place in a situation where a husband and more than one wife are in the family. This kind of marriage is common in Islamic countries. According to a representative of the Ministry of Justice, this marriage is still not divorced in Estonia and this bill does not deal with this issue either. It was clarified that, in this case, it is a matter of private international law and that it does not relate to the draft in question. However, if anyone in Estonia wishes to divorce a multiple marriage concluded in accordance with the Sharia Act, the court dealing with this case will decide whether or not our legal space allows it. There is no unambiguous clarity on this issue, but the Estonian court also recognises the right to maintenance arising from multiple marriages. The so-called Rome III regulation on the subject of the draft does not regulate the divorce of same-sex marriages either. As in the case of multiple marriages, these matters are decided by the courts of each EU country on the basis of the regulation of public policy and private international law in a particular country. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 20 January 2016 and to propose that the second reading be stopped. The decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U149	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U150	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would like to ask you to make sure that no one is giving any time to think. The notary doesn't wait, the notary's husbands come together, sign the application, and the divorce process is over. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U151	Depends on the circumstances. If there is clarity in the house, then of course there is nothing to explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U152	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U153	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The Commission was also discussing some of the issues that we had left open at first reading. The Ministry sought answers to these questions. Would you explain a little to the members of the Riigikogu about the recognition of cross-border marriages in Estonia? And how's the divorce going with them? Maybe it's important to know. At first reading, these questions remained somewhat open and further inquiries were made by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U154	He did, and we raised this issue in the Commission, but Indrek Niklus, Head of the Private Law Service, said that Rome III does not regulate the separation of same-sex marriages. That's the answer we got.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U155	Thank you. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U156	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U157	Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments to the draft have been proposed. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 112. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U158	Let's keep going. Today's fourth item is the second reading of the draft law 113 on the amendment of the Succession Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. The rapporteur is Imre Sooäär, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U159	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on Monday, 11 January. Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, Triin Tõnisson, Adviser to the same department, and Liisi Pars, Head of the Department of Information Technology and Data Security, were invited. The minister was also present. The issues discussed at first reading were discussed once again. The answer was a written question to the Minister and the Commission submitted two proposals to amend the draft. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice who participated in the meeting explained the possibilities of making a will when a person is outside Estonia when answering the questions of the members of the committee. The question was, in particular, that if people go on a tour or a mountain tour and something happens there, what is the legal status of wills made in such a place and how is the recognition of these wills in an emergency situation? The normal rules that apply there, or the handwritten will, are also legally competent when written on the journey, if it is written and signed in its own hand. Their recognition applies on the same basis as in the case of a handwritten will in Estonia. In other cases, recognition shall be in accordance with the normal procedures. One question was that the captains have been given the right to accept the will on board international shipping ships and that this right continues to apply. This norm is probably due to the fact that shipping is sometimes long and people are away for up to six months. And this regulation is still in force. The Commission proposed to put the draft on the agenda of 113 plenary sessions today and to propose that the second reading be closed. All the Commission's decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U160	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, How often does it happen that you need a will made in accordance with the regulation that this bill provides? How common is this practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U162	I think it's difficult to answer directly how many of these leaders can be. The point is that the law must give every case, even if there is only one need, a person's wish to be fulfilled. And I think this regulation will ensure that. I would like to remind you once again that these are amendments to the law of succession, which are also due to the regulations of the European Union, and they are directly applicable. So it is about bringing our national regulations into line with them, there is no opening up any new issue here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U163	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled. We'll go through them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 113. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U164	Let's keep going. Today's fifth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Defence Union Act and the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Secretary of Defense, Hannes Hanso, for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U165	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Defence League Act and the Defence Forces Service Act, namely five important points of this. The first is the access of medical committees to eHealth databases. A little background. So far, we have lived in a situation where the state chooses some 3,000 or a little more conscripts each year for military service, but controls out the candidates for military service, who are around 10,000 or a little more, and spends just under EUR 200 or EUR 196 to check each conscript in military service. There is a great deal of duplication in this work. We have an e-health system. Family doctors and other medical practitioners will record their data there, but it is not possible to use e-health data for military professionals. Obviously, this is a very good classic example of silo towering. The state will do the job, then it will do the exact same job again, and it will cost him a lot of money. Our draft aims to ensure that medical committees in the area of administration of the Ministry of Defence have access to e-health from 1 January next year, once the person has given his consent. This will allow savings to be made in terms of time and substantial taxpayers' money and will also provide the medical committee with a better overview of the health status of persons. The Ministry of Defence has already requested access to these data since the establishment of this information system in 2007, but the Ministry of Social Affairs has had a very rigid view that the data is only used for medical purposes. We have now reached a compromise on this issue, according to which the medical committees will have access to the information system once the person has given their consent. There are also some other principles that I want to mention. I stress that only doctors, not officials, can see the data in the eHealth system. Medical committees shall only include specialised doctors registered with the Health Board and shall only be granted access to a limited extent according to the data required by the medical committees for the performance of their duties. Medical committees will also start entering data into e-health themselves and will also be visible to family doctors and other human physicians. Now, briefly, what's going to change. Medical committees will no longer have to repeat the research they have done before and will save taxpayers' money. It will also be easier and faster for professionals to go through a medical committee if they consent to access their data. In plain language, running people from one doctor to another, and then coming back again, all this is off. As it is about allowing access to voluntary data, those professionals who do not give consent must go through the medical committee in accordance with the current procedure, i.e. submit the necessary documents in paper form and undergo the required medical examinations. Civilian doctors should also be given better information about the health of those in employment. The technological solutions for connecting data systems, of course, require development costs; these are covered by the Ministry of Defence's budget. It is estimated that their total cost is EUR 200000 and their annual administrative expenditure is around EUR 24000. However, as I said at the beginning of my story, the cost of checking the health of each professional is now 196 euros and, in the perspective, such an integrated management of data will certainly give a better picture of the potential health issues of the professional and the very considerable savings in the state budget. I think we'll appreciate it in the Department of Defense if we can buy more shells because of this. The second point is the granting of a temporary military rank. In the background, Estonia has recently taken one form or another of international military organisations, such as NATO's staff element, as well as the multi-ethnic cyber defence centre, where 15 framework countries and some partner countries are involved. This has led to a situation where we have to give temporary rank. According to this amendment, a temporary military rank may be given to an active military officer who will be assigned to the international military headquarters in Estonia. In addition to Estonia, the international military headquarters also employs military personnel from many other countries. In view of the rank of military personnel, it is necessary to ensure the capacity of the sub-units. If, for example, the position allocated to Estonia is assumed to be a major's rank, if the subordinates of this person may be up to the rank of the major, it would be difficult for Estonia to direct a specialist who has not yet earned the rank of the major, but is in the rank of the captain, for example. The change can only give him a temporary rank for the duration of the journey, I would stress. The provisional rank shall be granted conditionally and the former rank of the active officer shall be restored after the end of the assignment. At present, this is done as a standard procedure, for example, in the case of the expulsion of our defence Attachés. The wages of these people will not change after this temporary increase in rank. The third point is the calculation of the working time of the active troops. The National Defence Development Plan provides for an increase in the tasks of the Defence Forces in providing support to the host state, i.e. new work related to the adoption of allies. To this end, it is also intended to employ new staff. The resources needed to carry out the tasks envisaged and the preparation of staff to the extent necessary are planned in the long term, but the rapidly changing security environment has led to a situation where the planned activities need to be carried out at a much faster pace. It is not always possible to fill all the posts required for this purpose in an accelerated manner. For example, we initially hoped to see our allies on the Ämari base on a regular basis in 2018, but as we know, they have been here since 2014. It is natural that the "support" pressure on our workers is greater in this regard. As the increase and training of military personnel is not always possible immediately, a more flexible implementation of existing personnel is necessary. The draft provides that the work of the active troops in providing support from the host State shall not be regarded as overtime. This is considered equivalent, for example, to participating in exercises where working time can vary. We are also talking, according to this draft, of up to 300 additional hours per year, which will be reimbursed to the active troops by giving them free time or in money, given the complexity of the tasks carried out and the time taken to carry them out. The extent and procedure of the compensation shall be established by the Commander of the Defence Forces. Fourth point, providing an employer's dwelling for the active troops. This draft adds to the law the definition of the employer's dwelling space and the concept of accommodation of the active armyman, together with the corresponding regulation. The purpose of the amendment is to distinguish more clearly the right to use a personal dwelling from accommodation during the performance of the duties, for example during exercises. The conditions for calculating the charge for the use of the dwelling shall also be specified in such a way that the charge for the use of the dwelling may vary from region to region. It has now been the same across the country. The amendment allows for cost-based accounting when state assets are used. And the last point I want to present to you here today is the amendment of the requirements for determining the salary of the Commander of the Defence Forces. There is currently a procedure in place for the government to confirm the salary of the Commander of the Defence Forces in January of each year. That's even if we don't want to change it. It is an unreasonable regulation. In my opinion, it is quite logical that, on the proposal of the Minister for Defence, the Government may discuss this as necessary. The provisions for determining the salary of the Commander of the Defence Forces are therefore amended. The President of the Defence Forces' salary shall be discussed by the Government only if it is deemed necessary to amend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U166	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I consider it reasonable that sensitive personal data, such as health data, can also be used by medical professionals, especially when the person has given his or her consent. But I have a question about the fact that, as you probably know, very different authorities-agencies have been interested in accessing health data. Has the Data Protection Inspectorate also expressed its position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U168	I don't know about the Data Protection Inspectorate, but the bill has passed all the necessary coordination circles. So I dare assume that this authority has also given its opinion. It is a matter of private personal data and granting access to them has been made optional as a compromise with the Ministry of Social Affairs. The subject shall either tick or not in the box concerned. If he doesn't have anything to hide, if he wants his data to be quickly retrieved, and if there's no more running around this whole process, then I think it's very reasonable to make a bird. In my opinion, this is a compromise solution that should really satisfy all parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U169	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U170	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The amendment also provides for the medical fitness of members of the Defence League. Do you have any practical plan to ask for health information from people who are already in the Defence League and who are more or less passive? And secondly, by supplementing Helmen Hunter's question, is there a control mechanism? After all, the circle of members of the Defence League is expanding and the risks are still increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U171	This bill, as far as I know, concerns only conscripts; it should not be a draft concerning the Defence League. I can specify that, but according to the data I have ahead of me, so it is. In our discussion, too, we have not discussed the issues of the Defence League here. The other part of the question was about control. Yeah, doctors can access those records, not officials. And these must be doctors registered with the Health Board. The thing is, now mostly the same doctors are doing this job anyway. They take their medicine cap off in one of their offices, go to another, to the medical committee's office, and they can't use their data there. So the circle of the persons concerned does not really expand unreasonably, if at all. We have been rolling this idea since 2007 and it seems that we have found a good compromise and a very rational solution to these issues. But as far as the Defence League is concerned, I'm very sorry, but I don't know what to say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U172	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. You said that technological innovations need to be made in order for the medical committee to start using these data in e-health. How far are you with them? Are they already in the experimental phase or are they still in the planning phase? And when could this change take effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U174	The entry into force of the amendment depends on you, good members of the Riigikogu. We cannot assume any obligations until this bill has passed a certain number of readings, so we know it will work. And when it's done, we'll take our responsibilities. In a good case, we should take action in the summer, and the entry into force would then logically be on 1 January next year. By then, all this preparatory work, including the technical solution, must be ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U175	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U176	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. A very welcome draft, but do you not think that a draft could also be tabled to amend the Personal Data Protection Act? Then not every person coming into service should be asked to accept his or her data. And the second question: should it be, or should it be, time to change certain criteria so that it is not easy to lie down in military service?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U177	Thank you, good questioner! That is a very legitimate question. If we are talking about an ideal world that only concerns our area, then, of course, this use of personal data could be automatic. However, there are clearly established practices in Estonia regarding the protection of sensitive personal data. Over the years, we have had to go to a number of compromises so that everything could be done in accordance with our laws. Unfortunately, our laws do not allow such data to be transmitted automatically. As far as the other half of the question is concerned, I don't want to use the word 'flick'. I do not want to claim that there are people in Estonia who want to file. If someone doesn't want his records to be used, he usually does doctors. However, all this work must be done. My hope is that most of the conscripts don't think it's appropriate to hide their data and make that little bird in the right place. Then we do not have this problem on such a scale. It is certain that there must be confidence in this system. I hope that our level of IT solutions, knowing that this system is reliable and ensures the availability of these data in a limited circle. I believe that we are taking a very big step forward with this law. Surely there is an ideal world where things could be a little different, but the person's right to the protection of his data is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U178	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U179	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, My question is based on your previous answer, and it is precisely about trust and filing. There are 129 diagnoses in the current draft regulation, some of which certainly still have a number of subspecies. Given Estonia's small size, do we have enough objective specialists who sometimes have to sit in two chairs, both on the medical commission and elsewhere, to treat people and to take a doctor's oath every day? Can we keep this system reliable so that there will be no abuse?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U180	As I said when I answered the previous questions, doctors working elsewhere do often do the Commission's work. A doctor, such as a family doctor or some specialist, gets up from his stool and goes somewhere else, sits on another stool where he can no longer use it. In fact, it already has access to them anyway and therefore the circle of the persons concerned should not extend. The bill specifically states that this right does not extend to officials. Therefore, I do not see that this is in any way an additional risk that sensitive information can somehow reach people who might abuse it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U181	Thank you. Good Minister, there are no further questions for you. I now ask for a presentation of Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U182	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, As you have already heard, the draft contains a number of amendments to the legal provisions, from which I will briefly mention the most important ones. As the Minister of Defence pointed out in his report, the provisions of the draft under discussion allow medical committees operating in the area of the Ministry of Defence to access the health information system with the consent of the person undergoing the medical examination. At this point, I have the opportunity to complement the Minister for Defence and to answer one of the previous questions that, yes, this draft also concerns the Defence League. Not directly, but indirectly. The lion's share of the Defence League is also reservists, and if the conscript goes into military service and after that is counted as a reserve, health information about him remains in the system. And when a defence ally or a reservist is invited to a reserve training meeting in accordance with the law, this information will be more easily accessible under this law, which hopefully will enter into force. However, yes, the creation of a separate Health Information Register of the Defence League does not mean. The purpose of the draft is also to clarify the residence of the employer, including temporary accommodation of active troops in the barracks on the territory of the Defence Forces for the duration of their duties. The exceptions to the working and rest periods applicable to members of the Defence Forces shall include an exemption from the employment of the host State in international military cooperation at the time of the provision of the support. According to the draft, in the framework of international military cooperation, an active soldier may be employed for longer working days if the armed forces of the allies are supported by the host State. The last point concerns the salary of the Commander of the Defence Forces, not the change in this salary, but the procedure for its approval. Under the current regime, it is unreasonable to fix this salary every year even if it does not change. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 11 January, where the Minister of Defence Hannes Hanso and other ministerial officials participated as representatives of the initiators of the draft. At this session, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu including the 20 January session. In addition, the committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the first reading of the draft and to set ten working days, i.e. on 3 February at 5.15 p.m., in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U183	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 153. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for tabling 153 amendments, including 3 February at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U184	Let's keep going. The sixth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. The aim of the draft is to bring maritime safety law into line with the Directive on the principle of investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector and the Directive on the design and production of recreational craft and jet skis and on the requirement for free movement within the European Union. The Safety Investigation Directive has been transposed with amendments to the Aviation Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Railway Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, but the European Maritime Safety Agency found in its analysis that some provisions need to be clarified. Consequently, the classification of marine casualties, the scope of the adaptation of the safety investigation, cooperation in safety investigations and the rights and obligations of the safety investigation authority shall be specified. The main focus of the draft is to clearly distinguish between the investigation carried out by the Safety Investigation Centre and the investigation carried out by the Maritime Administration under the International Maritime Organisation Code for the investigation of marine casualties and incidents. As a result of the Directive on recreational craft and watercraft, the list of components to be considered as components of recreational craft is specified. In addition, the market surveillance competence of the Maritime Agency is extended from recreational craft to jet skis, while at the same time this oversight competence is withdrawn from the Road Administration due to their lack of competence. A reference to Directive 2013/54/EU on the obligations of the flag State relating to compliance with and enforcement of the Maritime Labour Convention 2006. The Directive has been transposed by the current MSOS provisions, but so far there is no relevant reference in the law. I would like to support the Committee on Economic Affairs' proposal and conclude the first reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U186	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions for you. I would like to ask the Chairman of the Economic Commission, Toomas Kivimägi, to serve as a waitress in person.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U187	Honourable manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act at its meeting on 11 January 2016. In addition to the members of the committee, Merily Must, Head of the Maritime Service of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Gerli Härmsalu, chief specialist, participated in the meeting and gave an overview of the proposed changes. As the Minister pointed out, this draft indeed clarifies, first, the list of marine casualties. In the current version, for example, there is no missing person on the list of marine casualties. There's a person's death, but often being lost doesn't mean he's dead. If someone is missing from the ship, this is a maritime accident if Parliament approves this amendment. The second, quite important clarification compared to the previous one, is that of a very serious maritime accident. Marine accidents are divided into three categories: very serious marine accidents, serious and minor marine accidents. In the current version, the list of very serious marine casualties includes, for example, shipwreck, death of a person and extensive environmental damage. The term 'comprehensive damage to the environment' is currently unwritten, but the amendment of the law gives a very specific list of cases of large-scale damage to the environment. One example is that it is a major environmental damage when 10 tonnes or more of oil comes into the sea as a result of a marine accident. In addition, the introduction of various chemicals into the sea has also been mentioned. So there is a very precise explanation, in which case there is extensive environmental damage. During the meeting of the Economic Commission, there was a greater interest in the discussion as to how the competence of the Safety Investigation Centre and the Maritime Administration in carrying out investigations into maritime accidents is still defined. There's a very simple rule. In the case of a very serious marine accident, an investigation is carried out and is known as a safety investigation, the Safety Investigation Centre. One such very important institution, which also deals with the investigation of railway and aviation accidents, exists in the Republic of Estonia. In all other cases, in the event of a marine casualty or incident, the Safety Investigation Centre shall assess the facts and decide whether or not to initiate a safety investigation. If he initiates a safety investigation, he'll do it himself. If he does not initiate a safety investigation, he shall inform the Maritime Administration thereof and, in that case, the Maritime Administration shall already carry out the investigation. In the second place, there was a sort of fascinating question. I think it was surprising for many that market surveillance of recreational craft, unfinished recreational craft and their components, particularly in terms of safety and security, is dealt with by the Public Road Administration, but not exclusively by the Maritime Administration. Both are currently given such a right and also an obligation. With regard to recreational craft, we must say that the Road Administration has not yet begun to carry out this task. And since the Maritime Administration is doing so, in other words, and apparently has a better competence in this area, it is proposed that the Road Administration should be excluded from the law and the right to carry out market surveillance over recreational vessels, on-going recreational craft and on-going components of their ships. Once again, the concept of market surveillance includes, above all, the safety components of the ship. The last important point, which was also discussed in the Commission, was the clarification of the assembly of recreational craft, i.e. the list of components, and again from the point of view of maritime safety. For example, the draft inserts a clause into the law that one of the components of a recreational craft must be equipped with a device to protect against ignition at the location of the internal engine, the petrol-powered outboard engine and the petrol tank. There must also be an external engine starter blocking device. These are the new components that a recreational craft must have, above all, with a view to maritime safety and safety. The final clarification is that these requirements will also apply to jet skis with the same draft. So far, the jet skis were off that list. At its meeting on 11 January, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 20 January 2016 and that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 3 February 2016 at 17.00. All the decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U188	Thank you. You have questions too. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Good speaker! The recreational craft is a vessel of 2.4.24 metres in length. Did you also discuss how useful it is to impose a requirement on recreational craft, which are essentially boats, that there should be a device to protect against ignition? How many such small ships do we have in the register and how much obligation does this require for their owners? I understand that without this device, they can no longer go to sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U190	Thank you, Mr. Asker! I admit that there was no such debate at the committee meeting. At the same time, there are exceptions to this bill for recreational craft. For example, in the case of a safety investigation, it has been stated that this is not the case for recreational craft of less than 15 metres in length. If any accident happens to them, it's more the competence of the Maritime Administration. However, as regards whether they must have such equipment, it does not really matter whether it is a small ship or a large one. If the lack of these components could cause accidents at sea, it doesn't matter if there are one or ten people on it, it's still a dangerous case. The purpose of this draft is to minimise the risk of maritime accidents. In that sense, this device is inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U191	Thank you. Now you really have no further questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 128. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 128 amendments. 3 February at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U192	Let's keep going. Today's seventh item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act and the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the procedure of the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act and the Product Compliance Act. The aim of the draft is to bring the regulation of radio equipment into line with the new radio equipment directive, which is due to be transposed by 13 June 2016. The main changes to the draft are, firstly, the extension of the definition of radio equipment, harmonisation of product requirements and the development of essential requirements for radio equipment. The new definition of radio equipment will cover all radio transmission and reception equipment for civil use. The term will cover radio reception equipment, such as TV and radio receivers, as well as electronic equipment with a radio module, such as vacuum cleaners and refrigerators, when their operation can be controlled by radio. The Radio Equipment Directive no longer covers telecommunications terminal equipment such as landline telephones and fax machines. The extension of the definition shall take account of manufacturers of radio equipment, their authorised representatives, importers and distributors. Secondly, conformity assessment procedures and procedures for placing on the market and market surveillance are harmonised with other internal market legislation. As a result of the harmonisation of requirements, the administrative burden on economic operators will be reduced. Both the manufacture and placing on the market of products must be governed by the Product Conformity Act. Thirdly, additional requirements are introduced for interoperability between radio equipment and equipment, such as the production of uniform chargers for mobile phones and tablets. This will make it easier for consumers to use equipment and will save the environment by reducing unnecessary waste generation and costs. Fourthly, requirements are made for the compatibility of radio equipment with its software. In the case of some radio equipment, the addition or modification of software may affect the conformity of the equipment. The compatibility requirement shall ensure that the user is able to upload the software to the device only if it does not result in misleading against the essential requirements. The need to ensure the compatibility of radio equipment with the software that controls the equipment exists as more and more radio equipment is placed on the market, the essential characteristics of which can be controlled by software that requires continuous renewal. Fifth, as from 12 June 2018, certain radio equipment must be registered in the European Commission's Central System before being placed on the market. In particular, those products are those where the manufacturer does not fully comply with the requirements for radio equipment. The European Commission will decide which equipment needs to be registered precisely once it has analysed the reports of the market surveillance authorities of the Member States. I would like to support the decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs and to conclude the first reading of the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U194	Thank you. Minister, there are no questions for you. Now I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on Monday, 11 January. Mr Mart Laas, Deputy Head of Communication Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, explained the draft law. Since the content is quite technical and concerns the European Union Directive, there was no very lively debate about it. It was decided, by consensus, to propose that the draft law be put on the agenda for the plenary session on 20 January, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 3 February 2016 at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U196	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you either. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft 130 be completed. Reading complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 130 amendments. a 3 February at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U197	Today's eighth item is the first reading of Bill 146 on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws, increasing the fine unit. The rapporteur is Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U198	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws relating thereto, increasing the unit of fines. The essence of the proposal is to ensure compliance by means of a criminal policy. We were scheduled to increase the daily penalty rate for crimes from 1 January 2015 onwards. A strange situation in which the penalty rates for crimes and misdemeanours differed. This situation was strange because the daily penalty rate for misdemeanours was higher than for crimes. The daily penalty for offences was EUR 4 and EUR 3,2 for crimes. In fact, this fine unit rate remained unchanged for almost half of the generation, or 15 years. During the revision of the Penal Code, a first step was taken, i.e. the daily penalty for crimes was increased. This was raised because the purpose of the penal policy is to influence persons who violate a socially agreed standard by a sanction imposed by the legislator in such a way that they refrain from any action. The penalties must be sufficiently sensitive, i.e. have a real effect on people. In the case of crimes covered by the Penal Code, it must be acknowledged, however, that sanctions in the form of financial penalties had clearly lost their meaning in 15 years of rising cost of living. The government has now planned a second step towards increasing the financial penalties for misdemeanours. The plan is to increase the daily rate less than for crimes, which is a clear political choice. If, before the amendments to the Penal Code revision of 1 January 2015 entered into force, the penalty policy option was reversed, i.e. in the case of misdemeanours, the daily penalty rate was higher than in the case of crimes, then I now believe that things will be placed in the right proportion. In addition to the general and penal code and the model for increasing the daily rate provided for in other laws sanctioning misconduct, the government has designed a number of differences with this draft. I highlight the most important of those which consist in the fact that specific cases are dealt with either on a personal basis or on a case-by-case basis in relation to the increase in the daily penalty rate for a general misdemeanour. First of all, the law creates a speciality for a minor. The maximum amount of the fine to be understood by the minor shall be half the maximum amount of the sanction. For example, if the law provides for a fine of up to 100 fine units, a minor can understand a maximum of 50 fine units. Punishment policy is primarily due to the fact that a large proportion of fines are imposed on minors for so-called'status offences', such as smoking or riding a bike without wearing a helmet. In the case of statutory offences, the overall objective is to implement more diverse criminal policy measures in order to prevent minors from taking such action in the future. And since, in many cases involving minors, the financial penalty is actually passed on to the person exercising parental rights who will pay the fine, the financial penalty will not have as much weight in the future as in the case of other misdemeanours. Secondly, it is important that the minimum fine rate is abolished. Currently, the minimum rate is 13 fine units, i.e. 12 euros. According to the amendment, the minimum fine would be one fine unit, i.e. EUR 8. This means that the minimum sanction rate will be reduced. The next measure is of such a practical nature. This concerns the real ability of those who have been given a financial penalty to comply with this sentence and is that the deadline for payment of the fine is extended. The current system is such that within 15 days of receipt of the decision the person must pay the fine. According to the draft, it is proposed to extend this period to 45 days. This has been done for a very simple reason. People usually have periodic, monthly incomes. Therefore, the logic is that if a person lives from pay to pension in terms of subsistence to pay, or from pension to pension, the day of income should also be included in this one month period. The next principle to be introduced by this draft is that a person must be introduced into the right to apply for a financial penalty in part. Under current law, there is an opportunity to divide the penalty into one year, but the fact is that in very many cases people are not aware of it. Therefore, in view of the increase in the fine rates, it is certainly relevant and reasonable for the parties to be informed of this possibility. A separate increase in the fine rate is foreseen in the Traffic Act for a speeding-up penalty, i.e. a so-called traffic camera fine. So far, the basis for calculating the warning fine was the formula whereby the number of kilometres, the speed of which had been exceeded, was multiplied by three, i.e. when you exceeded five kilometres, the fine was EUR 15. According to the draft, this formula changes, i.e. the number of kilometres must be multiplied by five. The next amendment relates to the fact that, if we look at, in a large way, which acts in Estonia have been the subject of misdemeanours, which are the so-called most popular misdemeanours, then unfortunately the most common misdemeanour is speeding. This is followed by an anti-asset offence against a low value and property right, i.e. the theft of a small item of financial value. The third place is the drive without a document certifying the right to drive. Here, the government has offered not to increase this penalty rate due to the increase in daily fines, and the proposal is to keep it at the same level. If, at present, a maximum of 10 fine units can be understood for a ticketless journey, the draft would be five fine units, which would actually achieve the same result. This is a serious matter. This was not worked out for the step that we are taking, but I think it is a discussion about whether a ticketless journey, which is in fact a violation of a civil contract, obliges a carrier to carry someone for some money and a person is in breach of a 'contractual relationship' if he does not pay for this service, should not be civilly regulated, so far as it falls within the scope of criminal law regulation at all. But that's a separate problem. The draft under discussion has also mentioned whether these measures could lead to a significant tightening of criminal policy, since the fine is one possible result of misdemeanour proceedings among others. Here I would like to stress that since the spring of this year, an amendment to the Misdemeanour Procedure Act entered into force, allowing the minor act to be left out of procedure and to limit itself to an oral warning. The same amendment specified the possibility of ending the consideration of the appropriateness of a misdemeanour procedure if the person is not guilty of serious misconduct and there is no public interest in proceeding further. There was no such opportunity before. It must be acknowledged that, as far as the amount of the fine units are concerned, there is a considerable margin of discretion for the out-of-court court to impose the penalty, i.e. those who have to take into account the person's sensitivity to the penalty, the state of his livelihood, the extent to which the specific financial penalty has an impact. Now the question of what the effects of this amendment on the receipt of fines could be. Here the opinion has come out as if the government is pursuing a very heavy gold burden or a high financial income to fill the state budget with this step. Of course, it has financial implications, but I can assure you that the purpose of the draft is clearly and unambiguously still of a punitive nature. Let's see what, according to the analysis by the Ministry of Justice of crimes, the real impact of the tripling of the daily rate from EUR 3.2 to EUR 10 was on the increase in the amounts of the financial penalty. The analysis was based on financial penalties for drunken driving in the first quarter of 2015 and in the autumn of 2014. The analysis showed that the tripled of the financial penalty rates for criminal offences resulted in an average increase of 13% in the amount of the financial penalty. The parties to the proceedings also took into account other alternatives to the penalty. It should be stressed here that the percentage of financial penalties decreased from 20% to 15% compared to 2014. In fact, the trend was that the level of financial penalties for criminal offences was reduced in terms of increasing fines. Ultimately, it must be acknowledged that this draft has proposed a number of proposals with punitive content. There was one fact which was also analysed in the preparation of this draft. In particular, it was considered whether Estonia could fully switch to the principle that actual income is taken into account when determining the financial penalty for misdemeanours, i.e. the person's income is recognised and then the daily rate is applied. It has to be acknowledged that as a theoretical construction, it is conceivable in different countries to use this model differently, but after analysis we decided to abandon this model. Firstly, it would make the misdemeanour procedure slower, as it certainly requires a very high level of logistical activity in relation to income recognition, calculation and database management. Secondly, it must be acknowledged that if we look at the logic of the daily rate that is now the basis, it would paradoxically hit the wallet of the middle and low-income people. For example, if we count an average salary of approximately 18 euros per day's income, it would actually be significantly higher than the 8 euros per day's income proposed in the draft. It would therefore be possible to implement or discuss this model as a political or ideological choice, if we were to review all the 150 laws on fines. However, this would already be a major reform or a reform with a long-term impact. This is a brief introduction to the amendment to the Penal Code. I would like to emphasise once again what I have started with: fines do not have an economic policy or a public revenue policy objective; fines are aimed at the legitimate conduct of society. The aim is also to ensure that society is more effectively guaranteed to refrain from misdemeanours considered by Parliament to be sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U199	Thank you. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a purely mathematical question concerning the first paragraph of page 11 of the explanatory memorandum. This example is based on an average gross monthly wage of EUR 1005. It's gonna be clean, or net income is 792,43. To see what the net annual income is, it is multiplied by 12 and receives EUR 9504. The final goal is to get an average daily income of 9504 divided by 400. However, there are 365 days a year. Is there 400 days on the Justice Department calendar, or do I misunderstand something?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U201	Thank you. We follow the Gregorian calendar, which is generally the basis of the Estonian legal order. However, as far as this point is concerned, it is actually a debate on one of the policy options, one of the alternatives, which has not been put forward in this draft as a legal proposal. As far as specific figures are concerned, the construction of how possible income is taken into account is analogous to how daily income is detected for crimes. The government has presented a draft based on the fact that the figures in the explanatory memorandum are mathematically correct, but the people submitting the drafts, and I do not rule out that there may be numerical errors in this analysis. But it requires control.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U202	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum states that for some 15 years no penalty rates have been fixed, the amount of the unit of fines has not been changed. In terms of information, would you say how the amount of the fine unit will pre-emptively affect people's behaviour and how it will improve the behaviour of speediers, for example, in traffic? Have such studies been carried out? You referred briefly to possible effects, but maybe some research has been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U204	The issue of impacts is very important in penal policy. I have to admit that, in the case of different types of unlawful behaviour or profiling, these effects are different. If we take a group such as relapsed drunk drivers, the analysis shows that raising financial sanctions, including the confiscation of cars, has not really had an impact on the behaviour profile of these people. If a person's social attitude is already completely autistic and unable to respond adequately, we will see that the penalties chosen for relapsed drunk drivers, the 'toolbox', which is first and foremost expressed in practice either as a financial penalty or as a conditional penalty, have not been effective. Consequently, this toolbox needs to be diversified. I think there could be a model for a shock vagination. Now, the second question is whether the financial penalty in general has an effect that promotes acquittal behaviour, then, of course, that effect exists. Otherwise, the whole philosophy of financial punishment or the philosophy of any punishment would become very conditional. It is a fact that the same question of sensitivity to punishment is very important in penal policy. A person must perceive punishment in the event of an unlawful act; the punishment must have a real effect. If he is to be punished for any unlawful act, it must affect him in the future or refrain from doing so at all, so that he will no longer do so. Of course, people's unlawful conduct has many motivations. People behave differently. But the fact is, there is also an opposite effect. Figuratively speaking, if the minimum wage in Estonia has risen four times in 15 years and the penalty rate has remained the same, then it is clear that the sensitivity to punishment has decreased. That's pretty clear. What do we do now? I am convinced that, in the case of both financial penalties and financial penalties, the policy must be conservative. If we take one step now, I certainly think that, in the coming years, hopefully, there will be no hyperinflation in Estonia, as in some Latin American countries, this policy could remain stable, as it has been put in place. Whether we are going to change it in five or ten years' time, it is already such a matter of penal policy, and I think that this depends on how much the sensitivity to punishment can simply disappear in relation to some activities relating to income and the increase in the cost of living.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U205	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U206	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! A quick look would say that the material that is distributed at the back of this hall is slightly different from what you are reporting here today. But maybe there are other problems. This version, which I have, claims that this law could enter into force on 1 March. Here are some questions on the financial side. What are the levels of fines that the State will not obtain as a result of, for example, the expiry? Would this proposal give rise to the implementation of this year's budget and the ratio of fines to budget implementation at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U207	Thank you. The time of entry into force will undoubtedly depend on the pace and how Parliament intends to adopt the draft. I think that, since this still concerns a very large number of practitioners in society, as well as the so-called obliged subjects to be punished, there would be no point in enforcing the law in general terms, i.e. two weeks after publication in the State's Official Journal. If you look at the working schedule, you will have to deal with the partnership law and other matters. So the Committee on Legal Affairs must discuss this deadline and it makes sense to find a fixed date point. This March 1st, I admit, may not be realistic. As regards the hypothetical amount of the fine that could be received in a given financial year if this amendment were implemented, it depends on the date of entry into force. It is now assumed that the law will enter into force on 1 March. If you look at the modeling in which we were based on financial penalties for crimes, you could expect an increase in the amount of fines of 10 to 30%, which would be in the order of 1.1 million euros from the date of receipt of the fines imposed by the PBGB. But I have to admit, this is an estimated position. Since the assumption is that people's behaviour should become more legitimate, the imposition of financial penalties could therefore also change. In addition, I would like to point out that a number of measures are being taken that actually affect the sensitivity to punishment. As a result of this financial penalty, depending on both the individual and the specific work, we will not really double the question of the same bus bunny, for example, which could certainly be smaller. So hopefully, people will behave more obediently. As far as financial penalties are concerned, on page 33 of the explanatory memorandum, the fines imposed by the Police and Border Guard Board, how many have been scheduled and how many have been received. I'm not going to read this directory separately, but we can see that the country's ability to plan fines has been quite different over the years. While 80% of the estimated amount of the fine was received in 2010 and slightly more in some years, only 46% was received in 2015. In the case of fines, we are talking about an amount of EUR 10 million, which is even due. If, in the case of criminal offences, the increase in the proceeds resulting from the rise in the fine rate is hypothetically 13%, then I think that this order of magnitude could also be the case in the case of fraud fines. In answer to the question of how many claims a country has against persons who do not comply with financial penalties, the whole portfolio of claims is, of course, extensive. The mechanism is that if a person fails to comply with a financial penalty, no matter how small the amount is, the court will be able to apply other procedural options, such as detention, community service, etc. These opportunities will be practiced by the courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U208	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U209	Mr. Minister! The essence of my question is, in fact, a remark. If your story hadn't taken a verbatim, I would have talked to you alone. However, in your report and probably in your knowledge, you are completely confusing two different things: one is the daily penalty rate and the other is the unit of fines. There is nothing in common between them but the fact that both are paid in money. The daily rate means that a person who receives ten times more wages than any other person will pay ten times more for the corresponding unit of punishment. Fine rates are a whole different matter, they're fixed in size. Of course, they can also be compared, but basically, the draft that has been submitted to us is only about fine units and not about daily rates. That is why I have this question for you: if those people in the ministry who have the task of preparing the Minister for such a presentation have left their work completely unfinished, as it is now, and are now submitting a resignation, will you satisfy it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U210	Thank you, Honourable Asker, for such a crisp question. I have to admit, the officials have informed me. I guess it's my fault that I was expressing myself to a good questioner whose legal knowledge I have no doubt about, confusedly. Of course, these are different concepts. Why did I think it was possible to create an analogy and use this design? In particular, there is a minimum threshold for a financial penalty below which no matter what person's income can be determined. And this minimum threshold is ten euros. This analogy of penalty units is undoubtedly there, and the penalty unit, which concerns the calculation of income in the event of misdemeanours, is scheduled to be increased twice. So the right thing is that crimes take into account the person's actual income up to the minimum threshold. And today, when we're talking about the daily penalty rate, that was the analogy I used. I'm sorry for expressing myself insanely!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U211	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm probably guilty myself, so I asked the question too complicated. I'm just trying to make it a little easier. For example, if an official produces 730 documents during the year, his average daily productivity is the same as 730 divided by 365 days per year. You will find an example in the explanatory memorandum where you are looking for an average daily income. More or less correctly, the net income for the whole year is calculated. After that, you need to divide it by 365. I asked you why it's 400 days instead of 365. What calendar are these 400 days, 12 months? In fact, the whole calculation is already very flawed and wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U213	Thank you. As I said, the part of the explanatory memorandum relating to the identification of a person's daily income in the case of financial penalties has been drawn up by analogy. I can assure you that the Government of the Republic was guided by the principles of the Gregorian calendar when presenting this bill, and I have no intention of calling it into question. If a good questioner has found a substantive error in a calculation, which I do not rule out at all, then I ask the officials to provide the Committee on Legal Affairs with additional information to correct the error so that Parliament does not make erroneous choices in further proceedings. If there is such a mistake, I would like to express my thanks to the questioner for being so attentively and thoroughly familiar with the extensive explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U214	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U215	Thank you, manager. Good minister! You have come up with quite an interesting proposal, which is to change the amount of a fine for people under 18 years of age. Where does the age of 18 come from? The Riigikogu has already granted 16-year-olds the right to vote, and it has placed all obligations and responsibilities on 16-year-olds. Where's that 18 coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U216	Thank you. It's actually coming from the capacity limit, and it's not coming from anywhere else. The fact that persons who do not have full capacity have the right to vote in municipal elections was an ideological choice made by the legislator. Among other things, one argument in making this decision was that the voters of the Congress of Estonia were given a similar, very revolutionary right in Europe at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U217	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U218	Mr. Minister! I'm sorry to say that you obviously didn't understand what you were messing with, but I'm happy to explain this privately. Here's my question. This fine unit has been unchanged since 2002 and the idea is that as wealth increases or the value of money decreases, it is increased every few years. There has been no increase for 13 years; in the meantime, no Minister for Justice, no Minister for the Interior or any Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs has initiated it. Why the disastrous failure of a public official to comply with his obligations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U219	Thank you. I'll start from the back, with the question of why it's now being dealt with. The answer is very simple. On 1 January 2015, the amendment resulting from the general revision of the Penal Code, which corrected the minimum threshold for financial penalties for criminal offences, entered into force. Why wasn't it done before? In itself, these matters can be resolved differently. I certainly do not consider it reasonable to make penal policy rules, given their importance in society, people perceive them, they are predictable, somehow floating in size. Figuratively speaking, when our average wages fell during the recession, the fines also dropped a speck and then started going uphill every year again. It is probably reasonable to make some adjustments here periodically, but I think that the longer this period is, the more reasonable it will be if there are no exceptional changes affecting the overall economy and society's livelihood. Why has this change not been made in 13 years? Probably because the stability of sanctions was valued. However, it is a fact that, over this period of valorisation, with regard to our convergence in the European economic environment, the cost of living, as well as the income of individuals, has increased considerably over half a generation, as I said, over time. Nothing like this has happened in more stable legal environments in the past. But, of course, this change could have been made earlier, there is a short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U220	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U221	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! As you know, within the government's programme of action, we have to link fines to the real income of the perpetrator. You talked about it, and the explanatory memorandum also says that this subject needs further, more in-depth evaluation in the future. Can you predict or, looking at the Ministry's action plan, tell us when the substantive analysis of the applicability of this plan and of the technical and legal problems could reach the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U222	Thank you. This more in-depth analysis will certainly come, but it is indeed not in the work programme for the current year. Punishment priorities are currently linked to the subject of the review of criminal proceedings, where the Ministry's expertise and resources are primarily concentrated. As I said, it is such a fundamental political choice of punishment. This can be done, there are countries where this has been done. I think that the analogous example that is always presented in Estonia is the Finnish model. In Finland, this applies not in all cases, but in certain misdemeanours. The Ministry will take this analysis into account in their work plan. We believe that this analysis is necessary and we consider it appropriate to do so, but not in the current year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U223	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U224	Thank you. Mr. Minister for Justice. Do local authorities also enjoy our adoption of these amendments to the Penal Code in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U225	I would say that local authorities, of course, have a bearing on certain fines where local government officials are involved. I think that the interest of all local governments is the rightful behaviour of individuals, and on this point I hope that the municipalities will, of course, be happy. After all, many misdemeanours affect the local community, people's activities in the local community. I'd say the general attitude could really be sympathetic, optimistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U226	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The representatives of the Free Party consulted each other here, and we still did not understand whether this money from fines is now coming into this year's budget. What about the money movement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U228	I'm sorry if I didn't answer the question exactly. The fine imposed on the person is, of course, entered into the current annual budget and is the current revenue of the State. If the fine is not paid this year, the money will be paid into the budget for the following year. That's the cycle. People pay last year's fines.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U229	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Raivo Aeg, Member of the Legal Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, will now be presented. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U230	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the law amending the Penal Code and related other laws, increasing the unit of fines, at its meeting on 11 January. a. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Einar Hillep, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, were invited to the debate on the draft. In general, we have already received a very thorough report from the Minister on the draft here. It is, therefore, an amendment to four laws, such as the Penal Code, the Traffic Act, the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the Public Transport Act. There is obviously no point in going over all the changes here again, because, as I said, the previous speaker has already given a very thorough overview of them. I can confirm that the Commission also received an in-depth review, but it was perhaps even more meaningful and more comprehensive in the Chamber. A few questions were also raised in the Commission. Firstly, whether the increase in the unit of fines by half is not too rapid, too steep or too extensive. The answer was the same arguments as here: the amount of the fine unit has long stood at the same place, but life has changed considerably, as well as people's incomes, the cost of living, etc. The joint view was that this increase would probably be justified. It was also a question for the Minister that if the penalty for driving on the tram, on the trolley and on the bus remains the same as today, what about the tickets for the ship. During the debate, it was considered that the issue of shipping tickets was relatively marginal. As a general rule, the shipping companies and companies themselves ensure that rabbits do not board the ship, which is why this issue does not deserve a more thorough approach. That concludes the debate broadly. The Commission found that it was possible to proceed with the draft. Consensual procedural decisions were taken: to send the draft to the first reading of the Chamber, to close the first reading and to appoint Raivo Time as rapporteur on behalf of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U231	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U232	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Minister or the Commission to take some positions for a second reading. Let's finish this joke! In the example of the explanatory memorandum, the average daily income is indeed sought by dividing a certain amount by a net income of 400. The question is not whether it is Julius' calendar or Gregory's calendar in both calendars is 365 days. Does anyone want to argue with that? What's it about? It's about someone writing at the Ministry, but they didn't check. The explanatory memorandum was probably not read by the Minister and probably was not read by the Commission either. What laws do we adopt? Or is this the new Estonian Nokia was 400 days a year? That's another thing. Every bill must have some logic. You are telling me, Mr Minister, or rather the Ministry, that, in relation to income growth and inflation, the levels of penalties with financial implications must also be reviewed on an ongoing basis so that they do not become devalued over time due to the rise in the cost of living and other such factors. Logic is that the cost of living is increasing, real income is decreasing, and if this real income decreases, then you need to increase the fine. In my opinion, if there is such a process, there is more than enough of an old fine. Why lift it now? One place in the explanatory memorandum tells us that devalues, devalues, does not work. But what do I read at the end? At the end of the day, I'm going to read an interesting thing. I can't find this place so quickly right now, but for those who have read the explanatory statement, there is a passage that says that it is not worth waiting for any drastic rise in the fine. As fines increase, the number of people who simply delay or refuse to pay increases. Hey, is that the first or the second argument right? Both arguments cannot be correct at the same time. And, of course, the Committee on Legal Affairs, I will not fail to ask, at the next reading I would certainly like to hear this again about the Julius or Gregorian calendar. Do we have 365 days on the calendar or 400 days? Report, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U233	Thank you. I ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U234	Mr President! My colleagues in the Free Party Group gave me an opportunity to talk a little bit about this issue, because the confusion here is really not just in the Minister's report. It seems that the authors of the draft explanatory memorandum have either not understood what they are writing about, or that different texts have been combined as a result of the use of copy-paste, and there have been inconsistencies. How do I know this thing? I know because the current Penal Code was adopted by the IX Riigikogu, where I was chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee. The Head of the Secretariat of the Commission at the time is also currently Head of the Secretariat of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Raini Laide, currently sitting at the back of the Chamber. I think he can nod at anything I say here or shake his head if something's wrong. At the time, more than 13 years ago, the Penal Code introduced various systems of financial punishment. There is one such fast system, which is used to punish wrongdoing, and it is called a system of fine units. The policeman who imposes such a penalty can only individually determine the amount of the fine by assigning a different number of fine units within the limits allowed by law, from the lower limit to the upper limit. And there's another system that's double individualized. It's a penalty based on the daily penalty rates. The judge shall first decide how many daily rates he must determine depending on the amount of the offence, but the specific daily rate shall be calculated on the person responsible's income. Originally, it was designed to have the size of the average daily income that this person has. How now it's replaced by sharing an annual income of 400, I don't know. I was not in the Riigikogu in the meantime and I do not know whether this is the case or not and whether it is rational. There is no connection between these two things, and I very much ask that the Minister in the future, Mrs. Laid in the back, does not shake her head in two terms, a fine unit and a daily rate. Those are two different things. In the case of fine units, the initial idea was that as the value of money decreases relatively quickly in Estonia today, so that the codes and sections should not be amended every few years, rather than changed the number sizes of these penalties. It was taken as a basis that there is a precept, and its size is stated in one law. The notional amount was initially EEK 60, which was subsequently converted into EUR 4. This should then have been constantly changed depending on the degree of our wealth or the loss of value of money. Now 13 years have been missed, and I fully understand that a change is needed. The current situation has probably driven all our policemen mad: the act for which 10 fine units will be imposed this year will have to be set at 12 in the coming year and 14 in the following year. This is not a reasonable way. Finally, there's another subject. When we discussed the preparation of the Penal Code in the Riigikogu at the time, the ministers and policy makers of the then Estonian state promised that in the future the cash penalties would be paid to the state's income in such a way that it would never be the income line of the current year in the state budget. Looks like it didn't go that way in the intervening years. Why, I don't know. There is a great deal of confusion among government officials. I have asked whether or not this is the case, either myself or with the involvement of a group, to the three ministers. The Minister of Justice says yes, the money comes into the country's income this year. Someone from the ministers said he doesn't know what it's like. One, I don't remember exactly who it was, claimed it wasn't coming. Whatever it is, I call on everyone, both the opposition and the coalition, to support this principle that punishing bodies, especially the police, must never be put in a position where they must comply with the state budget plan for the current year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U235	Thank you. I ask Mr Andres Anvelt, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U236	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking for three more minutes now!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U237	Yes, please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U238	I would like to look at this bill on a small nuance, on which you could also read in the explanatory memorandum, which the Ministry of Justice has promised to conduct a thorough, detailed analysis and what is stated in the government programme. In itself, I agree with all previous speakers that the exponential rise of 13 years' basically the same amount of fine may cause the eyebrow to rise, but on the other hand, it is necessary to keep up with the times. Yes, I also think that all these intermediate years should have gone in the same direction as the other ups, both the cost of living and the increase in the minimum wage. Considering what the minimum wage was in 2002, the difference is not double, but triple. So today's bill is a logical step in every way. But, unfortunately, there are many buts here for me. Unfortunately, a tangible increase in the amount of fines does not fully fulfil one of the fundamental objectives of penalising: improving people's compliance with the law and preventing further infringements. In fact, there is a big difference between the EUR 300 fine being imposed on, for example, the unemployed, the low-paid, the single mother or the ten middle-earned CEO, the dividend millionaire. The latter may not be paying much attention to this sum of EUR 300. And as the media has joked, such a small fine for some is like a ticket for the next offense, especially in traffic. Therefore, it is still not possible to talk about penal law if the effect of the fine is different for people with different incomes. There is also certainly reason to argue whether the proposed increase in fines is not unfairly high for people earning average wages. That, too, has been the subject. The gravity and the amount of the fine should still be proportionate. And the coin also has a different side, either in this way the proportion of state claims, and thus the working field of bailiffs, will not grow exponentially. A somewhat different situation, however, would result in the application of fair fines in principle, where the fine is calculated on the basis of a person's income. A lower unit of fines would continue to depend on the minimum wage, but the amount of the fine would also increase as income increases. In that case, the sentence imposed would make it necessary to reflect on the conduct of both the recipient of the minimum wage and the high-wage worker. The aim is not to bankrupt someone, but to reduce offences. Such a system would motivate people to be more law-abiding and would be likely to help solve those problems related to relapsed behaviour, for example in the case of traffic offences. The amount of the unit of fines can be calculated on the basis of the person's previous year's income, and if it has changed drastically in the meantime, the person has an obligation and opportunity to prove it in court. Specific provisions should certainly be laid down for minors, pensioners and other people with limited income. At present, this has been the case, for example, with financial penalties for criminal offences. And, as the Minister said above, fair fines, as I call them, are certainly not the invention of a bicycle, because an analogous approach is used in a number of European countries. When Finland was mentioned in neighbouring countries, Sweden, Denmark, Germany and Switzerland should certainly be added. Everywhere, however, there is a system that allows account to be taken of the particular nature of the person when imposing the fine. In Denmark, for example, it has been so far since that when a person is fined for drink driving, his promill is multiplied by a month's income. One promill can equal a person's entire monthly salary. It is understandable that driving a drunk would be followed by an effective fine. It's not like if there's money, it's gonna be paid a couple hundred euros, and sometimes it's gonna be a proud drive again, putting other people's lives at risk. Nor do many think that the administration of fines would be very difficult and bureaucracy would be much more. We call ourselves an exemplary e-state and we are an e-state, which is why the incomes of people declared in the Tax and Customs Board should in no way be regarded as an insurmountable IT problem. While many other countries can do the same without special IT solutions, it should be easier to switch to a new system in Estonia. Ultimately, I would like to say that I am still pleased that this concept of fines is enshrined in our coalition agreement. I believe that the Ministry of Justice will continue to analyse this approach and develop an appropriate penalty system. I am sure that this approach to fines and fines would improve people's legal compliance. At the same time, some brazen heads would be much more affected by the speeding fine and could not look at it as a day ticket, which allows them to press the gas. Reach out to the Ministry of Justice to find solutions to this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U239	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U240	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna go over the other people's stories. I'm just gonna read a few lines in the explanatory memorandum. In 2012, 1464 people applied for their fine to be replaced by work or other punishment. This figure was already 3410 in 2013 and 5910 in 2014. There is not yet a definitive figure for 2015, but there were more than 6,000 applications according to the data available to date. At the current level of fines, the number of people who are unable to pay the fine almost doubles every year, and now they want to increase these rates further. In this context, the Conservative People's Party Group proposes to reject the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U241	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 146. However, it has also come to the Bureau to reject the Conservative People's Party's Group's proposal 146 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party 146 to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 18 votes against 33, no abstentions were found to support the proposal. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 146 amendments. 1 p.m. on January 27, 2004. The eighth item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U242	Let us move on to the next item on the agenda. The ninth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U243	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government has submitted a draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act to transpose the European Union Directive on consumer credit agreements relating to residential immovable property. The idea of this directive is very sensible and rational. In particular, the directive concerns consumer credit agreements whereby people provide their housing as collateral for loans. We have seen a great many people in the face of job losses in the face of the European financial crisis, failing to cope with economic problems. People have also lost their homes when they have taken consumer credit. We see problems that have occurred in Estonia in the so-called SMS credit market, and we have tried to solve them in Estonia. Topics relating to residential immovable property have not been regulated in the European Union in the past, but now, above all, on the basis of consumer rights, there are plans to enforce certain safeguard clauses for residents of all Member States across the European Union. So what are they? First of all, it provides that creditors are to provide information on the consumer credit agreement relating to residential immovable property to those undertakings that grant loans to people. This general information must be available electronically at any time free of charge and give consumers a simple idea of the nature and conditions of credit products. Secondly, lenders must provide the consumer with more comprehensive personalised information prior to the conclusion of the contract. A person must be clearly aware of the consequences of taking, figuratively speaking, an SMS loan or some other type of consumer credit, pawning his home or guaranteeing someone else's loan with his mortgage. Failure to comply may even lead to a loss of home. In addition, a new law will be created. At the moment, I think that, in general, there is little awareness of this in society, that people who take a SMS loan have the right to withdraw from the consumer credit agreement within 14 days without any reason. For example, a person has taken consumer credit, but then he feels that he does not really need it, for whatever reason, and can disown it within 14 days without any sanctions. According to the Estonian Law of Obligations Act, this is the case. However, this right does not yet exist in mortgage-backed consumer credit agreements. If you've made it, the clock has fallen. The amendment now also gives the right to withdraw from the agreement for a period of seven days for subjective reasons in the case of a consumer credit agreement secured by residential immovable property or mortgage. The regulation of responsible lending will also be clarified. As stated in the Creditors and Credit Intermediaries Act, it is now clearly stated that a credit agreement can be concluded if the consumer is creditworthy. If this rule is not complied with, the 'contractual sanction' follows the creditor. In particular, if the loan is granted to a person who is not solvent under reasonable circumstances, the contractual interest rate will then fall to the statutory interest rate. It is a 'theoretical' design and means that it is essentially a symbolic interest rate. For example, in the second half of last year, the legal interest rate was 0.05%. This means that if a creditor knowingly lends a loan under the guarantee of residential property to people who do not actually pass a'reasonable credit test', acting irresponsiblely and people's homes are thereby put at risk, then the penalty is that the creditor receives interest because of a breach of the rule, essentially only at a statutory rate, which is, as I said, very low. The Law of Obligations Act establishes a separate advisory services institute, the subject of which is to give a specific recommendation to the consumer on the most suitable credit offer for residential immovable property. This service is provided on a voluntary basis. In order to protect consumer rights, the principle that it is prohibited to make the conclusion of a consumer credit agreement relating to residential immovable property conditional on the conclusion of a second financial service contract in such a way that it is not possible to conclude a consumer credit agreement relating to residential immovable property on a stand-alone basis. This means that if there is a "package" offer where the consumer is indisputably vulnerable, i.e. the weaker side of the transaction, he can be protected. A package in which an additional credit agreement should be concluded in order to obtain credit for residential immovable property cannot be drawn up. In addition, some further clarifications are made concerning the supervision of creditors and credit intermediaries and how the advertising of consumer credit agreements relating to residential immovable property is regulated. Market participants also raised a number of questions when dealing with this draft. The Consumer Protection Board had a question about the consumer's right to withdraw from a consumer credit agreement relating to residential real estate. Their proposal was that this period could be extended from 7 to 14 days. However, in drawing up the draft law, we were based on the fact that, when a mortgage-backed credit agreement is concluded and the notary gives advice, it is more in-depth information than simply taking a SMS loan or a consumer credit. The minimum withdrawal period resulting from the Directive, i.e. seven days, could therefore be maintained. But it is a question of Parliament's political choice. Creditors were clearly not enthusiastic about the statutory interest rate. The directive does not say that it must necessarily be a legitimate interest rate. The Directive states that Member States must lay down rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions adopted pursuant to that Directive. This mechanism, which we have come up with, favours the consumer and ensures that, on the basis of rational market logic, creditors are also motivated to refrain from irresponsible lending to insolvent people in a situation where people may lose their homes. There was also a practical issue related to the information system for informing consumers before the contract. The Banking Association requested a longer transitional period. It is currently foreseen that the law should enter into force on 21 March 2016. In the interests of certain market participants, we provided for the ESIS to enter into force a little later, on 1 July. a. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U244	Minister, there are no questions for you. Thank you. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U245	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the first reading of draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and related amendments to other laws at the meeting of 11 November 2016, attended by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, Indrek Niklus, Head of the Private Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Kristiina Koll, adviser to the same service. The Minister explained that the purpose of the draft is to transpose into national law a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on consumer credit agreements relating to residential immovable property. The amendments introduced by the Directive concern, in particular, housing loans. Taking housing loans is probably one of the most important financial decisions for most consumers, which most people make once or twice in their lives. Compared to other consumer loans, consumers commit themselves to a much higher financial obligation in the case of housing loans for a much longer period of time and generally provide housing purchased for the loan as collateral. These specificities and the specific risks associated with housing loans, in particular the possibility that a consumer's home might be lost in the event of default, have led to the need to establish a specific consumer protection regulation for housing loans. In Estonia, with few exceptions to mortgage-backed housing loans, the general Law of Obligations Act has applied consumer credit regulation. It is largely based on the Consumer Credit Directive, the scope of which has been voluntarily extended to mortgage-backed consumer credit agreements in Estonia. For housing loans, no harmonised regulation at EU level has been foreseen so far, which in turn means that this regulation is fragmented in different countries. The main objective of the new directive is to harmonise the regulation of consumer credit agreements relating to residential immovable property in the European Union and to ensure the necessary consumer protection in this area. Regulation in this area at EU level is justified by the fact that many of the problems encountered during the financial crisis, including over-indebtedness, are not only specific to individual Member States, but are similar in many Member States. According to this draft, the lender is required to provide general information on the loan agreement relating to residential immovable property. The consumer must also be provided with more detailed pre-contractual information before the conclusion of the contract, so that the consumer can take the decision to award the contract as carefully as possible and in the light of all the essential aspects of the contract. The draft extends the borrower's right to withdraw from a mortgage-backed consumer credit agreement within seven days. For other consumer credit agreements, the withdrawal period shall be 14 days. The draft also clarifies the current regulation on responsible lending. It is stipulated that a loan contract may only be concluded if the consumer is creditworthy. If the bank violates due diligence in assessing the consumer's creditworthiness, the contractual interest rate will automatically decrease to the statutory interest rate, which is currently 0.05%. In addition, the consumer will be able to take other appropriate remedies against the creditor, such as claims for damages. However, the interest reduction provision does not enter into force if the bank has been informed of false information. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to submit the draft for the first reading in the Riigikogu on 20 January. a on the agenda and proposed that the first reading be closed. Mr Pikhof was appointed rapporteur by the Commission and the deadline for the amendments, as decided by the Commission, is 27 January at 5 a.m. All procedural decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U246	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 152. I will set the deadline for tabling 152 amendments. 1 p.m. on January 27, 2004. The first reading is closed and the ninth item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U247	Let us move on to the tenth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law 126 on ratification of the International Labour Convention (No 188) initiated by the Government of the Republic. I have the honour to ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I will introduce you in a row two laws on ratification of the Convention, which are closely linked in Estonia's national context. First, the draft law 126, the draft law on ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention on the Work in Fishing. The aim of the draft is to ratify the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Convention on Fishing Work. On 7 June 2010, the Council of the European Union adopted a decision on the ratification of the Fisheries Work Convention, noting that the Convention will make an important contribution to the development of the fisheries sector at international level, ensuring decent working conditions for fishermen and fairer conditions of competition for fishing vessel owners. The Fisheries Convention has not yet entered into force because it will enter into force 12 months after it has been ratified by ten ILO members, eight of which must be coastal states. To date, six countries have ratified the Convention: Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Congo, France, Morocco and South Africa. The Convention lays down minimum conditions for fishermen's accommodation, catering, safety and health, medical care and social security, and employment in connection with maritime work. The ratification of this Convention does not entail any change in national law. This is because we have brought our national law into line with the provisions of the Convention already adopted in 2014 by the Maritime Labour Act. However, as a foreign policy step, it is certainly important to ratify the Convention as well. The ratification of the Convention, making use of the resulting possibilities to introduce differences in requirements and to make standards more flexible, gives the ratified State certain supervisory advantages in its relations with the maritime authorities of port states. Under the Convention, the Maritime Administration, as the competent authority of our country, will issue a fishing work certificate confirming that the working conditions of crew members comply with the minimum requirements laid down in the Convention, and that inspections in port of the vessel will therefore take considerably less time than the fishing work certificate issued by the State which has ratified the Convention can be produced. At the same time, it is also possible to verify the compliance of ships flying the flag of a foreign country in their ports with the requirements laid down in the Convention. So it gets better and faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U249	Minister, there are questions for you, despite the fact that it is getting better and faster. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When you mentioned the countries that have ratified the Convention, I did not hear any of them from the Baltic Sea or from the Mediterranean. Did I miss it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U251	It is true that there are currently only six countries that have ratified: Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Congo, France, Morocco and South Africa. This is because national procedures take different times in each country. The Convention itself is international and ratification of international conventions and enforcement generally takes a very long time. Some countries are still ratifying the 1968 conventions. In this case, it is a convention that I know was adopted on 30 May 2007, at least that is what the text says. And that means that most countries have not yet completed ratification. Certainly, we are not the only country that follows the principle of ratification of conventions that we first bring our national law into line with the requirements of the Convention and then ratify it. We entered into force amendments to the Maritime Labour Act in 2014. There is hope that the rest of the countries will follow in the near future, including those on the Baltic Sea. No one should have anything against the ratification of this Convention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U252	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U253	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! How do you know they don't mind? They have not ratified it. Stalin said in his day that life has become more fun and better. If we also have more fun and better lives for fishermen, how much will it cost the fishermen themselves to improve these conditions? Maybe what happens is, as we often do, that a beautiful theoretical scheme is being made, but the result is that the boats with which to go to sea are being reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U254	Thank you. The boat may not be the right word here. We are still talking about large fishing vessels and crews, their accommodation and working conditions, etc. In this context, it is rather a question of agreeing on minimum international standards, precisely in these sectors, in the present case, in the fisheries sector, which has a certain international dimension. Ships move under flags from different countries, have international crews, etc. Ships go to one port and another port, so crews should have certain common social standards. The danger that some fishermen wouldn't be able to go to Lake Peipsi or to catch fish in the bay isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U255	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U256	Thank you. Looks like we're having a bad time with irony in this hall. Can you then perhaps give an overview of the number of Estonian seafarers whose working conditions are so poor, or how many Estonian vessels flying the flag of Estonia to whom this convention applies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U257	Thank you. Here we need to look a little bit at the two draft ratifications of the Convention together. We have harmonised the requirements of the Maritime Labour Convention and the Fisheries Convention with the same law, but I am happy to answer now, then perhaps there are fewer questions under the next point. The Fisheries Convention is targeted at fishermen and owners of fishing vessels. The share of employed people in total employment is small here, which means that the target group of both conventions in Estonia is generally small. As of early 2015, 377 ships had been registered in the Estonian Cockpit Book, the total number of chartered ships without crew was 14. Based on data from the Tax and Customs Board and the Business Register, the share of the blue economy in employment was 3.6%. So the maritime sector directly employed a few tens of thousands of people, but there are certainly fewer fishermen, because it also covers travel and freight transport, port services, shipbuilding and all other such areas. According to data published by the Tax and Customs Board as of June 2015, there are a total of 317 people working in fishing and aquaculture, 97 of whom are in Lääne-Virumaa. The share of total employment is 0.1%. Basically, we are talking about professional fishermen working on large fishing vessels. They may not work in Estonia; they may and often do work in fishing teams on ships carrying flags from other countries. There are not many, but common rules could still apply to them. On the other hand, as I said, this convention also concerns all those ships and crews who come to the ports of Estonia. The Maritime Administration can then verify their compliance with the requirements of the Convention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U258	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U259	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned in your speech that ratification of the Convention should increase the competitiveness of Estonian fishermen. But if they have to make very significant investments and only France has joined this convention from European countries, the Baltic Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, the North Sea and other countries, then the situation is actually the opposite of the competitiveness of Estonian fishermen. All the more so because you yourself have given an example of how some conventions have not been ratified and entered into force for decades. If we are concerned about the competitiveness and livelihood of our own fishermen, would it not make sense for Estonia to enforce it only after the rest of the European countries have done so?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U260	Thank you. I'm afraid you've misunderstood. The Convention will enter into force, as I said in my speech, 12 months after it has been ratified by ten ILO members, eight of whom are coastal states. This has not happened today, which means that the Convention has not entered into force. And this 12 months will begin only after the necessary number of ILO members have ratified the Convention. So even after our ratification, this convention will not enter into force in itself. However, we have transposed these minimum standards into our national law. We have actually taken them over because we think they are reasonable. If you look at the changes introduced by the Maritime Labour Act, they are humane and necessary in every way. This is not a question of any investments made by Estonian fishermen, but of ensuring that fishermen have human working conditions, human accommodation and dignified treatment if they become ill. It all seems pretty basic to me. But since this sphere has so far been unregulated internationally, these conditions have been pretty lousy. In the case of workers in our own country, we would under no circumstances tolerate such a thing that, for example, they are not guaranteed rest periods. I think it makes perfect sense that we have already done this at national level, although the Convention will only continue to enter into force once it has been ratified by ten ILO members.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U261	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U262	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Undoubtedly, we all want people to have decent living and working conditions. But there's a price tag on everything. Now it would be interesting to know how much this alignment costs. So let's base it on one medium fishing vessel. How much will it cost to repeat it or to make it fit for purpose, and who will cover these costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U263	Thank you. If you look at paragraph 7 of the explanatory memorandum, you will see that the cost of adopting this draft as a law is zero. And they are zero because these requirements have been adopted and imposed by another law if you were not yet present in the Riigikogu. So I encourage support for the ratification law, which does not impose any additional obligations on fishing vessels, the companies concerned, fishermen or the Estonian state. How much does it cost to build or rebuild a single fishing vessel? I have to admit, I'm not a specialist on this. You can certainly ask colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs to address this issue between first and second readings. I must acknowledge my lack of knowledge on this specific issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U264	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U265	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with the draft law on ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention on Fishing, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at three meetings of the Commission: 16 and 23 November and 11 January. On 16 November, the Commission heard the reason why such a draft was needed by a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. On behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Commission was given a comprehensive response by Mariliis Proos, Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Working Life Development Department, and Monika Koks, Adviser to the same department. As the Minister has already said, the general objective of the Convention is to ensure decent working conditions for fishermen. The Convention covers the rights of fishermen in accommodation, catering, safety at work, health protection, medical care, social security and maritime labour. As the application of international labour standards to fishing vessels becomes legally binding following the ratification of the Convention, the Commission wondered whether the ratification of the Convention would lead to changes to the Maritime Labour Act approved by the Riigikogu in June 2014. It was asked whether ratification might lead to the need to change the current conditions on the ships and the financial costs to the Estonian state, as was the case today in this Chamber. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that Estonia has already introduced the requirements of the Convention into national law by the Maritime Labour Act approved by the Riigikogu in June 2014, as well as the requirements of the Convention are included in the Maritime Safety Act, for example. The standards necessary for ratifying the Convention exist in the law of our country and there is no need to amend Estonian laws. Ratification does not entail any additional costs. Nor will ratification entail new costs for shipowners, as the necessary costs have already been incurred to meet the requirements of the Convention. The question of monitoring was still on the agenda in the Commission. The competent authority in Estonia is the Maritime Administration, as well as the Labour Inspectorate and Health Board. The field of activity of the Maritime Administration is the exercise of the management function and national supervision within the scope of the tasks provided for by law and European Union legislation, and the application and application of state coercion to ensure safe and secure water traffic in the maritime areas of the Republic of Estonia and on navigable inland waterways. In answer to the question of why Estonia should accede to the Convention, the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the ratification of the Convention gives the state advantages of communicating with the maritime authorities of other port states. Ships flying the flag of Estonia have better opportunities to avoid long-term inspections in foreign ports and at the same time Estonia will be able to check that ships flying the flag of a foreign country in its ports comply with the requirements of the Convention. Certainly, less time spent in foreign ports will also be beneficial for shipowners. The expectations of Estonian maritime organisations regarding the ratification of the Convention are high, as this has a direct impact on both fishermen and ship owners. At its meeting on 11 January, the Commission decided to consensually propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft law on ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention on fishing work be put on the agenda on 20 January. a. The deadline for the amendments was set at 17 p.m. on 3 February 2016. Heljo Pikhof was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U266	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline for tabling 126 amendments. 3 February at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 10th item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U267	Let us move on to the 11th item, which is the first reading of the draft Act 127 on the ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention on Maritime Labour, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U268	Hello again! Now, the ratification of the second convention. I present the draft Act on the ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention on Maritime Labour initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Maritime Labour Convention establishes comprehensive international minimum standards for almost all conditions relating to seafarers' employment. The Convention provides for the right of seafarers to fair employment conditions, decent working and living conditions on board ships, as well as the right to health protection, medical care, welfare measures and other social protection measures. Among other things, the Convention lays down requirements for maritime employment contracts, salaries, hours of work and rest, holidays, accommodation and rest spaces, ship crewing, catering, health and social protection, health and safety at work. In addition, the provisions of the Convention will enhance the monitoring of the working and living conditions of the crew member and, in this respect, the monitoring obligations of the flag and port State. The requirements arising from the Convention, as already stated in the previous paragraph, were transposed into Estonian national law by the Maritime Labour Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2014. Therefore, ratification of the Convention does not entail the need to amend the existing law and does not entail costs. As in the case of the previous Convention, ratification here is an external political step whereby Estonia, as a member of the International Labour Organisation, expresses its support for all ILO Member States to ensure decent working conditions in this sector. It is important for us that workers in the maritime sector are guaranteed decent working and living conditions that take into account the particularities of their work. At the same time, a country that has ratified the Convention has some advantages. As the competent authority of the State which ratified the Convention, the Maritime Administration has the right to issue a certificate of service at sea, the possession of which facilitates communication with the competent authorities of other port States. As a Contracting Party to the Maritime Labour Convention, we have the right to inspect ships flying flags from other countries in our ports. A State which has ratified the Convention shall have the right to prevent its entry into the sea of a ship in which workers are not guaranteed decent working and living conditions. The ratification of the Convention therefore has a significant impact on fair competition and decent working conditions in the global maritime transport sector. At the same time, ratification will have a positive impact on external relations and Estonia's image in such an important maritime area will be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U269	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be President of the Legal Affairs Committee Heljo Pikhofi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U270	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft Act on the ratification of the International Labour Organisation's Maritime Labour Convention, initiated by the Government of the Republic, was prepared by the Committee on Legal Affairs for the first reading at three meetings: 16 and 23 November and 11 January. On 16 November, Marilis Proos and Monika Koks, officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, presented the content of the draft. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs noted that there is a large overlap between the regulation of the Fisheries Convention and the Maritime Labour Convention. Both conventions aim at creating decent working conditions in the maritime sector. As with the Fisheries Work Convention, the necessary standards for the ratification of the International Labour Organisation's Maritime Labour Convention are already in place in our national law and there is no need to amend Estonian laws. Neither does the ratification of the Maritime Labour Convention entail new costs for shipowners or for the Estonian state. The Maritime Labour Convention establishes comprehensive international minimum standards for the practically all conditions of seafarers' work. The Convention provides for the right of seafarers to fair employment conditions, decent working and living conditions on board ships, as well as health protection, medical care, welfare measures and other social protection measures. In addition, the provisions of the Convention contribute to the improvement of the monitoring of the working and living conditions of the crew member and the related flag and port State control obligations. Ratification will make it easier for flag State vessels to refrain from long-term inspections in foreign ports and, at the same time, to verify compliance with the requirements laid down in the Convention for ships flying the foreign flag of their ports. Ratification of the Maritime Labour Convention also means that maritime conventions which have been ratified by the State decades ago and which are no longer up to date will gradually lose legal binding, thereby contributing to the strengthening of legal clarity in the maritime sector. We were also told in the Commission that 68 countries have now ratified the ILO Maritime Labour Convention. In addition to the Estonian Convention, Austria, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and the Czech Republic have not yet ratified the European Union. The Convention has not been ratified by Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Iceland, Kazakhstan, Liechtenstein, Macedonia, Moldova, Monako, San Marino, Turkey, Ukraine, Belarus and Vatican from the rest of the European countries. When the bill is adopted as a law, the Maritime Labour Convention will enter into force for Estonia on the day of the registration of Estonia's letter of ratification with the Director-General of the International Labour Office (ILO) for 12 months. Finally, procedural decisions. At its meeting on 11 January, the Commission decided to consensually propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft Act on the ratification of the International Labour Organisation's Maritime Labour Convention be adopted. a 20 January for the plenary session and the deadline for amendments to be set at 5 p.m. on 3 February. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U271	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I don't see any calls. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 127 amendments. 3 February at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U272	We will move on to the 12th item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Pharmaceutical Act and the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. It is a great pleasure to welcome Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, in the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U273	It's a pleasure to be in this chair! I'll introduce you to today's latest bill on my administrative business. The purpose of the amendment of the Pharmaceutical Act and the Health Insurance Act is to establish the necessary legal basis to connect the two registers, the Agency's Register of Medicines and the code centre managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The code centre was originally set up as a basic register of digital prescription for the coding of the packaging of medicinal products and for the disclosure of information relating to the compensation of medicinal products. The register contains information on all medicines marketed in Estonia and packages of special foods and medical devices to be compensated by the health insurance fund. The purpose of the Register of Medicinal Products, on the other hand, has been to disclose information on marketing authorisations for medicinal products. This means, in practice, that the data contained in these two registers overlap to a very large extent: the Register of Medicinal Products contains information on authorised medicinal products, the Marketing Authorisation Information, and the Code Centre contains information on packages benefiting from the Health Insurance Fund. The current Register of Medicinal Products is technically and also functionally obsolete and, as has been said, almost entirely repeats the functions of the Code Centre. As a result, the plan to merge these two registers, save taxpayers' money and make the order more reasonable, so that the information is not duplicated. With one register, we could be more reasonable. Technical preparations have been made for the two registers to become a single register. A new register was tested in spring 2014 and most of the work was completed last December. Now it is basically so far that we can do the unification, but it requires the amendment of the law, which is the only content of this draft. The draft does not impose any obligations on private individuals or businesses. This is a technical change. I've already told you about the costs. There will be no direct cost of this unification. Failure to develop the old version of the Register of Medicinal Products will help to save maintenance costs, as there is one instead of two registers, and the savings will be around EUR 80,000 once, plus annual maintenance costs savings of EUR 12000. Ultimately, the new Register of Medicinal Products will become significantly more user-friendly, facilitating the work of both doctors and pharmacists and providing a valuable source of information for patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U274	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. I ask Liina Kersna, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U275	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, who have managed to remain in the Chamber of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft presented by the Minister on 11 January, at the first meeting of the Commission this year. The draft was presented to us by Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Labour and Health, Ly Swedes, Development Advisor to the Agency, and Nele Wheat, Adviser to the Department for the Development of Digital Capacity at the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'm not going to reschedule the draft, the Minister has already told you about it. The members of the Social Affairs Committee were interested in how much more precisely the savings will be made. On that we received the same answer as the Minister said earlier. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: to bring the draft to the plenary chamber of the Riigikogu on 20 January, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 3 February at 5.15 p.m. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-20_U276	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 154 must be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 154. a 3 February at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is on the agenda. Good fellows! Our trial today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 18.19 a.m.
