ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 8th working week. Do colleagues want to hand over drafts or enquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Let's do a presence check, please! 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, there are five points on today's agenda. The first item is the review of the use and disposal of state assets 2015. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: Before we go to this item, I will briefly present the procedure for this procedure. First of all, Auditor General Alar Karis will report for up to 30 minutes. Then the questions are for the waitress. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask a single oral question to the rapporteur and the representatives of the political groups may participate in the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the agenda. The first item is the review of the use and disposal of state assets 2015. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: Auditor General Alar Karise of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This year, the National Audit Office's overview of the use and preservation of state assets has reached your hands at a time when the political composition of the government is changing. However, nothing changes from the viewpoint of the National Audit Office. Our observations and recommendations are driven by the objective reality of the Estonian state and do not depend on what is the name of one or another member of the government. Whatever the problems of the government, our energy economy, our education, our health and pension systems, the labour market and the development of the economy need to be addressed. State reform and administrative reform await this. The reality is forcing us to make fundamental changes; it is necessary to carry out a thorough review of the country's many responsibilities and responsibilities towards its people. Once the country's tasks and their content are known, it will only be clear how many and what kind of people we need to carry out these tasks, where less are needed, where more and how much money is needed for all of this. Estonia is facing 2017 in a situation where our sovereign debt is the lowest in the European Union as a whole. Employment is close to the maximum time after the restoration of independence. However, labour productivity, which is a source of prosperity, does not want to improve and is at a level where it was five years ago compared to other Europe. Estonia's economic growth was almost half as low as the European Union average last year and the purchasing power has also decreased. The pressure on the functioning of the State and covering maintenance costs is increasing. The public budget will continue to grow, but the share of planned expenditure will increase from 78% this year to around 80% by 2020. In just a few years' time, the social and health sector will take half the cost of the state budget, leaving little room to support the development of other activities in the country. A large part of public investment is still made through European Union subsidies. The Riigikogu and the government have to use the reports, reviews and recommendations of the National Audit Office as the supreme audit institution of the state for many problems with the economy and functioning of the state. If I hear from here or there, especially from the executives, that this or another audit didn't bring up anything new, that everything is already known, then it's actually positive. So the government knows what's going on. However, it is important to reach solutions. In doing so, it should not be assumed that the government is in the hands of the government to solve all Estonia's problems. No, it's not. There are many factors that are independent of the government, the Riigikogu and the Estonian state. Let us focus, then, on what the government and the Riigikogu can change. Good listeners! I can confirm that the accounting and reporting of the Estonian state is still at a good level. The country's annual report for the previous year, which the Minister of Finance will present to you as the next item on the agenda, is correct. But as you certainly noticed when you read the overview of the National Audit Office, accounting is only part of the story. Unusual transactions with state assets may also be properly recorded in the accounts, even in accordance with the table of the state budget. This year's overview of the National Audit Office focuses on the state's assets, both what can be touched and what cannot be touched. The total amount of this asset is around EUR 30 billion. In a situation where there is less and less free money and budget constraints are becoming increasingly difficult, the decisions of the Riigikogu and the government and the way in which they are made and their quality depend increasingly on whether the property is used to support sustainable development in Estonia in the best way, whether unreasonable spending is avoided, achieving the stated development goals and increasing the incomes of society as a whole or not. An understanding of the problems is not enough. The way to address these bottlenecks must also be well-designed, effectively implemented, with clear responsibility for the process and results. However, responsibility does not mean that it is necessary to determine who will eventually be dismissed in the event of failure. Instead, from the very beginning, it should be clear who is responsible for achieving one or the other action or result, so-called whose own or another subject is. This year's review summarises a number of problems that do not require reforms or huge self-exceeding. Whether it is a shuffling land reform, where the dog has been overcome but not yet the tail, or whether it is the lack of cooperation between the executive authorities in organising joint procurements or the unplanned management of the state vehicle fleet. At the same time, there are also issues whose search for a solution is, for some reason, very difficult. I am thinking of issues relating to the establishment, maintenance and supervision of companies in a country that has remained unsolved for years, as well as of state foundations. However, there are recent positive signs that the executive will try to comply with the recommendation of the National Audit Office to find out why the state owns one or the other company, to set objectives for them and to sell in private hands companies which the state does not need directly for the performance of its tasks. A separate category consists of horizontal topics, such as the state's real estate policy, which is discussed in the overview of the National Audit Office. What is happening around the real estate policy highlights a pattern of behaviour on several sides, where it is not desirable to review any decisions made in a long time in a new situation, to raise the contentious issue on the table, despite the fact that the assumptions underlying some policy or reform have fallen away years ago. Dear Riigikogu! As Auditor General, I find it problematic to have such a decision-making style that, without sufficient preparatory work, conclusions or decisions are reached, then presented as the only possible or emotionally charged and difficult to assess arguments to justify their actions. Governance is accompanied by the need to strike a balance between rational considerations and different interests and values. The principle of the State Assets Act, according to which state rulers must consider the decisions relating to state assets thoroughly, explain and verify their legitimacy, applies to every decision of the government. I am worried about the things that have a high price for recklessness and that seemingly nothing can go wrong, but success depends on many uncertain or even unexplained circumstances and luck. The National Audit Office tries to focus its audits on those risks where overconfidence or ignorance in handling state assets can lead to serious problems. On some occasions, the confidence and feelings of infallibility of decisionmakers are alarming. At other times, there has also been a feeling that people who dare to question the reasonableness of a decision, as if they do not understand or value the work of statesmen. For example, Estonian air connections with Europe are obviously important, but what are the possible solutions and what is the cost of one or the other solution? And what's the price we're willing to pay? In one case and in the other, it is not a matter of analysis or study of the subject, but, above all, of responsible behaviour on the part of decision-makers. There is no doubt that the final decision will remain with politicians, but that does not mean that the opinions and recommendations of experts should not be heard. The Riigikogu, which has entrusted the government with the administration of the state budget and state assets, has the right to know the possible price of these decisions with a very high financial impact on taxpayers. The government has a duty to find out before deciding. And in view of the future, it might be worth discussing whether, for example, in the case of expenditure of a certain size, for which the Riigikogu has not fixed a clear purpose for final spending in the budget, the government would ask Parliament for a separate mandate to use the money for one purpose or another. This would ensure a broad legitimacy of decisions and would also provide assurance for the government. Ladies and gentlemen, Every year, when I put together the overview of the National Audit Office, I do a small inventory of the topics I have already talked about. I must say that no pressing concerns can be removed from the list. Maybe it's too early to wait for that. However, if you look at audits of ten or more years of age, you will also face today's calamities. Are these all problems that cannot be solved by nature? There must be some problems like that. Often, though, the common denominator is a lack of effort to learn from the mistakes that have been made. Work and action are in progress, the fight is uncompromising until there is money, public attention, or until the issue has become a political priority. When the spotlight goes down, everything will continue as far as possible and often these options will not be sufficient. In that case, it is the National Audit Office that points to problems that officials already know about, but cannot solve. On many occasions, possible solutions are known in a narrower circle of authorities, but they do not come to the public. Even here, at the meetings of the Special Committee on National Budget Control of the Riigikogu, the auditors of the National Audit Office have noticed that the representatives of the Ministry who present official positions during the discussion will later speak in free form in the corridor conversation how this or the other could actually be done. However, the Ministry's top-notch is not recommending possible solutions for political reasons, for example, because one or the other idea has been proposed by political opponents of the government currently in power. On several occasions officials have asked the National Audit Office's auditors to support their rational ideas, which have not been understood by the political leadership. The opposite is also the case: politicians sometimes have to make an effort to open up the eyes of officials who think and point to paper only within their own administration when assessing the needs of real life. Good listeners! The Riigikogu can express its expectations to the government and set objectives and monitor their fulfilment, so that it should not be held afterwards in the following years that there has been no improvement in matters that are important for the Estonian state. Given that, according to recent studies, the average attention capacity of a person is very limited today, I propose only three generalisations from among the observations made by the National Audit Office, which should be given to the government. Firstly, there needs to be room for error in moving forward and changing. The constant fear of error hinders creativity and innovation. Alongside the central principle of the functioning of the public sector, of course, the principle that the government agrees before making a decision and makes it public what kind of risk it is willing to take, to what extent and who is responsible. This principle of allowed margin of error may concern both the granting of individual European Union grants and wider policy programmes, such as in the field of research and development. Thus, without losing responsibility, decision makers will have the opportunity to change something themselves, and the costs of mosquito-tiring control will be reduced. Officials are terrified, and in fear of error, they follow the rules that are super-detailed. Instead, they could be trusted and given the opportunity to be sufficiently flexible. In doing so, absurd rules and procedures are often justified by some mysterious requirements. I confirm that the fight against overregulation, rigidity and distrust is also the task of the National Audit Office. In a situation where the needs and regulations of real life conflict, we must take the side of real life rather than demand rigid rules. This has been my message to the auditors of the National Audit Office, but I recommend that everyone in Estonia who carries out control and supervision follow the same principle. Returning to this margin of error: for the government, you, ladies and gentlemen, must determine this margin of error. If the existing rules, such as the State Assets Act, do not allow for sufficient flexibility, the rules need to be changed and not simply bypassed. Secondly, care must be taken not to dissipate the real problems of Estonian people and entrepreneurs, whether it is the person's access to a doctor or the certainty that assistance will come in the event of an accident, or the protection of the investor in the event of malicious bankruptcies, or a system of legal relationships that would allow the honest entrepreneur to engage primarily in the promotion of his business and not the administration of his business. Only in parallel with the effective resolution of the problems in real life that are closest to everyone can they understand and also find solutions to the complex issues related to, for example, the openness of society. Macroeconomic concepts, such as budgetary balance, will also become more understandable to the citizen. Thus, the person and his/her worries will continue before deciding on the design of the logo of the Estonian Presidency or the establishment of another monument. Thirdly, ideas and proposals should be considered on the basis of their intrinsic value and not on the basis of a subjective opinion to an idea or to a recommendation. Five years ago, "Employers' Manifesto" crashed into the government's political atmosphere and basically the audit of the state of support for entrepreneurship was carried out by the National Audit Office. The basic ideas of these documents have now been revived in the report of the new economic development working group commissioned by the government. I hope that in the future, the government will have the wisdom to assess the ideas based on their content. A good idea, which is also feasible, is so rare that, in order to protect it, we should do everything we can and encourage everyone to come out with our ideas, because from the many ideas we have, some of which can lead us further. Otherwise, mediocrity takes over, and mediocrity creates nothing more than mediocrity. And mediocrity has nothing to do with it but mediocrity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U4	Thank you, Reverend Auditor General. You also have questions, Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U5	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! Thank you for this very important report. I would like to ask specifically about point 73 and the points that you are talking about, where the real estate costs of the state have increased and the Ministry of Finance estimates that there will be a further increase over the next five years, so that they will almost double. Here's the graph and the numbers, all nicely written and a little bit of explanation. But I still wonder how that's possible. We are building a new superbuilding for a number of ministries, and its aim should be to reduce costs, among other things. There are modern employment relationships, teleworking. Finally, we are always talking about the fact that the number of people on public pay should also decrease in proportion to the decline in the working age population. How can such an increase in costs occur so sharply, and how is this justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U6	Good questioner, we also discussed this in the Special Committee on State Budget Control of the Riigikogu, where we also pointed out, as a figure, where these expenditure increases come from. In many respects, they are dependent on the question that I referred to earlier: is this model, which was created in its time, still justified today? As we know, the Ministry of Finance also wishes to see the result, and it is assigned to a number greater than 6%. In many respects, this increase is due to the requirement that, figuratively speaking, a public limited liability company must also make a profit. There are no major differences in rents and services prices resulting from moving.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U7	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, your presentation gave the impression that the National Audit Office has taken a benevolent course. This means that there is no immediate need to punish or be very strict for everything; rather, it must be shown to the workers that there is something a bit wrong and that it should be corrected. This feeling deepens even more when I look at how the National Audit Office has viewed the work of the RKAS, about which the popularity is a lot of great anecdotes. There's talk of how a few little things work like the General Staff in the years of the war and huge money being put to sleep. Does this show that the National Audit Office has become a well-meaning institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U9	Good questioner! The National Audit Office has been very benevolent since its creation. Otherwise, these recommendations cannot be made and the state could not develop if we were a malicious authority. But as far as the specific State Real Estate AS is concerned, we really do not have anything to blame the public limited company for as such. What they're doing is within the law. It is a question of real estate policy, which would probably make sense to review so that it does not continue in this way. And that's what we point to in our audit, not mind State Real Estate AS. They are working within the framework that has been politically presented to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U10	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U11	Thank you, manager. Dear Auditor General, Interestingly, I also have a question about the RKAS. I think this is the topic that excites everyone today. Recently, I read that the so-called repair debt of the RKAS is half a billion euros. Basically, people live at the expense of future generations. My question is this: how do you comment on whether, in essence, unfinished work is hidden in the state budget, i.e. could the state budget be in deficit with half a billion? They're really unfinished jobs that should be done right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U12	Good questioner! The purpose of setting up this company was precisely the opposite. The question is, we have a lot of these buildings. At some point, they really need to be repaired, and there is not enough money for all of this at one point in time. And if we think about the buildings that will be released in the course of administrative reform in local governments, we will see that the problem is even greater. I think that this needs to be dealt with, and also our audit report, which has recently come up, drew attention to this. This is not just about buildings that are empty. Buildings must also be kept alive so that they do not become dangerous to people who even pass by.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U13	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! I have a question about the country's liquid reserves. You have pointed out in paragraph 33 that at the end of 2014, liquid assets were in surplus at 300 million, but in 2015 they were negative at 300 million. I have also tried to find out on my own why such a situation has arisen. One of the reasons given by the Ministry of Finance was that the money went into targeted financing for the use of the Structural Funds, but that is not true because it can only be a one-off effect. However, liquid assets have also decreased this year. Another logical reason would be that the loans were repaid, but the loan volume is more or less the same. I say, where did the money go?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U15	Good questioner! I'm in front of the same question as where the money is put. But we have a unique opportunity today: the Minister of Finance will be present after me and he will probably be able to answer very precisely where these reserves have gone. We refer in our audit report, as well as in this review, to the fact that the reserves of both the sickness fund and the unemployment fund have been introduced at least as of September. We had a discussion on this subject with the Ministry of Finance, and we came to a common understanding that the introduction of these reserves should be decided by the Riigikogu, which clearly defines in law where and to what extent these reserves may or may not be used at all. But one of the reasons we have been told is the same as you referred to. As we know, the euro will come later, and we have not been able enough to carry out the tasks we have been assigned. This means that these funds cannot be mobilised, and there is certainly one reason where this minus comes from. But once again, the Minister of Finance will certainly be able to give it a more detailed answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U16	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U17	Thank you! Dear Auditor General! What is the public spending number in your operations? And from there, how do you estimate the proportion of this number in general expenditure? And the third part of the question is, what options do you see for reducing public spending to tighten up?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U18	Good questioner! Of course I can't tell you that number by heart. However, if we look at statistics, we are not at the top of the table for these expenditures when we are talking about European statistics. Now it's a question of what to do next. I have also pointed out this and, in my speech today, I pointed out that we should first look at the tasks that we should carry out, and then look at how many of these people could be. Otherwise, there may be a situation that we really reduce the number of employees in the public sector, which will certainly produce a certain effect, but the result may be that replacement activities will continue, but important activities may not be carried out, because the wrong people will simply be let go.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U19	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U20	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! There are, in fact, many questions and the state budget as an opposition ambassador shows that the RKAS budget lines are blind. We can only see that there are allocations by ministries, but we cannot get the content and it is very slow to identify it through enquiries. This whole process is blind, we are under a blind procedure for the budget. Can you comment on the claim that the budget should be transparent? The second question is how much damage has been knowingly caused by the State as owner of the property in the last ten years. Have you calculated that? An example is the Patarei prison, which has been in the hands of the RKAS for ten years: knowingly, real estate has been neglected and the result is that private companies now have unreasonable investments. At the same time, it is a cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U21	Good questioner! I'll start with the second question. The word 'bad' already refers to something that the National Audit Office does not deal with. Such a case should be addressed to the relevant bodies. We cannot say, and we certainly cannot point the finger at anyone, we do not know whether it is maliciousness, sloppyness, incompetence or anything else. We can show you what the situation is now. Patarei Prison is clearly not the only problematic complex, there are other such buildings, and many of them are not at the disposal of the State, some are at the disposal of the municipality and in the same weeping situation. So I can't tell you if it's malicious, and if it is, how much evil is it? The first question was about the blind procedure. Yes, we have drawn attention to the blind lines of the budget through my mouth in the past few years. Last year, I gave you an example that there is a line of 'Financial transactions' in the budget, and it says more than EUR 70 million. But I think this is where the budget procedure asks what it really means. And if it is necessary, as I mentioned in my report, you should ask the government to come back to this room and ask for permission that we want to use this 70 million for and for this. This would give a certain legitimacy to this government's decision. It's in your hands, as I understand it. I have to ask why there is no clarity behind these numbers. But once again, the situation has even improved over the last few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U22	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U23	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It's a shame you rarely come here to enlighten us. But my question is that the government wrote 85 million into the chimney with the Estonian Air case and allocated more than 70 million to its successor. You say that the government did not ask for a business plan that included the opinion of independent experts and was not a sure step in legitimacy. And even then, the money continued to be provided after the Ministry of Finance had written off earlier loans. My question is on point 104, where you say that the Minister did not show the necessary insistence. Juhan Parts is a nice man, but do you think it is justified and wise to send this fine man and colleague to the European Court of Auditors after such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U24	Thank you for your question. I understand that I have to answer the last part of the question, not the beginning. You say Juhan Parts is a nice guy. Then why not send it? As Auditor General, I can only answer the question to the party concerning his competence and competence. Since he has worked as Auditor General, I have expressed my position on this matter when the Minister of Finance asked me to do so. I met him, and I had no doubt that he did not know the money numbers, that he was not aware of the budget, or that he did not know what auditing meant. Not everything else falls within the competence of the National Audit Office or the Auditor General. It is a political decision, and it is made by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U25	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! First of all, I would like to thank you for your presentation and I would like to congratulate you on the overviews coming from your house for the very correct and beautiful Estonian language. But you say clearly in the review that the state's real estate policy and the real estate organisation, which was launched in 2001, have reached a kind of deadlock. The goals that were then set have not been met. Do you think that all real estate policies and arrangements should be reviewed quickly? Is it a long time ago, or is this a good time now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U27	Thank you for your question. I think that, when we drew attention to this, it is probably wise to look at the problem and assess the state of things. As you indicated, it started in 2001 and was intended to be completed in 2003. It is 2016, but it has not been completed. Part of the real estate has been transferred, part of it has not. Of course there are reasons. I mentioned some of the reasons today. It is important to look at and analyse whether this model is the most sensible and whether this policy justifies itself. Perhaps, as proposed, some real estate could really be administered by the real private sector. This should not be a very big taboo issue if we see that we are facing more than 500 million repairs, etc. New houses and buildings that aren't ready are getting old at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U28	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U29	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Respectable waitress! When you presented the previous summary about a year ago, the evaluation of your Dutch, Polish and Swedish colleagues was attached to it. The message was about that, although the National Audit Office is honored and highly valued in Estonia, the objective of the National Audit Office could be to increase its influence in the future. How do you think this has worked in the intervening year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U30	Thank you for your question. It's always good to judge yourself. We find that we are moving in this direction for the better. And our influence is completely there. We have also started a process inside the house: we have taken a certain number of our audits and put together a working group to assess the impact of the audits selected on the basis of a specific random sample. But our influence and influence can be assessed, above all, by the people in this Chamber and the general public, including the press. We are far from being satisfied with ourselves, and therefore our influence is also a matter for us. But sometimes it's not about power per se, it's more about whether it looks like power or not. And I'm sure there's more work to be done in that direction, inside and out of the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U31	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, thank you for your presentation. My question concerns the organisation of public procurement and your reference to the fact that we do not take advantage of the possibility of austerity when organising joint and centralised procurement. Your review shows that only 4.3% of procurement is so-called joint or centralised procurement. On the other hand, it turns out that we can save around 30% of our spending. We are also undergoing a state reform, according to which ministries and their agencies must reduce their operating costs by 3% each year or find internal resources. There is such a contradiction here that we are leaving these resources unexploited. Can you explain a little why these purchases aren't made? Is there any reason for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U33	Public procurement is a subject with which the Riigikogu can spend a longer time. But there is often a reason that time pressure is sometimes so great that the best solution is chosen, not the best one, but the cheapest one. From there on, it's probably even more complicated and time-consuming to start buying with someone. But yes, there was indeed such an example in the review that 30% of expenditure can be saved. Hopefully, the message that if we have had more than 3500 purchases in the course of the year and, as I recall, only 150 of them have been made jointly, in itself will put more pressure on joint procurement. Today we are talking about state property, and 80% of our budget is still stuck. That is why it is very important that we use our assets sensibly. Joint procurement is certainly an option.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U34	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, thank you for your presentation. My question concerns points 88 to 93 - that is, national companies and your thesis, which is absolutely correct, that participation in business must be profitable, legitimate and necessary. In point 91 of the review, you refer to the fact that the State still does not have a policy of participation in companies, nor do ministries explain why the State needs one or the other company. You are also referring here to your audit from 2013. My question is whether you have made a step forward from here. Has the National Audit Office drawn conclusions from this, or has it also made suggestions as to which companies the state does not really need and which do not correspond to the fact that their possession is necessary, profitable and legitimate?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U36	We can analyse which company is profitable and legitimate and which is not. But we certainly cannot say that this or another company will have to go to the stock market, this or the other one will have to be sold in part, these are government-level decisions. And here the first steps have already been taken. We have both the Green Paper and the White Paper on participatory policies. The problem has, of course, been that while the Minister for Finance developed it, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications developed a solution for the companies in his administration. It didn't make sense. However, it makes sense to do such things together and within the framework of a common White Paper. But what kind of policy is the National Audit Office supposed to be, but this is not what the National Audit Office can say, in many ways these are political decisions. We will then be able to assess whether the objectives that were set for one company or another, as well as for the foundation, have been achieved. We have also drawn attention to the question of whether the form of the foundation is always the most reasonable and correct, or whether it would be sufficient if it were, for example, a public institution. What are the advantages of a foundation compared to a public institution or other form, we often do not get clear answers to this, or sometimes there is a grotesque justification that if a foundation is made, then there is no need to join the integrated accounting system, or SAP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U37	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U38	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You repeatedly refer in this report to the fact that a state company is responsible for generating revenue and, as an investor, the state must behave rationally and precisely from the point of view that it must be able to generate revenue. In your opinion, whether this income can only be treated as profit and dividends, or whether the income may be a regional policy benefit to the state as owner, for example, or as a general economic benefit of some other kind, which is really estimable and on which basis the National Audit Office can say that yes, the company did not earn income, does not show direct profit, but the regional policy benefits to the state are clearly present. Do you think such a thing makes sense, or do you completely rule it out?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U39	Thank you very much. I've lived so long that I don't rule out much in my life. But your question was about companies. Well, a public company or a public undertaking is an institution operating in the same way under the Commercial Code and not all other companies are able to make a profit. Some even make losses. The same is true for state companies here, there is not much difference. If the owner, i.e. the State, considers it reasonable to place this resource in a different way or to benefit in another way, and if it is clearly stated, please very much why not. As long as it is within the limits of the law, the National Audit Office and I personally have no objection to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U40	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General! Following or in parallel with Riigi Kinnisvara AS, a defence investment centre will be established under the direction of the Ministry of Defence. These organisations are similar in their purpose to one in the field of defence, the other in the civil sphere. Have you already, to some extent, studied the plans of this centre and also referred to the risks you see in the activities of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, the increase in prices, the increase in costs and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U42	Thank you for your question. Well, the purpose of one audit and an overview is to learn lessons. When you read carefully about the reaction to the State Real Estate Company, the Ministry of Finance official brought out ten lessons. In my opinion, it would be a relatively good policy if the aim were that each audit can be given lessons that are clearly described. Those who recognize that they are moving on the same terrain can count on these lessons. As far as defence matters are concerned, they will certainly be our focus in the coming years. We are now putting together our audit plan for the coming years. If the Riigikogu approves the budget for next year, where a certain resource has been allocated, so that we can increase this capacity, we will definitely do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U43	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Mr President, for your very meaningful review. As a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I am probably a little more familiar with the activities of the National Audit Office. This action is extremely important, extremely important. But, unfortunately, it is haunted just as many areas of our lives lack certain resources. Today, the new coalition is discussing and making changes to the new state budget. Perhaps you can give us an overview of the resources that the National Audit Office has to use? And how much more money do you need to get you to do your job even better?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U45	Thank you for this question. It gives me a chance to juggle numbers here, but I'm definitely not gonna do that. Currently, the budget of the National Audit Office is approximately 5 million euros. Of course, there have been better times where the National Audit Office has had not 90 employees, but more than 200 employees. True, that was in the 1920s. I do not think it is appropriate for me now to say that there is little money and nothing is left to do because there is no resource. Rather, within the institution, we try to use these resources in such a way that we deal with important things and focus attention at certain moments of time on areas where we believe the risk is greatest. But I certainly wouldn't mind if the National Audit Office had a budget of 50 million euros. Then, of course, there would be another question: where to find people who would work at the National Audit Office and who could be paid the money. So we would be happy to stay within the limits of the resource we have and move forward with the growth of this resource as the rest of Estonia does.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U46	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You also announced today that you have carried out an internal evaluation and a satisfaction study. My question is this: have you, during the internal evaluation, confirmed your desire to find levers that are currently not available to increase the effectiveness of your work? Maybe we can give you some in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U48	Thank you for this question. I think the best guarantee of influence is professionalism. If we can raise our professionalism, then we can also deal with the question of influence and prove that the work we do is really the best. However, if you have any good ideas from this hall for how to increase our influence, I am sure that I will be happy to take that advice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U49	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U50	Thank you. Mr. Auditor General! I've met your officials, this is the superjob your people are doing! Let's be honest, the fact that there are the right shortcomings on several pages means a lot of work. It is very difficult to put these figures together. My question, however, is how many employees of public authorities have been punished for their work not done. Do you have an overview of this, or are you going to give us an overview, we're going to disperse, and there's nothing going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U51	Thank you for your question. What I can do is give my officials a message that they have done a good job. I think it's the most important thing for them. It is not our job to punish anyone if officials have failed to do anything anywhere. It is up to the institutions themselves to analyse whether what we are saying is justified and whether it is the fault of a particular official if that word can be used, or whether it is incompetence, lazyness, stupidity, something else. We will not punish anyone within the institution, whether this or the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U52	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question relates to property in the country, which is still privately owned, but which is being abandoned. People have started to take very active advantage of the opportunity to give up their real estate. This concerns, for example, the region of Ida-Virumaa, where people either leave Tallinn or leave the country at all to get a job. It's too expensive for them to pay utilities for their property. It may not be possible to sell the real estate, either there are no buyers or there is some kind of debt, so it is easier to hand it over to the State. Do you have any idea what's going on with these apartments? And what is the state planning to do with these apartments?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U54	Thank you. We have an overview of what is already in the hands of the state, or in the hands of local governments or the state. We do not have an overview of housing held by private individuals or wish to privatise them or give them to the state or local government. If such a process were to be launched, I imagine that the country should have a very clear understanding of why it needs a specific building. Otherwise, the problem remains: the property simply moves from a private person to the state, but there is still nothing to do with the building.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U55	Thank you, Madam Auditor General, for your answers. No further questions for you right now. Ladies and gentlemen, I will open negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U56	Honorable manager! Honorable Auditor General! Honorable Minister! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! This is, in the view of the Free Party Group, a very important debate and a very important document. We are really sorry that it does not receive as much of our colleagues' attention and interest as would be self-evident. The Auditor General has no luck whatsoever. The annual report of the National Audit Office has been before the Riigikogu for several years, when the media's public attention has focused on something else, this time on the birth pains of the new government coalition. However, I believe that this document should be very meaningful for the new coalition to be born in order to learn from past mistakes. One very important point in my opinion was said by the Auditor General at the meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control: for the National Audit Office there is no government of the Republic of Estonia. That is probably what the soon-to-be government should consider. A citizen of the Republic of Estonia does not need to remember and analyse precisely that this decision was made by the Laar Government, the Kallas Government, the Ansip Government, the Clothe Government, the Ratas Government ♪ all of these governments share the same responsibility, and we all share the same responsibility in this Chamber. My colleague said quietly during the debate that the Auditor General is mild today and that this whole report is somewhat mild. The National Audit Office is not a prosecutor's office; it does not blame or judge. The National Audit Office places a mirror before politicians and whether what looks back on it is pleasant or not is still more of a viewer's self-esteem. 'Don't kiss the mirror like a crook! 'is an old Russian proverb. And you can't and you don't have to be what happened to the previous party of the Prime Minister, who for 17 years looked in the mirror just to ask, "The mirror, the mirror on the wall, who is the most beautiful in the whole country? " When for 17 years the mirror answered as expected, everything was fine, but when not at one point, panic broke out. The role of the National Audit Office is, in my opinion, to bring peasant wisdom, common sense to the administration of the state. Reading the recommendations of the audits that I have succeeded in reading in the Commission's work, they are self-evident; they are very natural; they are sane. It's a matter of how much they count. Commenting on the report a year ago, I said that when the National Audit Office makes minor recommendations, ministers and chancellors generally agree with them and promise to correct the errors. If the National Audit Office draws attention to very serious problems, it would rather be passed in silence. Unfortunately, in my opinion, the mid-term year has not brought about any significant changes in this respect. Maybe the next one will. I hope that the current new government treaty makers will not repeat the mistake of the previous coalition and will not be stuck in political parties' election promises. No matter how beautiful a mosaic of these promises will lead our common country well. Advisors who assist politicians may need to become more involved in these same audits of the National Audit Office in order to clarify what the actual tasks and responsibilities of the state to their people are and what has been done so far well, what has been done wrong. The Auditor General was almost an oracle when he wrote in the introduction to the report: 'Time has long signalled to the leaders of the country that cosmetic changes are no longer sufficient. Life itself imposes more fundamental changes on us. ' Today, almost the entire Riigikogu has understood the need for these changes and has expressed its wish vigorously. It is left to wish the National Audit Office continued wisdom and future rulers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U57	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. I thank the Auditor General for his report and answers. We have dealt with today's first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U58	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's resolution "Accepting the State's Summary Report for the financial year 2015" as presented by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, to waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, Before you is a summary report of the state's financial year, which summarises the state's activities, revenue and expenditure and the financial situation at the end of 2015. Overall, by 2015, we can say that macroeconomic growth was 1.4%. For the people of Estonia, the year was a positive year, employment increased, the average wage increased and unemployment decreased. People's income and purchasing power were affected by a fall in prices, an increase in the tax-free rate, and a reduction in income tax and unemployment insurance rates. The country ended the year with a surplus budget. The summary report for the financial year of the State has been compiled on the basis of the accounts of all public sector entities. It shall consist of an annual report and financial statements and shall include data on the state, local government, government and public sector as a whole. The activity report provides an overview of the country's most important economic indicators and internal control systems for 2015. It also includes an overview of the implementation of the action plans submitted by the ministries, the State Chancellery and the constitutional institutions. Compared to previous years, the report shows in more detail the unused funds in 2015 and transferred to this year. As of 31 December 2015, the State had assets of EUR 16,3 billion, most of which were fixed assets. Compared to the same date last year, the value of the assets has increased by EUR 51 million. The total liabilities amounted to EUR 7.1 billion and decreased by EUR 38.3 million compared to the previous period. Last year, revenue from the state budget amounted to EUR 7.99 billion, or 99.9% of what was initially planned. Compared to 2014, revenue was 111.5 million euros, or 1.4% more. Tax revenue, together with the tax to be passed on, was €7.13 billion, which is 102.3% compared to what was planned in the budget. Non-tax revenues received EUR 859,2 million, or 58.1% of what was planned for the year. Non-tax revenues were below budget expectations, accounting for 39% of budget expenditure. The volume of subsidies decreased by 340.4 million euros, i.e. by 46.4%, compared to 2014. The main reason for this decline was the modest collection of external resources from the European Union. The European Commission's funding principles have changed significantly between the previous and the current financial periods. While in the previous period the European Commission made a larger amount of advance payments to the Member States and reimbursed 100% of the applications already during the period, the amount of advance payments is smaller in the current period and 90% in the period is reimbursed. EUR 8.34 billion was used for expenditure and investment in 2015. Compared to 2014, costs were more than EUR 502.8 million. The country's main focus was on social protection: it amounted to EUR 2.8 billion and the amount increased by 8.4% over the year. The largest payments of social benefits, i.e. pensions, amounted to 1.6 billion euros last year, which is 6.4% more than in 2014. The unused funds of the ministries' governing areas, the State Chancellery and constitutional institutions were transferred to 2016 to more than EUR 404,1 million. A total of EUR 186,6 million has been less than the amount of funds transferred to 2015. The share of funds transferred amounted to 4.6% of the approved budget and was significantly lower than in previous years. As in 2014, the nominal balance of the government sector also improved in 2015 compared to the forecast at the time of the development of the state budget. Instead of the forecast EUR 111 million deficit, the government sector remained in nominal surplus and by the end of the year the deficit of EUR 91.1 million was in surplus instead of EUR 111 million. The surplus was at all levels of the government sector and together the surplus was 0.4% of GDP. The surplus was achieved thanks to better labour taxes than projected. The National Audit Office's report is included in the summary report for the financial year, which the Auditor General has just made a more comprehensive overview of. In short, according to the control report submitted by the National Audit Office, the state's annual accounts for 2015 are in a substantial part correct and the country's most important economic transactions have been carried out in accordance with the State Budget Act. As in previous years, the National Audit Office also referred to bottlenecks in its report. The National Audit Office was most concerned about the sharp decrease in the state's liquid assets. Consequently, the National Audit Office recommended reviewing the current liquidity management model of the state. The sharp decrease in the liquidity reserve was mainly due to the bridge financing of external assets, which increased by EUR 203.1 million over the year. This was an exceptional phenomenon caused by the previous one, 2007-2013. Closing the 2008 period and on-going 2014. The launch of the 2000 period. As I mentioned earlier, the financing principles have changed in the new period: the European Commission will no longer make advances in the same amount as in the previous period. The cash flow for the previous year was also affected by the final balance of EUR 175 million, which is due at the earliest by the end of 2018. As far as liquidity management is concerned, the framework for the Treasury to keep the volume of State liquidity and the amount of credit lines immediately used at a level that allows it to assume with reasonable risk that the State will be able to meet all financial obligations at all times. There have been no cases where the volume of the liquid financial resources of the State and the volume of credit lines immediately used would have been below the target level established. Based on the above, I can assure you that the level of liquidity is assessed daily. Liquidity risks have been mitigated and payments by all participants in the Treasury group account will be made in due time. Taking all this into account, I propose that the Riigikogu approve the summary report of the state for the financial year 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U60	Thank you, Minister, there are also questions for you. Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U61	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! As stated in the explanatory memorandum to the consolidated financial report, one of the tasks of this document is to provide the necessary information to the Riigikogu for new budgetary decisions. The document you presented shows that the positive fiscal position is a good indicator for public finances, and the explanatory memorandum states that Estonia is ultimately implementing a conservative fiscal policy that supports the growth in the welfare and security of our economy. Now I understand that the new government coalition that is being formed will give up a positive fiscal position and a conservative fiscal policy. In doing so, you will advise the Riigikogu to abandon the positive budgetary position and conservative fiscal policy and to start living for the future. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U62	The 2017 state budget has been transferred at the end of September and has a structural surplus of 0.2%.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U63	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U64	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Good thing the Auditor General is still here. My question is about strategic planning. The Auditor General has said that we do not have a simple and clear system of strategic planning. You've said it is. The Auditor General has said that there are, in fact, no clear and clear guidelines for both members of the Riigikogu and the government, according to which strategic decisions should be made. Please tell us more about this! Does the Auditor General not understand, or is something still wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U65	Thank you. The Auditor General has made quite a number of recommendations and I would say that most of them are fully accepted by the Ministry of Finance. If we look at taking account of the earlier recommendations of the Auditor General, we will see that the state budget has become much more transparent from year to year. The opinion of the Auditor General shall be taken into account. I would point out, for example, that if in 2014 the Auditor General suggested that precisely what is related to the transfer of one year's state budget to another year would be more comprehensive in the execution report and provide more detailed information, then in 2015 you will see that this recommendation has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U66	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I ask you the same question I asked the Auditor General. He just told me to ask you. It is a question of the liquid reserves of the State. Point 33 of the National Audit Office's report, which you have certainly read, states that at the end of 2014, the liquid funds were in surplus with 300 million, but at the end of 2015 they were in deficit with 300 million. The difference is 600 million. I have examined what this is about, and the Ministry of Finance has always justified this by the bridge financing of the European Union's structural resources. You also mentioned the amounts here: 234 million external instruments and then some 175 million money in the previous period. But the decline is 600 million! And in 2015, Swedbank received an extraordinary dividend of over 100 million, which you promised to reserve. The impact of structural instruments cannot be explained by the long-term decline in reserves. Reserves decreased in 2015, reserves decreased in 2016 and reserves decreased in 2017. Where did the money go?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U68	Thank you. It seems to me that you have achieved what you have wanted through the ages: you have the opportunity to ask honestly. Otherwise, someone's always told you not to ask yet. But I'm trying to answer you, good colleague, I'm trying to answer you. True story, with my best knowledge, and given that I'm sure you have a little more accountant than a politician, I'll give you some insight. Firstly, the change in reserves and the debt ratio is not linked in one way to the budgetary position. The calculation of reserves shall be cash-based. However, the budgetary position is based on accruals data. The main differences are due, for example, to the recognition of tax revenues. In addition, cash flows also reflect public financing operations which are not included in the budgetary position as these amounts are not included in revenue or expenditure. There are also differences in the calculation of external resources. If, according to the accrual-based accounting principle, external funds are recognised in a neutral manner, income shall be taken into account in an equal amount of expenditure, cash flows shall reflect external funds in accordance with the cash-based accounting principle, on the basis of actual payments and receipts. This is also the main reason why last year's reserves decreased despite the fact that the government budget balance was in surplus at EUR 27 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U69	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! We discussed the state's real estate policy at length here with Mr. Auditor General. You, approving the country's 2015 economic report, probably also took stock of the country's real estate policy in 2015. What is your own assessment of the trends and results of the country's real estate policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U71	Thank you, good questioner! Well, we're going to pursue a policy that's once been decided for a long time. The policy changed at one point when the state decided to centralise certain activities. In addition to real estate, we have support centres and we have started to centralise various procurements. But when we talk about State Real Estate, this decision was made once, and in order to execute this decision, various ministries have transferred more and more of their assets to the State Real Estate by renting it back. As far as the backgrounds of this former decision are concerned, why it was ever brought into operation, it is mainly the reasons which the Auditor General pointed out. Since many ministries did not collect any additional money to carry out their current repairs until that moment, they basically lived from capital repairs to capital repairs. This is certainly not sustainable. The second reason is that competence gathers in one place. After all, different public procurements are needed, and if assets are pooled in one place for management, then the competence is there. We're here today, I'd say, not halfway down the road, but over the hump. I may be wrong, but I think about 60% of the assets must be clarified, but in any case more than half of the data has been transferred to the State Real Estate. I think it's the right direction. It has been criticised over time, but I think it is right to bring together competence in one place and it should be continued.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U72	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U73	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! I ask why we are doing what we are doing here in the Riigikogu at all and why we are doing it now. After all, you remember the report by the Special Committee on State Budget Control prepared in spring, which was prepared by my colleague Kristjan Kõljala. Among its conclusions and recommendations was, firstly, that the annual report could be dealt with not by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but by the Special Committee on State Budget Control, and that this process could take place earlier, before we begin to process the state budget for next year at all, not in the middle of the procedure for the state budget for next year. And many of those who answered the questions relating to the report thought that perhaps the Riigikogu should not be the body that formally endorses this annual report. Please comment on these spring thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U74	Thank you. Of course, the Riigikogu has the right to define and decide how it wants to process something and when it wants to process something. In general, there has been a tradition of this in all years, with three financial years being looked at at at at once in the autumn. First of all, what we are doing right now, perhaps looking back at last year, we will draw our own conclusions from this both in the context of the use of property and in the context of achieving the objectives set. Have they been fulfilled? The second is the current year, 2016. You have completed the process of amending this budget in Parliament by approving the amendments that are intended to be made during the current financial year. It should always be taken into account that the budget is to be drawn up in the autumn of the previous year and that, as a general rule, any changes must be made before the end of the current financial year. There are circumstances that cannot be foreseen. And the third document is about next year. There's always the past, the present, and the future. I think it is very reasonable that the Riigikogu also looks at the past. After all, the same collection has confirmed the music of the future, so we need to see if it fits in with the past. It must also be taken into account that there is a period of six months which can be implemented in the various annual accounts compilations, and after that there are different consolidations and finally auditing by the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U75	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It's a good thing you talked about the past, the present and the future. I have a similar point and a question. The IRL has always been very concerned about the implementation of the budget balance rule and even proposed that the balance rule be enshrined in the Constitution. The previous governments have complied with this rule very carefully, both the Reform Party and the IRL have considered it important. Reading and listening to the speeches made by the Prime Minister-designate of the new government on this subject, it turns out that he does not think that balance is very important. What is your position as Minister of the IRL and also as the person who will most likely put together the budget in the coming years? Should we follow the balance rule and the current IRL and Reform Party policies, or do you intend to change it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U77	Thank you. I cannot say who specifically sets up the budget for the coming years, this is the issue of the 'division of competences' of the next coalition. But I think it would be more reasonable to concentrate on the questions we have on the table today. I have said that fiscal policy must stimulate the economy if the economy is not at the level we want. And budgetary policy must cool the economy when we have boom years and in reality it can be followed by a crisis. Fiscal policy is certainly one of the instruments for economic recovery or cooling. But this is a separate issue, and I think that we will be able to debate the fundamentals and trends of budgetary policy for a long time in the coming period.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U78	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U79	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! I ask you for an assessment of why there is a difference in understanding when it comes to borrowing into investments, either in the private sector or in the public sector. We encourage the private sector to take out loans, but it is as if the public sector must not do so. Let me give you a concrete example. If a decent Tallinn road had been built with a loan ten years ago, it would now be ready. Right now, for about the same amount of money, only Mäon could be built. And it's going to take five years to build the Mäon. Does that satisfy us? Why don't we just take a loan? In the future, this loan would look very cheap. Why is the public sector not allowed to borrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U80	You see, now we so quietly open the roof shutter and lean from last year's recapitulative statement for the financial year 2015, to other deeply philosophical issues. But that's not a big problem. I always try to answer as much as I can. I have said this before, too, that borrowing should not be an end in itself. I've said it many times. After all, the Estonian state has taken out a loan. If we look at the responsibilities of the Estonian state, we have liabilities to the EIB in the order of half a billion euros. In addition, we have concluded an agreement with the EIB on another 200 million loans for possible co-financing in the implementation of EU structural funds. So in essence, there is no loan from the devil. It is certainly important, however, that loans should not be taken to cover current expenditure. If you have running expenses at some point, you'll have them next month and next year. And one day you may not be able to borrow next month and next year. If the loan is to be taken for investment, it is certainly possible to speak on this issue, as you rightly said. But they must be designed for infrastructure investments or other investments that directly or indirectly benefit Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U81	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U82	Thank you. I will return to myself and to the question of Remo Holsmer. One of the tasks of this document is to provide the necessary information to the Riigikogu for new budgetary decisions. So I ask you as Minister of Finance: do you think that Estonia should give up a positive fiscal position and a conservative fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U83	Thank you. As I said to Remo Holsmer, I think that the Estonian state should stimulate the economy. And at a time when our GDP is not at the level we have expected, the so-called GDP gap will arise and the budgetary position will be negative. We are currently expected to have a higher GDP than we do, and there are several reasons for that. But the most important thing is whether we want to stimulate the economy with our fiscal and fiscal policies, whether we consider it necessary. When we talk about the near future, I think the good questioner knows that our level is not as high as we have expected. Our certain figures actually require us to have more GDP than we do. Consequently, we need to stimulate the economy more. How to do this is a separate question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U84	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U85	Thank you, Honourable President. Honorable Minister! I would like to continue on the subject of the procedure. You said nicely that we need to consider the past, the present and the future. If I take your word for it, we're done dealing with the present, but the future is still a little messy. And now we're looking into the past today. Various institutions in Estonia must be able to approve their annual accounts for the previous year by 30 June. Why is it impossible for the Estonian state to do the same? One could make sure that we end our spring session with a backward view of the financial year of last year, and in autumn we start working on a new state budget for the coming year. Is that technically possible, in your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U86	Thank you. There are no double standards in our country. The State also has an obligation to put together its report by 30 June. But in the Riigikogu there is, how to say, an intersessional period. Let's call it that. And when this intersessional period is over, the summer vacation is over, the consolidated annual report will be handed over to the Riigikogu. These procedures just take so long. If you look at when this report was handed over and when the final procedure is, we will see that it has taken some time here in the Riigikogu as well. So it can certainly be said that the state has exactly the same standards as the private sector. There has also been talk about bringing this procedure to an early stage. Years ago, there was a proposal that three months could be given instead of six months, because many institutions, such as banks, are also able to get ready for work in a very short time, and they are able to keep track of their balance sheets all the time. But so far, this proposal has not fallen to fertile soil, and so the six-month rule applies in terms of auditing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U87	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U88	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I think three times the Auditor General has gone to the speaker's office and asked for some lousy expression. I'm sorry about the expression. EUR 200000 for audit purposes where the amounts allocated for defence costs have been used in a targeted way. On all three occasions, the government has found that this money cannot be found. Now, in your report, you are saying that, but I would still like to know if this situation is improving. You write here that it actually poses a direct threat to our independence of the State Audit Office or government. Will this situation continue, so that more and more money goes to armaments, but the National Audit Office must find money at the expense of other things to investigate the feasibility of using it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U89	Thank you, good Member, for this question. I can tell you that the years have done their job: the drops that have driped on the stone have dripped in the right place. We have agreed with the National Audit Office that there will be additional funding next year. You have rightly pointed out that the capacity of the National Audit Office must be better. Ultimately, this will contribute to an even better picture of the feasibility of using the money in the future. Not that it's not good today, but then the ability to explore more areas of activity is greater. So next year we'll be on a whole new level.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U90	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U91	Thank you. I will continue on my previous question. I understand that fiscal policy is to be relaxed. You did not answer whether the IRL would hold its positions or not, but you rightly said that monetary policy is not only fiscal policy, but also fiscal policy. My second question in the context of the past, the present, concerns labour taxes. When I look at the old Fatherland programme, which says that we tax consumption and not income, and I recall all your statements that labour taxes should be lowered in Estonia, because it helps create jobs and improve the business environment, the question arises as to what about the future government. Are you still in the same position that labour taxes should fall in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U92	Thank you. You want me to say we need to get out of stasis. The 1.4% that we see against the last 2015 recapitulative report does not satisfy us and we must come out of this position. We're doing everything we can to do that. Let us see if growth will be better in the coming years than we have expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U93	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U94	Thank you very much. I have always followed your good ideas closely. You missed one question today. IRL set out the idea of a budget balance requirement in the Constitution. I remember you must have been a part of this at the time. Today's report shows that this idea will no longer be passed on. So, my question is, do you, as an IRL member, object to this idea of your party?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U95	Thank you. No, of course not. I will never object to any idea, whether it comes from the IRL or the Reform Party. That is, in the sense that I am always prepared to talk about all the ideas that are raised on the table, even when the proposal comes from the Reform Party. So I don't mind. But it is certainly important that any idea from any party should always be clear how it benefits Estonian society, the people of Estonia. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U96	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U97	Thank you! Good speaker! I've been listening to you, you said in a very loud voice that you have to come out of stasis. And when you summarise all your answers, I understand that, in order to come out of stagnation, the IRL is willing to abandon its principles and to raise labour taxes. If necessary, you are also prepared to borrow to cover running costs. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U98	Thank you. I am now going further and further than the 2015 recapitulative report, but I have relaxed the answers and I will try to answer all your questions, because I feel that this debate in the Chamber likes and I really do not have any problem talking about any subject. I'm sorry to say this, but your question reminds me of the style of the Central Party that was once a good opposition party, let's say so. What do I mean by that? With all due respect, a background was created that didn't really exist. And then this background started to go higher and higher. I think it is very important that both our policy today and our policy for the future contribute to the improvement of people's well-being. That's what we have to work for. This means that our economies must grow, our policies must contribute to economic growth, and economic growth will also increase the well-being of people. That should be our goal, and I believe that this is our goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U99	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U100	Thank you very much. I have a little concern about the constitution. It will not be changed every year and not in relation to ordinary budgetary policy. Did I get it right that now we could change the constitution and put the budget balance in it? This can be done once, it cannot be done every year and every coalition during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U101	Thank you. The 2015 Annual Summary Report has not said anything about amending the Constitution. And looking back at last year's economic figures, I can assure you that nothing suggests the need to amend the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U102	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U103	Thank you! Good waitress! Indeed, the debate is pleasant. But I didn't get an answer to my question, so just in case, I'm gonna ask you over. Is it possible to borrow to cover fixed expenses if you need to get out of stagnation? I'd like a yes or no answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U104	Thank you. As regards the endorsement of the 2015 recapitulative statement, it is very clear how much our fixed costs were last year. I can tell you what our assets were like. As of 31 December 2015, we had property for 16.3 billion. It also shows what our costs are, what our revenues are, what our final position was by the end of the year. By the way, the 2015 budget was put together by the 2014 coalition, the Reform Party and the Social Democrats coalition, which planned this budget with a deficit of 111 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U105	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U106	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Is it not one way out of stagnation that the state guarantees a level playing field for its companies? As we know, farmers have not received transitional support for three years, I do not know whose fault. However, we know what the situation in agriculture is. Should not one of the main tasks of the State be to guarantee equal conditions of competition for its companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U107	Thank you. I'm like a sparring partner here. You can argue with each other in the meantime. Of course, everyone must always have a level playing field. It's natural, no one's arguing about it. The Estonian state has worked throughout the ages to ensure that, for example, non-payment of taxes would not be a competitive advantage for anyone. Of course, it should be noted that the various subsidies generally distort competition at present. I'm afraid so. But there is nothing to do, it is a general policy that has been agreed in Europe. But in itself, the payment of subsidies certainly distorts the conditions of competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U108	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U109	Thank you for a very pleasant discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U110	Now I would like to ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Mr Remo Holsmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Accepting the State's Summary Report for the financial year 2015' was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 11 and 27 October and 7 November. Ly Sari, adviser to the State Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Juta Maar, head accountant of the state, gave an overview of the draft and answered the questions. Auditor General Alar Karis made an overview of the relevant audit report of the National Audit Office. As the Minister has already introduced, the content of the draft is as follows. The purpose of the summary report of the state financial year is to give an overview of the achievement of the goals set in the state budget, the financial position of the state, the economic results and cash flows, and to enable the Riigikogu to carry out its task of controlling the Government of the Republic. It also gives the government the opportunity to explain its activities during the accounting year and to provide the necessary information to the Riigikogu in order to make new budget decisions. I think this previous debate was a very constructive introduction to the budget for the coming years. The Minister of Finance introduced the report to us in depth and also signaled what was waiting for us. The National Audit Office found that the report correctly and fairly reflects the state's financial position and the economic results and cash flows of the end of the reporting period. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the accounts of state institutions, state-owned foundations and state-owned companies are also largely well organised and the annual accounts are largely free of material errors. The questions raised by the members of the Commission and the debate concerned the use of state reserves, the inclusion of financial lease payments in the budget, as well as loans and the refinancing of possible loans. Following these discussions, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for the Tuesday 15 November session, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on Friday 18 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U112	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U113	I think we had another procedural decision. Tiina made me faces from the back of the hall...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U114	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U115	Not 5:15, sorry, yes! The Head of the Secretariat of the Finance Commission made good faces for me because the time I mentioned was wrong. Not 5.15 p.m., but 4 p.m. I hope this is acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U116	Ladies and gentlemen, the President will necessarily announce the right time. But now it is time for the political groups to negotiate. The political groups do not want to negotiate. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 298. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 298 amendments, including 18 November at 16 a.m. We have dealt with today's second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U117	Let's keep going. The third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Minister of Finance Sven Sester, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and related amendments to other laws, which bears the number 321. The draft has three main objectives. Firstly, to ensure that every consumer has access to bank accounts. Secondly, to facilitate the transfer of daily settlements from one bank to another. And thirdly, to provide the consumer with a better overview of how much money is spent on payment services. The draft is based on a European Union directive called the Payment Account Directive. When it comes to better access to bank accounts, obligations to ensure this will be placed on banks by the bill. Upon the entry into force of the Act, the bank has an obligation to open an account for any natural person, or consumer. The person must have a document on the basis of which he or she can be identified. The bank cannot refuse to open a bank account even if the consumer has previously had a problem with payment. This provision also applies to foreigners in Estonia who may come from other countries of the European Union as well as elsewhere. Among other things, beneficiaries of international protection or those applying for international protection have the right to request the account to be opened. The bank account refers to the normal current account. In conjunction with the current account, a bank card and regular payment services such as cash payment and withdrawals and standing orders must be made available to consumers. These services are referred to as basic payment services in the draft. The Bank may, in principle, refuse to provide basic payment services only if there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing in the case of the applicant. Nor does any bank have to provide services that it has never provided to anyone before. For example, if the bank does not have ATMs, it does not have to purchase them under the present draft. Of course, banks do not have to provide services to anyone free of charge. However, the draft establishes the principle that the fees for basic payment services must be reasonable and proportionate to the level of income of Estonian residents. More detailed guidelines for determining a reasonable remuneration can be established, if necessary, by a regulation of the Minister of Finance. Opening a payment account in Estonia is usually free of charge for Estonian citizens. However, in the case of Estonia, the European Commission considers a bottleneck to be a large account opening fee for foreigners. In the European Union, it is on average about EUR 40. However, according to the Commission's impact analysis, depending on the credit institution and the country of origin of the person, non-residents in Estonia are required to pay EUR 50.250. As a result of the legislative amendment, foreigners legally present in the European Union should not be charged more for basic payment services than the Estonian residents. There are no major problems with discrimination against clients in providing banking services on other issues in Estonia. Compared to other European Union countries, there is no bank account for a very small part of the consumer population in Estonia. If there are only 3% of people in Estonia who do not have a bank account, for example, in Romania this figure is 55%. However, easy access to a bank account is essential in the everyday life of the consumer, also ensuring social security. These requirements will apply throughout the European Union, as the draft is based on a directive. Thus, it will also benefit Estonian citizens if they study or work for a longer time in another European Union country, for example. The draft provides for two further changes aimed at improving the consumer's situation in the use of payment services. The draft facilitates the transfer of daily settlements from one bank to another. This will encourage competition and put pressure on the prices of payment services. In principle, it is sufficient for the consumer to apply for the transfer of the service to the new selected bank. The new bank must itself arrange for the transfer of the service from the old bank to it. This will all take place within a relatively short period of time, i.e. a maximum of 12 days. Finally, the draft will also provide a better overview of how much money is spent on payment services for each consumer. For example, banks and other payment service providers will be obliged to automatically provide the consumer at least once a year and free of charge with an overview of all fees paid. However, banks often use many complex terms in their price lists, so the same terms as 'account management', 'fixed order','settlement credit', etc. will have to be used in future reviews and price lists across the European Union. In summary, the draft creates a number of new consumer rights. The Consumer Protection Board will monitor their compliance. In addition, the draft gives the Financial Supervision Authority the task of keeping a website where consumers can easily compare the prices of the most common payment services. According to plans, it will be a website of myraha.ee, where you can find such information already. As regards the entry into force of the law, it should, to a large extent, enter into force in general terms. The entry into force of the Act is linked to the adoption of an implementing regulation of the European Commission concerned, as regards the fee schedule and the overview of charges for payment services. This part of the Act is expected to enter into force in the second half of 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U119	Thank you, dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have the same question, which we also dealt with in the Committee on Monetary Affairs a little bit, but I am going to question for the sake of clarity. A credit institution is obliged to provide the same services as it already provides in accordance with the requirements of this Directive. For example, ATMs. If there is an ATM network, this service must be continued. But the question is, how does this happen in practice? If SEB or Swedbank shuts down their ATMs in rural areas, how can it be assessed? This service is no longer guaranteed in the same volume. In view of our disunity, this may be a bigger problem than in other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U121	Thank you. As I said, if the bank has not provided any service in the past, it will not be obliged to put up ATMs, for example, in connection with the adoption of this directive. However, the question arises as to whether this directive will improve access to services in peripheral countries. This is not directly the aim of this directive. The aim is to reduce discrimination in the sense that if you still offer any services, they should be available to all your customers. Of course, the bank is expected to follow its own criteria, such as costs in one place or another and the number of its customers, and it will make these decisions accordingly. What is important, however, is that he must not afford discrimination, for example by refusing to provide one of the services he offers to others. You can't do that. I think if the bank decides to close some bank offices at some point in time, it's still based on his business interests. But he must not, for example, serve one person in a bank office in the outskirts of the country; he must not serve another because, for example, this person has previously had problems with payment. He must not refuse service; he must not discriminate against anyone. If there is a bank office, it must offer services to everyone. This is a very important point in this directive. To date, banks have refused to serve people for reasons related to payment disruptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U122	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a co-report?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and related amendments to other laws at its meeting on 10 November. Minister Sven Sester presented the draft as the initiators' representative. As has already been said, the main objective is to transpose the so-called Payment Account Directive into Estonian law. I will present the issues and issues that we addressed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. One topic was that opening a bank account in Estonia is not a problem and how this bill tries to solve this problem, but we do not have this problem. The originator's response was that the Directive also covers countries where account opening is a problem. What these specific reasons are not known. There was an example that 55% of people in Romania do not have a bank account, and 3% in Estonia. The originator also explained that opening an account in Estonia to a resident is usually free of charge, with a fee of up to 250 euros for a non-resident. The differences between the directive will disappear, and this is what the Minister emphasised here that it is precisely the elimination of discrimination that is an important aspect of this directive. The aim is also to put pressure on banks to be in the market with better products. It must be easy to switch banks. One important aspect is that at the end of the year, the bank has to inform all its customers of the amount of fees. Members of the Commission had a question about why it was urgent to adopt the law and why it was not initiated earlier. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law reads that it was to be transposed as early as September. The Minister explained that the deadline for transposition of the Directive had passed, but it took longer to consult stakeholders. For example, the discussion was about how to share supervision between the Financial Supervision Authority and the Consumer Protection Board. According to the Bill, the Consumer Protection Board deals with the opening and compliance of the account. There was a question of how in practice the customer should be informed about the fees. Is it sufficient for the bank to place the price list on the website or to inform each customer at the end of the year how many specifically charged fees were charged? And does this also affect the administrative burden on banks? The Minister's reply was that there must be a separate notification and no separate fee should be charged for this notification. It was a question of whether this draft law had been discussed in the various registers concerning the exchange of information between banks. The originator's response was that we generally have two types of registers: a negative and positive credit register, the latter being private initiative and voluntary, and the customer's consent must be in this exchange. There was also the question of the entry into force of the bill as a law: what does this conditional entry mean? The originator explained that the entry into force of some of the provisions was linked to the European Commission's implementing regulation and that such an entry into force design had been used in the past. Then there was the same question that I asked in this Chamber today: how can I understand the bill's demand that the bank ensure the availability of services? For example, how does this apply to ATMs in Estonia? According to the originator, the idea is that if the service has not been offered before, there is no need to create a new ATM network, but to ensure the availability of the services currently provided without any regulation of the number of automatics. As a result of the debate, the Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 15 November (consensual decision) and to close the first reading. There were 8 members of the Commission in favour of this proposal, one against and no abstention. The Commission proposed that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 29 November at 5.15 p.m. This proposal was also consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U124	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a desire to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 321. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 321 amendments, including at 5.15 p.m. on 29 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U125	We will proceed to today's fourth item on the agenda: Draft 285 of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I will briefly present the procedure for dealing with this draft. First, the presentation by the representative of the author is up to 20 minutes, then the presentation by the representative of the commission is also up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. Representatives of the political groups and committees will be heard during the negotiations. And now the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Estonian Centre Party. I ask Siret Kotka, Member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U126	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft decision of the Riigikogu initiated by the Central Party Group, which is addressed to the Government of the Republic. Its proposal is to grant transitional support from the state budget in 2017 to farmers in 2020 and the maximum amount allowed under the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. Indeed, according to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, Estonia, together with other new Member States, can provide additional support to its farmers from the state budget until 2020. This will compensate farmers in the new Member States for lower levels of direct aid to the European Union compared to producers in the old Member States and avoid unexpected and significant reductions. For Estonian farmers, paying out of the state budget at the maximum amount allowed by the European Union would mean an additional EUR 70.6 million for these years. This year, it was possible to support Estonian farmers from the state budget for almost 21.5 million euros. Unfortunately, the government did not consider this important and it was not in the state budget. On the other hand, our neighbouring countries found opportunities to do so. And Estonia last paid €22.4 million in transition support in 2013. In 2014, EUR 24.5 million was not paid to farmers and EUR 23 million was not paid in 2015. And as I said earlier, in 2016, or this year, the Estonian state was able to pay and support farmers for 21.5 million euros. Unfortunately, this was not done. Next year, farmers could be supported by almost EUR 20 million. Unfortunately, this is now zero in the 2017 draft state budget submitted to the Riigikogu and this is where our proposal comes from. The truth is that today's mistrusted Prime Minister has tried to talk in this very chair about crisis aid to farmers, both in the form of top-up or top-up support and in the context of crisis aid. But in order for us to remain clear, in fact, in the current draft state budget, the transitional support line is zero and there is only crisis assistance. We believe that the country should find an opportunity to further support its farmers in order to mitigate the negative effects of the Russian import ban and to help keep farmers competitive. Transitional support would help businesses overcome temporary difficulties, ensure the stability of the agricultural sector and the overall capacity of competition in the common market in the European Union. Due to the loss of milk quotas, milk production has increased in many Member States. This again means pressure on the price of milk, which in turn affects farmers in a negative direction. The agricultural sector is also heavily affected by the Russian embargo on agricultural products in the European Union. Following the imposition of sanctions, the turnover of exports of dairy products has decreased significantly. According to the Ministry of Rural Affairs, in the first quarter of this year, the export turnover of dairy products was 29,7 million euros, which decreased by almost 12% compared to the previous year. But compared to 2014, for example, 46%. The total losses of the local dairy industry amounted to 6.4 million euros in the first quarter, and the last time this loss was at all in 2005, if it was 0.7 million euros. These figures clearly show that agriculture is going through very difficult times. In the summer, the average fee paid to producers per litre of milk fell to about 20 cents. According to the 2013 Rural Economy Information Centre, the average cost of producing 1 kg of milk is 31 cents. The buying-in price has increased slightly by today, but the price has already disappeared from Estonia by more than 10,000 cows, in fact we can talk about the number of 13000s and also the number of very many jobs in rural areas. While we compare ourselves with neighbouring countries, Latvia and Lithuania, the number of dairy cows in Estonia has fallen considerably faster than in Latvia and Lithuania. In order for you to understand, this amount is 2.5% in Latvia and 5.5% in Lithuania, while in Estonia it is 10.7%. The question is, why is that? And just so you understand, the answers come from the payment of grants. In Latvia, subsidies per cow are paid twice as much as in Estonia. While an average of 975 euros per dairy cow is paid in Latvia, in Estonia the difference is clearly twice the difference of 522 to Estonia's detriment. And so we have to think that if an Estonian athlete goes to the Olympic Games, he will run 100 metres along with other countries, not 150 metres. However, this situation is currently the case for Estonian farmers, who have to carry out unequal competition in the foreign market. We must understand very clearly that if we want the Estonian farmer to still be competitive, we must give the same conditions as those others do. That's why I'm addressing you, good members of the Riigikogu. We improve this situation and support our farmers, support domestic food. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U127	Questions for the waitress. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U128	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I have a question for you. Looking at all these figures, at unequal competition, at the price of milk, and at all the crisis that agriculture is experiencing today, I am surprised that there are still quite a number of people in the country who are still doing this job. They often work at losses, continuing only because it is their life's work and so much strength and everything else has been put in it. If they have to, they'll put some personal money in it. How do you feel about the reason why, in fact, although the number of farmers has fallen dramatically, there are still quite a few farmers in Estonia and they are still working in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U129	Good questioner! I think that's your answer, too. You work under these conditions, even though your sector isn't actually easy either. These people, who are engaged in agriculture, have mostly been working for generations on land. They have a little more content; they have values for how to protect and protect Estonia. It's kind of a tradition. I think that the farmers who are currently taking care of us are clearly showing how they keep the Estonians up during the crisis, which is because the government led by the Reform Party turned its back on them. But today we can change it and support farmers as they wish and as they deserve. I would also like to say that quite a number of people are confusing transition support and crisis assistance. These are absolutely different support measures; they cannot be put in a single boiler. If other countries are able to pay both transitional support and crisis assistance, the Estonian state must also be able to pay it. Only in this way will we ensure that our farmer, for example, can compete with farmers in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. We operate in a common market. An Estonian farmer has long since stopped competing with another small Estonian farmer. He's competing in a big market. It's a reality. As far as Estonian milking is concerned, this sector is still top-notch in Europe. And if we do not support it now, we will simply make the success that we have achieved through our experience over all these years with a great deal of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U130	Thank you, Siret Eagle! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The rapporteur for the Committee on Rural Affairs is Terje Trei. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed draft 285 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic, initiated by the Central Party Group, at its meeting on 8 November. The discussion was also attended by Mai Talvik, Head of the Agricultural Market Management Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Britt-Marena Tiikmaa, Adviser to the State Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance. As representative of Siret Kotka's initiator, the draft was presented to the Commission, as is the case here today, and I am not going to repeat Siret's text. In short, I would like to sum it up by proposing that the government should pay transitional support to farmers from the state budget in 2017 to 2020 at the maximum amount allowed by the relevant regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. At the meeting of the Commission, the presentation of the draft was followed by a discussion of the members and invited guests of the Commission. I noted that the 2017 state budget was already in the Riigikogu proceedings and asked the initiator's representative whether the payment of this grant was taken into account in the state budget, if it was possible to find money for transitional support. Siret Kotka replied that, on the day of the submission of the draft decision, on 12 September, it was not yet known where the funds could become transitional support. But he confirmed that in the debate on changes to the state budget, the Central Party Group would find a source of this cover. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, Britt-Marena Tiikmaa, stated that both emergency and transitional support were discussed in the government during the procedure of the state budget strategy. The Ministry of Finance was of the opinion that there would be no support for the growth of subsidies, especially if it did not extend to all those in need. The Ministry of Rural Affairs considered that transitional support was necessary and directed the matter to the government to decide. In the government, it was decided to give preference to emergency crisis assistance. The reason why this was decided was explained by Mai Talvik, the representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Transitional support has emerged from additional direct payments valid until 2013, while the legal bases for payment remained unchanged. Transitional support may only be granted under the right to an additional direct payment entered in the register. Mai Talvik pointed out that the references on the basis of which the payment entitlement was determined have become obsolete and are not representative of current production. The basis for determining the payment entitlement shall apply to arable crops and beef production as of 2006 and milk production shall be based on the production quota determined as of 31 March 2007. The minimum payment entitlement shall be granted to a producer holding at least one hectare of agricultural land. Thus, there would be a situation where about 20% of the aid would go to those who have already ceased or significantly reduced production. Financially, it's about 4 million a year. However, those who have subsequently started to produce or whose production has increased would be partially or totally excluded from additional support. Martin Repinski examined whether it would be possible to change the system and to grant transitional support on the basis of current data. Mai Talvik replied that a written inquiry was made this spring to the European Commission and a negative reply was received. The representatives of the drafter in the Commission, Siret Kotka and Martin Repinski, did not see a major problem in the allocation of support on the basis of outdated data. Mr Repinski felt that the problem was rather that the new players would not receive transitional support, not so much that the cessation of production would be entitled to support on the basis of outdated references. A discussion of the draft procedure followed. Commissioner Merle Kruusimägi, of the Committee on Rural Affairs, pointed out that there was a need for technical corrections to this text before the draft was submitted to the plenary. He gave an overview of these improvements, which are as follows: According to § 53 (2) of the Rules on Standard Techniques of the Bills to be dealt with in the Riigikogu, the preamble to the draft decision of the Riigikogu must end with the words 'The Riigikogu decides'. The content of the decision is set out in a decisive part, i.e. point 1 for the draft under discussion. In accordance with § 29 (3) and (4) of the above-mentioned rule, the text of the draft text must indicate, by reference to European Union legislation, the author or grantor of the act to be referred to, and the type and number of the act. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. The following procedural decisions were taken by the Commission: to propose a draft to be placed on the agenda of 285 plenary sessions by 15 November, to appoint Terje Trei, a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs as rapporteur, to propose a final vote on the draft 285 and to submit the correct text of the draft to the assembly. All the decisions were consensual. As this is a decision of the Riigikogu to propose to the Government of the Republic, it requires a majority of the composition. There was no substantive vote in the Committee on Rural Affairs and no guidelines were communicated to the assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U132	Questions for the rapporteur on behalf of the Commission. Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! In your presentation, you indicated that the solution proposed in the draft for the agricultural sectors in crisis would actually mean that we would put different producers in different competitive situations at national level, because those who were not producers before 2007 would not receive this support, but others who were then and now no longer would receive it. Wouldn't it make much more sense to increase crisis assistance? Then those who really need this money would receive support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U134	Thank you. I myself am not a big supporter of non-discipline. But at the same time, knowing a little more about agriculture, I can safely say that agriculture needs some subsidies, especially as we are in a pan-European competition. However, I certainly cannot support this draft decision as it has been put forward. Because I still think that we should not confuse the situation in our internal market so that some people are deprived of support, even though they deserve it. I see a possible solution in ensuring that money is not paid out in the amount allowed, but part of that amount. Let's say next year the amount of transitional support is nearly 20 million, it could be reduced rather than paid out in full. And then, if this money is found in the state budget on proposals, maybe it could be diverted to the top-up second pillar, or MAK. Those who are currently excluded on the basis of their references would be able to apply for support there and there would be more equal competition on the internal market. In that sense, that is a good question. If our fields fall from the sky hatches to a different degree from sun and lightning, then perhaps we are smarter than the sky hatches and try to distribute subsidies more equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U135	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U136	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I'd like to respond in part to Kristjan. I mean, if it was that simple, I think it would have been done a long time ago. Then we wouldn't be talking about top-up right now, we would be talking about crisis aid. We cannot increase crisis aid by this amount. The following year, crisis assistance will be paid in full in substance. The only thing we can put in there is EUR 450,000, but we're talking about 20 million right now. Clearly, the amount of crisis assistance is too small. The problem is that the area is overregulated, perhaps by the European Union, because we cannot decide for ourselves what we pay to whom. Many countries want to pay more and use this opportunity when they at least separate the top-up. If we do not use it, we will put our farmers in an unequal position with others. The question is whether the Reform Party Group supports it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U137	I cannot answer for the whole group; I can speak specifically on my own behalf. I don't think Kristjan can answer, such a dialogue cannot be started right now. Using this amount over 20 million if we find it in the state budget, we have the freedom to decide for ourselves. We can decide whether we are paying out this so-called first pillar money in full or in reduced volume and directing it to MAK, where we should not have any restrictions. In this way, we can better decide how we will support those people that you, Martin, were worried about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U138	Dear Kristjan Kõljalg, one question can be asked to a waitress. No further questions. Thank you, Terje Trei! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Martin Repinski Centre Party, please! I'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U139	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll talk a little bit about what many may already know, but I hope it doesn't hurt to repeat it. In fact, I very much hope that the eight or seven and half minutes I have left will be used by most members of the Riigikogu to reach the hall and press the green button. In fact, non-payment of top-up is clearly the application of the principle of unequal competition. I know very well that almost all the countries that have this opportunity pay this to their farmers. I do not think I need to explain to you that the European market is actually common. In fact, it would not be quite fair to say that the whole European market is fully united. But at least there is a market in the Baltics. If Latvia has found the possibility of paying breeding premiums and some other benefits, which Estonia does not pay, apart from top-up, then the situation is not exactly the same and competition is not fair. Of course, we too did more for our farmers. But a fresh survey by the University of Life Sciences clearly showed that, in fact, Latvia pays twice as much for one animal. There's no question. My only question is, how do we even have so many farmers who are still able to deliver in this area? I mean, it's really hard right now. The secret, it seems to me, is that agriculture is not a business for farmers. It's their life's work. Even if farmers do not earn anything, if they have to put their money into the game and, for example, sell their woodland and farmland, they still continue to operate. They hope that in the future the situation will improve and that they can at least work at zero. There's no profit at all. In a situation where farmers were doing well and the cost of production was almost twice as high as this year and the subsidies were decent, farmers actually met the country. The agricultural organisations themselves offered to give up the top-up, because perhaps it would make sense to put the money somewhere else. I think that's why there's no top-up now. A lot of politicians don't want to pay it. So we see again that no good deed will go unpunished. For one moment, farmers came to the country and offered to divert this money, they have been punished. But just now, when it is very difficult and the country should shoulder it, we have not done so for many years. Of course, the current coalition negotiations show that the situation is changing. How much it changes and how fast we don't know, but at least there's hope that next year, the top-up will be paid out. The price of milk has also started to rise. My personal opinion, however, is that even if the full amount of subsidies is to be paid, it is too little. In fact, we should find a way to do the impossible thing: to pay the aid afterwards for all the years when farmers did not receive the aid. We should do this. Of course we're not talking about it, but that would be right. It would be an honest attitude towards farmers, many of whom I repeat, are continuing to do so, even though the situation is extremely difficult. Last year, too, I said that in some ways it is sneaky to advise farmers that if your business works in a negative way, stop, don't deal with it. Let's see what's really going on! If a farmer goes to the bank to borrow land or technology, or to build a farm, because it is not possible to operate at all without it, the bank almost every time it requires him to provide a personal guarantee. He guarantees a loan with his personal assets. This means that if he has problems during difficult times and some representatives of the country advise him to cease his activities, the farmer must give up all his life's work and often give up his house and other personal property that he has. It may even be that this is not enough, because agriculture mostly requires huge investments, without which, as I have already said, it is not possible to act at all. If we compare ourselves with Latvia, how is it possible that Latvia has found an opportunity to pay more? How can we not find it? Of course, it can always be said that the budget must be balanced and that we also have many other problematic areas. But let's be honest, everything depends on priorities. We often hear an apology that it was decided to pay for crisis aid instead of top-up. But that's no excuse at all. Top-up is top-up, crisis assistance is crisis assistance and in a crisis situation, both top-up and crisis assistance must pay maximum. In addition, we must insist that the European Union allows us to pay more and more in times of crisis assistance, as well. We know very well where it all started, and I remember very well how our farmers were promised that they would be helped, that no one would leave Estonia alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U140	On behalf of the Group of the Kristjan Kõljalg Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U141	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have also heard from the presentation by the rapporteur in the Committee on Rural Affairs, this draft is a clear risk that some 20% of the funds could go to someone who no longer deals with agriculture. On the other hand, those who are currently active may or will actually lose their support, but as of 2007, they did not deal with agriculture. The rapporteur for the Committee on Rural Affairs also had a solution. I think that if these funds are really found in the budget, it would make sense to use them in such a way that we do not sprinkle the money so that it, for example, 20% goes to the wrong place. I think there are better solutions. Today we are paying crisis aid to those sectors where the real problem is great, and this must be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U142	There is no further wish for negotiation. There were no amendments to the draft and we will go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! Since this decision requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, please do a check-in! 48 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic, tabled by the Centre Party Group 285. Please take a stand and vote. There were 42 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no one opposed, with 4 abstentions. The decision was not taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U143	We will begin the first reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Committee on the Environment. The rapporteur is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U144	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 24 October this year, the Committee on the Environment decided to initiate a draft law amending the Air Protection in the atmosphere Act due to the urgent need to supplement the procedures for the use of auction proceeds from the trading of emission allowances and to include a provision to the effect that a recovery decision on the basis of trading schemes designed to mitigate climate change is an enforceable document. The purpose of the draft is to specify the procedures for the use of the proceeds from the auction and to include in the law a provision under which the holder of funds may enter into an administrative contract for the use of funds obtained from the trading of emission allowances. The draft law also contains an additional provision according to which a decision to recover the aid granted under the Air Protection in the atmosphere Act and the Air Protection Act in the event of the annulment of a decision to grant aid granted under different trading schemes shall be regarded as an enforceable document within the meaning of Paragraph 2 (1) (21) of the Code of Enforcement Procedure. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu supported the draft by consensus and also decided to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur. The Act would enter into force on 1 January 2017. In short, the implementation of the Act will lead to the expansion of the administrative activities of the Foundation KredEx, including the compulsory execution of the recovery decision. This does not involve additional costs for the Estonian state budget. The amount of aid recovered on the basis of the recovery decision but not yet recovered is EUR 953578. Upon the entry into force of the amendments, it is possible to direct claims to enforcement, i.e. it is a solution that will enable the Estonian state to recover more than 1 million euros. It has not been possible to do so in the past due to the culling of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U145	Questions for the waitress! Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm asking about the same unrefundable amounts of money. Can you tell me who these people owe you in this hall? Are these local authorities or private individuals who owe the entire million and who are to be recovered?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U147	Good colleague! We can provide you with a more detailed list in writing. However, the problem has actually arisen in connection with the decree of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications of 12 June 2011. It bears the number 69 and concerns the conditions and procedures for using the green investment scheme, the support for electric cars. It is a violation of the requirements for using the aid on this basis and, for this reason, a compulsory execution of the decision to recover the aid. Recovery decisions have been taken from spring 2014 to autumn 2014 at around 10%, which represents a total of EUR 1 million. It's about electric cars. However, with regard specifically to your question of whether it is private individuals or local authorities or legal entities, we can clarify that for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-15_U148	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the Committee on the Environment is to conclude the first reading of draft 319. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 noon on 17 November. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.34 p.m.
