ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Question Time. Checking for presence. 46 members of the Riigikogu registered for Question Time. The members of the government in briefing are Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, Prime Minister today, Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljurand and Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Due to the number of people who wish to ask the question, I am also giving an opportunity today to ask one additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U2	The first questioner is Kadri Simson, and his question is to Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, who is in charge of the Prime Minister's duties today. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U3	Thank you. Dear Jevgeni Ossinovski! You are in the office of Prime Minister today, and that is why I am asking you about an issue that may not have a direct bearing on you, but it certainly does indirectly. Yesterday, the Spring Economic Forecast of the Ministry of Finance was published. It suggests that this year's economic growth will remain at 2%, although the state budget is projected to grow by at least 2.6%. The prospects for next year are rather modest rather than worrying. However, you are already in the process of drawing up the state budget for the following year. I expect all members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber to find by consensus that there should be an increase in the minimum income tax free level next year, the question is only what amount. I would therefore like to know your position. How much should the income tax-free minimum be on 1 January 2017 so that you personally are satisfied with the increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U4	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, the economic forecast that was presented to the public yesterday has also passed through the table of the Cabinet. It is true that the expectations of growth have been reduced for several reasons. In the longer term, the growth rate of the economy cannot satisfy us either in Estonia or in Europe at large. Of course, forecasts of this type also influence budgeting, because they calculate both revenue and expenditure. When we are talking about this year, it must also be seen, alongside the prospect of poorer growth, that the first months' tax receipts have been much better than expected, so that no negative corrections will be made in the budgetary context. However, with regard to putting together next year's budget, indeed, this process has begun at the level of the government. Starting next year, the government office will start putting together the state's budget strategy for the next few years and, after discussions between us, we will certainly introduce them to the Riigikogu. It is true that there are certain financial coverage gaps in 2018 but today it would be premature to talk about costs or possible additional revenues, as the government has not yet started a substantive debate on the preparation of the state budget. Let's start next week, like I said. But, of course, in general, it is clear that the tax-free minimum should be higher than it is now, as the tax burden on people earning average wages is too high.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U5	Kadri Simson, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U6	Thank you. Dear Minister for Health and Labour, I understand that today's government has a decision that several taxes that are common in Europe are not simply collected by Estonia, for example, in the case of classic corporate tax. It is therefore a constant problem that the taxes that are collected will not be able to fulfil all the tasks that the state should carry out and that all possible new taxes will be invented. The latest news is that the liver may be added to the e-cigarettes. But information has also come that a new tax is being developed in your ministry, which is called 'fat tax' in the common language. Would you introduce this new tax and how it should be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U7	Thank you. Firstly, one of the objectives of tax collection is certainly to bring together the necessary budgetary revenue to ensure a good level of public service. The second question is, of course, not the total amount of money purely, but how fair it is to impose taxes socially. It is true that in 2014 Estonia became the country where the Gini index, which measures income inequality, is the highest in Europe. So, in recent years, social inequalities have increased and tax policy certainly has a role to play in this. I think this is certainly an important debate in which the views of the political parties in the government differ considerably. The international comparison shows that in Estonia, property and capital taxes are indeed the lowest in the European Union. This means that we tax on becoming rich, or labour, say, generally at the European average level, but if you look in there, the tax burden on people earning average wages is very high in Estonia. At the same time, we have unprecedented low property taxes. This, however, certainly does not make sense either tax policy or socially. As Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, I believe that the share of property taxes could increase, but, as has been said, government departments are of a different opinion here. As regards new taxes, taxes affecting health, their primary objective is not budgetary but behavioural. When we are talking, for example, about increasing taxation on sugar drinks, the practice in other countries says that money does not get very much from there. In general, the result is that products become less sugar-containing, or healthier, and that is also the main reason why they could do so. But the analysis is still in the early stages of the ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U8	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U9	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Last year Estonia's overall tax burden did not decrease, but rather increased. One tax that is not yet reflected in the tax burden is the so-called hidden tax, i.e. network charges, which Elering casssed from all consumers. I ask you if you think this is normal, that the state is secretly collecting tax and paying back to the state budget for it. Last year, the state took out 31 million euros in dividends. Couldn't that $31 million stay in companies' and people's wallets so they could decide for themselves what they'd do with that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U10	Thank you. The network charge is undoubtedly a large part of people's electricity bills, but its overall objective is indeed to ensure Elering's necessary financial capacity to invest in improving networks, including for example, reducing electricity losses, which again saves consumers' money and increases the efficiency of our electricity system. The impact of some investments on consumer prices, such as the impact of electric cables between Finland and Estonia, has been significant. Indeed, in very many months, the price of electricity in Estonia is times cheaper than it was in a closed market. If we didn't have that cable, there wouldn't be a price. So, however, investments have been largely justified. I think it is basically right that we finance our electricity networks in this way. However, there are indeed certain issues on which the government has agreed that further analysis is needed. In remote areas, for example, connection to electricity networks is extremely expensive. For certain smaller companies, this is in fact too much, but it hampers the development of entrepreneurship. This is undoubtedly a major obstacle. In this context, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has promised to propose a solution on how the state would be able to create mitigating measures in such situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U12	The next question is for Foreign Minister Marina Kaljuranna. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! The Nord Stream 2 theme has obviously received less attention than the importance of the problem requires. Frankly, I haven't heard your point of view, the Prime Minister has said anything here. What steps will we take to first show that this project is in conflict with the European Union's energy strategy? What are the legal arguments, possible policy developments in the European Commission and elsewhere? This has very profound consequences for Ukraine, for example, but not only. This is clearly a geopolitical project, not an economic one. What are we doing to prove our point of view and to lead our partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U14	Thank you for this question. Indeed, Estonia supports the strategy of the European Energy Union, which aims at diversifying energy sources, suppliers and infrastructure and reducing the European Union's dependence on one specific or few sources. This assessment has been expressed by our Minister for Economic Affairs when he joined the letter written by the Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Romanian, Polish, Hungarian and Slovak Minister for Economic Affairs. In March of this year, the Prime Ministers of the three Baltic States, Romania, Croatia and the four Visegrád States also signed a letter to the Commission, where they drew attention to the same provisions, the same principles as I mentioned. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is, of course, of the same opinion as the Government and Prime Minister of the Republic. I have raised this issue at all my bilateral meetings, both with countries directly affected by Nord Stream and with the United States and other countries. Yes, I fully agree with you that Nord Stream 2 is not an economic project but a geopolitical project. And in terms of principles, it does not respond to this energy policy or strategy, which the European Union supports in words. It also fails to meet the requirements of Central European countries. Their situation is deteriorating, not to mention Ukraine, which is losing transit money. It is now a matter of the Commission's competence. The Commissioner and the Commission's Legal Service should now present their views as soon as possible. We will get to know them and then plan our future activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U15	Please, Andres Herkel, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary! We obviously agree on the assumptions. The question, however, is what we can do and how we do it. My point is therefore: what is Estonia doing to increase its legal and other capabilities at all in order to make a stronger contribution to the European Union's energy policy, bearing in mind the forthcoming Presidency? It's not like the Troubles are gonna end.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U17	Thank you for this question. Naturally, our lawyers are also analysing the situation, of course there is close cooperation with the Commission's Legal Service, but in this case we still need to wait formally for what the Commission says. Yes, we have read about the interviews that the Commissioner is saying. Indeed, the Commissioner has said that this project does not comply with the principles of the European Union's energy strategy. However, at the moment, all legal provisions have not yet been analysed in detail. So we think it's right that we wait for the analysis, get acquainted with it and help prepare it alone. However, as regards Estonia's future behaviour, we can also talk about environmental impacts. What we did when Nord Stream 1 was discussed, we are also going to do now that we are being asked for an opinion on the environmental impact analysis. Proactively, we have no one to offer it to, we can give it to when we're asked. And we're ready to do it, the preparations are already underway.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U18	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Yes, we also asked for or expressed an opinion on the environmental impact of Nord Stream 1. But we know that in the end, this project had absolutely no impact. Don't you think it's just bureaucratic stretching tactics in the comfort zone, we'll wait for an analysis and we can talk about environmental impacts? Have we not taken concrete steps, for example, in relations with Germany, to clarify our positions and to involve other countries in the neighbourhood in order to exert more pressure so that Nord Stream 2 does not become a dangerous and harmful project for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U20	Thank you for this question. When I answered for the first time, I mentioned what the Government of the Republic has done in the name of this objective, the Prime Minister, has done the Minister of Economic Affairs, I have done it. Yes, I have raised this issue at all the meetings that I have had with those countries that are directly affected by this project, including Germany, but also with those countries that are not directly affected by it. I've even met the Secretary of State of the United States, John Kerry. We have always explained our views to the Commission, our reasoning, our legal analysis. We're working all the time and we're going to keep working. At the same time, we must also wait for the Commission's opinion, but that does not mean that we will not do anything in the meantime. Our next steps also depend very much on the conclusion of the Commission's Legal Service.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U22	Next, Mr Helme will put the question to Mr Pevkur, Minister for the Interior. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U23	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Allow me to quote you myself. On 13 October last year, when there was a debate on quota refugees, your words were: 'Those people currently covered by the relocation and resettlement scheme are, in particular, Syrian and Eritrean citizens. ' Unfortunately, there is no time now, otherwise I could bring a number of other quotes aside, where both Prime Minister Rõivas and the Minister of Social Protection Tsahkna have confirmed that we are taking refugees from Syria, especially women and children. Now the first immigrants have been accepted and they are not from Syria but from Yemen and Iraq. I have a simple question, Minister, for you and the entire government: why did you lie? For a year, you lied to Parliament, to the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U24	Thank you for your question. Read it again. The same thing you just quoted didn't work. I really said in October, above all. What was agreed in the Council of Europe was in the first place Syria and Eritrea. But there was also an additional clause on the countries of origin from which the application rate for international protection for people who came exceeds 75%. These countries are now not only in Syria and Eritrea but also in Iraq, Yemen, and since the last days of last year, 28 December, Bahrain, the Central African Republic and Swaziland are among them. The percentage of granted applications for international protection for refugees from these places exceeds 75%. That is why the countries of the European Union have agreed jointly that this is the rate we are pursuing. Once again, I come back to the very beginning, we've never lied to anyone. We have said that we are welcoming people from Syria and Eritrea in particular, and we have therefore also communicated our preferred profiles to our partners. So in that sense, everything is perfectly correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U25	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U26	Thank you. It is not a question of what Europe has agreed with each other, because you, the Prime Minister and other ministers have repeatedly assured us that Estonia itself will decide who, where and how it will take. I stress once again that not only in this Parliament, but also in the public and in the media, the government has always confirmed that we are taking women and children from Syria first and foremost. Now we took a young man from Syria, a young man from Yemen and a completely random family from Iraq. We've been communicating with one thing all along, and the reality is something else, that's lying. That is why I have another question. If you don't know the difference between truth and lie, but the truth is what's the political point you need, how can I believe you're telling me the truth right now? How do we even know when you're telling the truth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U27	Thank you. Your emotional rhetorical expressions are certainly possible, but I assure you once again that if you read through what I said to you in this Chamber and what I have said before, we have followed the principle that, above all, the most vulnerable groups. We have accepted these views in writing. Among other things, as a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs, you have been present and heard it. If you want more detailed information, you can always go to the website of the European Asylum Support Office, where answers to the most questions asked are available, i.e. questions that are frequently asked. You can get confirmation of what I told you here. As for whether Estonia makes its own choices, yes, we will. In the case of families that are currently under assessment, and also in the case of families who have already arrived in Estonia, Estonia itself carried out an evaluation, an interview, a background check. They also had a health check when they arrived in Estonia. We make those decisions ourselves. So if you think telling the truth is lying, it's your personal subjective opinion that I can't help.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U28	The question to be specified by Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U29	Thank you. Good minister! If I re-read this quote, the word 'in particular' that you emphasise means 'in particular' in Estonian, that is to say, most or more we accept from Syria. Unfortunately, the Syrian was only one of the seven, i.e. it was not above all because it was first and foremost accepted from Iraq. Here's the question. You stressed that we are members of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Quite right, I am a member there, and we have always opposed the quota system, perhaps the only party that has always vocally raised this problem. Since asylum was given to the Iraqi family, but ISIS is known to hold only one part of Iraq, this family was to receive protection from some form of persecution or threat to life and health. Can you tell me exactly what the argument and reason were? Maybe it was Iraqi Christians who are being bullied and killed there every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U30	Thank you. Once again, I recommend that we read what has been agreed jointly between the countries of the European Union. What was agreed was that if an asylum seeker who wishes to be granted international protection makes a statement, it will be based on whether or not a person can participate in the relocation mechanism. The assessment shall be based on whether or not the percentage of applications for international protection for persons who have come from the country of origin exceeds 75%. In the case of Iraq, the percentage of positive decisions on international protection is higher than 75%, which is why Greece was able to offer us this family. We appreciated the possibilities of this family and, of course, we were guided above all by the fact that it would not be a threat to the people and security of the Estonian state. As a result of the discussions and evaluation, we agreed to relocate this family to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U32	The next question is to the Minister for Health and Labour in charge of Prime Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Nearly six months ago, I asked you about the hospital service right here in Question Time. More specifically, I wanted to know if and when the Health Insurance Fund would start financing it in isolation from nursing care, because it is known to be a fundamentally different service. Your response at the time and your plan to separate hospital funding from nursing care from the former care treatment, since 2017 nursing care, of course, pleased me as well as all the institutions involved in the subject. Of the three institutions that have carried out most of the activities and provided services, one has also submitted an application to the sickness insurance fund. Please give an overview of how far the Health Insurance Fund, in cooperation with the Ministry, has reached this issue! Will it be financed separately from the Health Insurance Fund from 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U34	Thank you. Since the question you asked was a beautiful general nursing care service, I do not have a very precise answer to your question, unfortunately, because the board of the Health Insurance Fund, according to the law, works as a public institution. The Health Insurance Board, which has been chaired by me in office, has not discussed this issue. That's a formal answer. In essence, the plan is, as far as I know, the financing of the same hospital service is transferred to a separate line within nursing care. This does not mean that the service is physically separated, but that the service receives a separate price. This seems to me to be a reasonable course, and the Health Insurance Fund has assured me that there is still a plan to start it in 2017. If you have other data, I'm sure we'll be happy to check it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U35	Monika Haukanõmm, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have the letter from the Estonian Health Insurance Fund to the NGO Pallium, who made this application. It has been said here that the decision of the Health Insurance Fund Council does not request the Minister of Health and Labour to propose to the Government of the Republic that it be added to the list of health services. My question came from a little bit of it. Has the Health Insurance Fund, despite your position and general opinion, acted the other way round? They say that the service will not be added as the underlying assessment instrument has not yet been developed. It remains to be hoped that the evaluation instrument will still be developed during this year and that experts will be involved to deal with it every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U37	Thank you. In general, the logic of approving the services of the Health Insurance Fund and listing health services has been that it goes hand in hand with putting together the budget for the new year. Before doing so, the Health Insurance Fund will do all the preparatory work to include possible new services in order to enable the Council to process it in the next budget process, i.e. in 2017. As I said, I am not familiar with the details of the letter, but I assume that the attitude expressed by the Health Insurance Fund was that an evaluation instrument will be developed during this year. The decision as to whether this service is included in the list of health services can be made after the Health Insurance Fund has developed the assessment criterion and all of this is properly budgeted in the context of next year's budget. But I am certainly of the opinion that specialists in this area should be involved in the development of this instrument. I really hope the Health Insurance Fund takes that into account. If you have any other information, I'll tell you again, let me know, we'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U38	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister! You and I both know that there is no such service as nursing care. This was once described in the maintenance network development plan, but since the maintenance network development plan was not fully implemented ♪ it was not successful, it was expelled from there and it was called independent nursing care. In numbers, it's like everything's fine at 2,100 nursing hospitals. However, the development plan also described that nursing hospitals should be limited in time. Those to whom God gives years of life are often old people in such a state that, in 60 days, they are not allowed to get back on their feet, and they need the help of a nursing hospital for the rest of their lives. When this end comes, only Peter knows in heaven. Is such a service, time-limited permanent nursing care, however, coming or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U40	Thank you. The theme is correct in itself. In older people, chronic patients usually need a very different service depending on their condition. The service must be much more integrated between healthcare and social services. There is not much of this kind of integration at the moment. Indeed, there is now quite a strict health care service, independent nursing care, with time constraints, as has been said. But the current situation is not satisfactory in many ways. There are certainly people who need this service for a long time, as well as those who need it for the rest of their lives. There are also those who do not really need 24-hour healthcare, but instead need care. We have a number of examples of situations where a family cannot or cannot take care of its own elderly relatives. They need not health care, but a care home as a social service. However, since care services are organised in very different ways in local governments, sometimes unattainable expensive, there have been cases where, excuse the expression, relatives, old people have been dealt with from one nursing care hospital to another within the same days simply so that the person can be cared for, even though he does not need 24-hour medical supervision. That is why we are currently developing the necessary assessment instrument that can be applied at the level of family doctors, so that the family doctor can assess the needs of the person on the basis of a certain model and determine both social and health care. In short, we are currently reviewing this issue and all aspects must certainly be taken into account, on the one hand, within the health system, but, on the other hand, much more closely linked to the social system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U41	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U42	And now the moment has come when Foreign Minister Marina Kaljurand will answer Mart Helme's question. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! You have repeatedly promised that the Republic of Estonia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will do everything we and you can to free in India for the third year in prison or, let's say, the shipguards in detention. Unfortunately, it is not germinated or rotted. My question is what the State Department has done in the last few months to get the ship's guards to come home.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U44	Thank you. Yes, indeed, both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government and the Estonian state are doing everything in their power to ensure that shipguards can return to their homeland as soon as possible. We can do this on the basis of international law and international agreements. But we cannot interfere in the internal affairs of another country; we must respect the outcome of another country. At present, the proceedings have returned from the Indian Supreme Court to the local court office whose decision has been appealed. So, according to current information, we're waiting for the next trial in June. In the meantime, our consul, our ambassador, has been in contact with the ship's guards to improve their conditions in the detention facility. They get food, they get mattresses, they get a doctor's visit. They have been granted a non-guaranteed loan so that they can pay for everything they need. We have raised this issue and we will continue to raise it at political level. The last question was discussed at the EU-India Summit last week in Brussels. There, too, the European Union as a whole expressed concern that shipguards have been away from their homeland for so long. We are also preparing alternative solutions. One possibility is the agreement on the exchange of detained persons with India. The text of the agreement is coordinated and the Ministry of Justice should submit it to the government for approval in the coming days, in the coming weeks. This gives the opportunity to implement the bilateral agreement and bring them to Estonia on this basis, if the ship's guards cease to appeal. I once again assure you that this is a priority for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as for the government. We will deal with this at political and human level in India and the European Union and in cooperation with other countries for as long as our citizens return to their homeland.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U45	Mart Helme, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U46	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have to admit, these explanations are sound, but there is no villa. As regards the issue of the European Union, I think it is rather British pressure, because there are British sailors there too. My question, however, is much more specific. Why, unlike, for example, cyclists, for whom we have found an intermediary in France, have we not been able to take similar steps with regard to the men currently in India? Why does the Estonian state not accept these legal expenses and household expenses, but instead lend them a loan? I think it is shameful that we do not take care of our citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U47	Thank you for this question. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! As a former diplomat and ambassador, you know how difficult it is to solve a matter with a country. It's complicated with Russia, it's complicated with India. There are certain principles under which foreign ministries, states can raise their own issues and resolve matters. And that's what we're working on right now. This certainly cannot be done by force and certainly cannot be done by interfering in the internal affairs of another country. As regards the provision of domestic aid, yes, the costs of legal representation in the Supreme Court have also been paid. At the moment, the Estonian state has no other option than to grant an outstanding loan in order to compensate for other costs. As far as previous cases are concerned, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deals with about 700 consular cases a year. Each of them has its own people, its own content, its own principles, and we approach them individually. Even now, in the case of Indian shipguards, we are using the method and communicating at the levels that are beneficial.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U48	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U49	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I remember, I think that about six months ago or a little more than the same subject was up, you said that the Indian Government has promised that as soon as a conviction comes, the government will give them an amnesty and send them home. The conviction came, but they're not home. Where did that promise go?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U50	Thank you. Yes, indeed, the Indian Government has said that on a political level they can pardon and send our citizens back to Estonia once the judgment has come into force. However, the judgment has not entered into force. As I said in answering the question, there is an appeal. The next hearing should be in June. These decisions are the decisions of the ship's guards themselves. The government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can offer solutions. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I can plead for mercy. But to do that, the decision has to come into force, they have to stop appealing in the process. In order to be able to bring them to Estonia on the basis of a bilateral agreement, they must refrain from appeal. At the moment, they have preferred to continue to appeal. It is up to us, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the government, to support them as far as possible in making decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U52	The Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, is asked a question by Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U53	Good Chairman! Good minister! The biggest leak in the history of offshore companies has taken place through one of Panama's law firms. This leak has been named 'Panama Papers' or 'Panama Package'. According to Äripäev, many Estonian citizens and companies related to Estonia as well as one bank operating in Estonia are also affected by leakage. The events themselves have gone so far that the Prime Minister of Iceland has resigned and British Prime Minister Cameron walks on so-called hot rocks. Have Estonia's research bodies also started proceedings on these papers? Is there any kind of investigation going on to see if there's any interest in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U54	Thank you for your question. If we talk about this Panama Leeks, we must, of course, start with the fact that, internationally, as far as we are aware now, the main source of the case is the consortium of international investigative journalism, whose website is icij.org, where you will get more information if you wish. As far as we know, there are no journalists from Estonia. So the pieces of information published in the Estonian press come from others. The research press consortium includes two journalists from Finland and one from Latvia, five from Sweden. Estonian journalists, however, must rely on the information of their colleagues. As far as Estonian research bodies are concerned, of course, let us say, there is still much unpublished in this case. I'm sure every day brings new information. We have to go back a little bit, because some of the information is going back decades with all the information. There has been an opinion or doubt, to which I cannot assign any value of proof, namely that it could be related to Estonia because we also had companies providing offshore services a dozen and more years ago. The most famous of them is probably Divec, which went to graduation through criminal proceedings. However, Estonian research bodies have not started any proceedings. The FIU collects information, as far as possible, through its partners and, of course, through the public. If there are more specific references and if there is a need to start the procedure, the Estonian research authorities are ready to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U55	Arthur Talvik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U56	Thanks for the suggestion. Icij.org is a familiar page and a look has been taken. Several members of the European Government have strongly condemned this activity, not to leak, but to the fact that many leading politicians and public figures in Europe have used this offshore company system to cover their 'taxes' or to save corrupt money. I have not heard of anyone from the Estonian Government condemning such practices. Do you have a plan or are you afraid to do it just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U57	Thank you. Any tax evasion is deplorable. If the fact that I say from this panel of the Riigikogu that we are condemning it would somehow make life better, then it would be fine. But in fact, it is still the task of the tax administration to see that taxes have been paid in Estonia. If someone has committed a crime or other offence, then the Estonian research authorities will certainly deal with it. Therefore, as I said, we do not yet have any information on the extent to which Estonia may be affected. These figures, whether they are 880 companies or 80 shareholders or something else, can be found on the Irish Times website, where there is a reference to Estonia, and certainly from other sources. But we don't have any data in the time frame. For example, we do not know if it could have been the same Divec or anyone else. If further information is needed, a specific position can be taken. But, of course, it does not matter to me whether it is kept in Panama offshores, tax evasion, or whether it is cheating on Estonia's own VAT legislation in any other way. Either way, it's deplorable. Tax evasion means that every tax that is unpaid means a lower pension, a lower salary for a rescue officer and a lower teacher's salary. So that's how simple life is. The better we collect taxes, the more honest all businesses and individuals are when declaring and paying taxes, the more we have social wealth to share together.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U58	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U59	Good President Good Minister of the Interior! If it turns out that one of the top politicians in Estonia is sitting in Tallinn, Brussels or wherever he is also involved in these matters, will it be the same as the Icelandic Prime Minister that he resigns?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U60	Thank you. I don't like divination much. Well, then, life will show. It certainly depends on the scope of the case and also depends on the person. But once again, each and every one of us, both as an ordinary person and as a politician in this Chamber, has a responsibility to make our actions transparent. Similarly, if someone has gone to hide or hide his or her income, responsibility for it must be given either politically or before the law, as the law provides. In any case, of course, if there are any circumstances in which there is a breach of the law in force, it must also be held responsible. If morals or ethical beliefs are exceeded, then the decision of each politician himself is whether and how he behaves and what it means to anyone in the sense of resignation. But in any case, I will say once again that it does not matter whether it is that Panama Leeks or some other way of circumventing tax laws. People have to pay the taxes imposed in the country. If they don't do it and hide their profits, then they have to be held responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U62	The next question is the reply of Foreign Minister Marina Kaljuranna. Asks Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U63	Thank you, good Speaker of the Riigikogu! Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! The issue is about the Refugee Convention adopted in July 1951, which entered into force in Estonia in 1997. It defines in a very specific way the concept of refugee, its status and the prerequisites for protection in another or third country. My question is based on Estonia's decision to accept persons whom we can name in various ways, i.e. we are talking about the Iraqi family. As Foreign Minister and former diplomat, can you explain to us and also to the Estonian people, voters, what is happening in Iraq exactly? There, as we know, military activities are only in one part of the country, in the north, i.e. it is not a country entirely at war. What persecution or ground-based refugee status was granted to the Iraqi family?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U64	Thank you for this question. Yes, indeed, the 1951 Geneva Convention and its Additional Protocol from 1967 will regulate the status of a refugee as a refugee, how refugee status and other related provisions will be abolished. Yes, Estonia is a party to this Convention and is guided by it. As far as the current migration crisis is concerned, in 1951 the Convention was not written with the idea that it would regulate the current migration crisis. It is therefore necessary to look at the same convention in today's circumstances. In today's circumstances, the relocation of refugees is regulated by the European Migration Plan. Both options are possible under the European Agenda for Migration: granting refugee status and granting international protection. Basically, there is no difference between these two statuses, the difference is the length of time. Refugee status is granted for three years, international protection is granted for one year. The Government of the Republic decided to make the granting of international protection, in particular, a year from now, the conditions will be reviewed and the next decision will be taken. As far as countries are concerned, the Minister for the Interior, on his first or second question, has already answered very thoroughly that the list of countries from which people from which refugee status or international protection is extended is constantly changing. It is estimated that at least 75% of those from these countries will be granted refugee status. In this sense, Iraq is on that list, Yemen is on that list and it is still Syria. If you specifically ask about the situation in Iraq, Daesh is currently having a huge impact, still despite the progress made by the Counter-Terrorism Coalition. This is why Iraq is also one of the countries from which people need international protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U65	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will try to respond within two minutes. Jaak Madison keeps asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U66	Thank you. Good minister! I will then ask the urgent question specifically and briefly. What was the danger posed to this family by living in Iraq? On what basis were they granted international protection, whether it was religious persecution, it was a threat for race or origin? The Refugee Convention sets out the grounds for international protection at all. What exactly were they? The Refugee Convention does not even mention half a word, for example, military conflict in certain parts of the country. This conflict is also in Iraq. Daesh is also very active in Brussels, as we can see, and in northern Iraq they have certain cities. Southern Iraq is totally Daesh-free, or, let's say, government-controlled. Therefore, please explain to us precisely, firstly, the basis on which this family was granted international protection, and secondly, whether we can talk about them as refugees coming to Europe. The Refugee Convention does not define exactly whether they can also be war refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U67	The question must also be asked within one minute. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U68	Thank you. The Convention on the Status of Refugees defines the basis on which a person is considered to be a refugee or whether he or she needs international protection. These grounds are set out in Article 1 (2) of the Convention. Refugees are persons who rightly fear persecution because of race, religion, nationality, belonging to a social group or political beliefs. As far as these particular people are concerned, the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not meet with them. It's the job of the State Department of the Interior and its agencies, they did interviews with these people. So if you have a more detailed interest in when the interview was held, what was asked and what was answered, then you have to ask the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U69	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U70	Thank you. Well, we asked the Home Secretary, but we didn't get the answer, or worse than we did, we don't believe it. I am still asking about the Convention on the Status of Refugees. We have already been told about this several times here today, and you and your colleague said that it has been agreed in Europe that Iraq is one of the countries that can apply for refugee status or international protection. With the same breath, it is said that Estonia will decide for itself. There are countries in Europe that do not consider Iraq to be a justification for refugee status or international protection. The same ISIL or ISIS or Daesh The Refugee Convention does not say that warfare anywhere in the country is an immediate basis for granting protection. I ask again: what, in your opinion, is the situation in Iraq that gives Iraqis the right to protection in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U71	Thank you for that question. International law works in such a way that it starts with a convention that gives general grounds, and then it is specified by the Additional Protocols, national law, etc. Yes, the Geneva Convention does not name countries, but it defines who is a refugee and it gives refugee status. Countries have been agreed in the European Union. And this agreement, which also passed the decision of the Council, is compulsory for all the countries of the European Union. If you ask for an assessment of Iraq, I dare say that the security situation in Iraq is now worrying and far from saying: there is peace and democracy in Iraq.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U72	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U73	Minister for Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski's Prime Minister is now answering Krista Aru's question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. I know this is not your immediate responsibility, but I also know that you are interested in the problems in Ida-Viru County and you know them very well. My question concerns a major action plan drawn up for the 20152020 period, along with an implementation plan, in which many tasks also have specific amounts of money. What I would like to hear about the success of now is your assessment of improving the availability of essential goods and services, which was to take place as a major programme in 2015. Did this happen, and with what result?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U75	Thank you. The short answer is that it didn't happen. The longer answer is that, indeed, in 2015 Ida-Virumaa was also planned to implement a service centre programme already tested in South-East Estonia in 2012 where additional public funding would encourage the concentration of certain essential services in one place in order to improve their availability. It was not implemented. As far as I know, the Ministry of Finance, responsible for regional administration, says that this subject needs further analysis. In 2016, we will try to find out how to provide innovative and economical access to the services of operational centres, based on experience so far. I am not a regional administration specialist or person responsible for this area, but I have heard that the South-East Estonia pilot project had different results. There were very good examples, so really only the so-called seed money was able to create a long-standing service, but in many cases it remained only a short-term project. So it needs some further analysis to find out how to use it in Ida-Viru County. In fact, there is also the question of the southern municipalities of the county, which are further away from the centre and where population density is low. Most of Ida-Viru County, however, is beautifully well covered by services.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U76	Krista Aru, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U77	Mr. Chairman! The point to be clarified concerns the same action plan. The reimbursement of renovation works of the Narva Alexander Church until 2020 has been mentioned as one of the specific lines. At the same time, we know that the situation with the Church of Narva Alexander is much more serious, and the amount of refunds is set at EUR 485000. Please tell me what happens to the church of Narva Alexander. Has this been discussed, what are the proposals and what will be the reimbursements indicated in the action plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U78	Thank you. Thank you very much for your question. The former regional minister sitting next to me is certainly more competent than I to answer this question, because in the previous government, the Minister of the Interior also performed the duties of Regional Minister. The Minister of Culture is more competent to respond on this issue and has also informed the public of his position on this matter. The unfortunate situation with the Narva Congregation and the Alexander Church has certainly arisen. It is undoubtedly in the interests of the state that the church remains in public use. In the view of the Ministry of Culture, it is important, as the development plan states for the activity, that the loan payments for renovation works of the Narva Alexander Church will be paid. In the 2015 Monitoring Report, the Ministry of Culture stated that in 2015 the Narva Aleksandr Church of SA continued to support state budget funds to meet the credit commitments undertaken to restore the church. So last year we have fulfilled this commitment. The State has invested EUR 2 million in the building and will continue to fulfil its investment commitments until 2017. Thus, the preservation of the heritage protected object is ensured. The question of how the church would remain in public use in a bankrupt situation must now be resolved. Here too, hopefully, the Ministry of the Interior, responsible for religious matters, together with the Ministry of Culture and other actors, will try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U79	In 25 seconds, Andres Ammas won't even be able to ask, not to mention that Evgeny Ossinovski can answer. Thank you, Prime Minister of Health and Labour. Thank you, Minister of the Interior. Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 10th working week session of this House on Wednesday. Transfer of enquiries and drafts. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted and delighted to discuss the question on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. The inquiry concerns a major project on which the Centre Party reports on average once every six months. Every time we have the pleasure of discussing this subject in this Chamber. We are talking about the LNG terminal and the construction of the Balticconnector. In a few words to remind you of this story, it began in 2014, when the Prime Minister of Estonia and Finland agreed that a large LNG terminal would come to Finland and Finland to apply for the construction of a gas pipeline between Estonia and Finland, the Balticconnector. Finland later abandoned its project for some reason and said that they would not build the LNG terminal. There is now complete silence in the construction of Balticconnector. The point is that the deadlines for requests for European Union money are almost over. We would like to know from the Minister what developments have taken place on this issue. Thank you and I wish you a successful working day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U82	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U83	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Estonian Centre Party initiates the law amending the State Legal Aid Act. This issue was addressed at the plenary session last year on 22 October. Unfortunately, at that point, we did not have the Chancellor of Justice's opinion on this issue, and most supported the proposal of the commission to reject the draft. However, no measures have been approved to remedy the situation. § 15 of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to apply to the courts in the event of violation of their rights and freedoms. According to the Constitution, everyone must be guaranteed access to the courts and also have access to legal proceedings. From the point of view of the newly obtained Chancellor of Justice, we consider that the guarantee of the right of access to the Court of First Instance constitutes an absolute fundamental right, the limitation of which is permitted only for very important reasons. The Estonian Bar Association has also noted that fulfilling the requirement to use the state language in a state legal aid application cannot be more important than ensuring access to justice. The language requirements laid down in the current State Legal Aid Act, which apply when an application for legal aid is made, prevent some people from going to court. If the bill enters into force as a law, all people will have equal rights and access to justice in the event of violation of their rights and freedoms. The draft proposes to deprive courts of the possibility of automatically returning a request for legal aid submitted in another language. The amendment of the Act brings the Law of State Legal Aid into line with the principles of Article 6 of the ECHR. According to the draft law, the Act would enter into force on 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U84	The transferred draft shall be dealt with in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and shall be communicated to the addressee if the transferred report complies with the law. Now it's a presence check. There are 87 members of the Riigikogu at the plenary session, no 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U85	We will begin the first reading of the 200 draft law on administrative reform initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Arto Aas, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U86	Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the government, I am happy to introduce the draft law on administrative reform, which has been prepared for a long time in cooperation with experts, scientists, local government leaders and officials. This work has been going on for the last 11 months. This is a historic moment. In the history of re-independence Estonia, the government has never agreed on the implementation of administrative reform in the past, and for Parliament it is also the first comprehensive draft law on this subject. Like the Nordic countries and most other developed world countries, we have a number of demographic processes. The Estonian population is ageing, agglomerating and shrinking, regardless of the government coalition or the regime. Some municipalities have lost 30 to 40% of their population over the last decade. The only thing that has not changed is the structure and administrative organisation of the municipalities. We see that this system is unsustainable. We need to adapt, we need to balance certain processes. The aim of the administrative reform is to support the capacity of local authorities, the competitiveness of the regions and, together with it, the more even development of Estonia as a whole. The aim is to create a qualitatively new level of local self-governance to be prepared to meet the challenges of the future. One important objective is to ensure better services for people. In short, about the preparation process of the draft. As early as last spring, I set up a broad-based committee for administrative reform, consisting of merger experts, university lecturers, representatives of municipalities, ministries, the National Audit Office and county government, specialists in state law and top officials. This committee represented different visions and different world views, including opposition. For several months, we had heated debates and debates on how to implement the reform and which criteria to set. The background was the previous six reform plans and a large number of analyses and studies from both Estonia and other countries. At one point, the panel came to the conclusion that the most reasonable criterion for mergers was the number of inhabitants. The decision was rather consensual. The same model has also been used in neighbouring countries in Finland and Latvia, as well as in Denmark. So Estonia is no exception. After making this decision, we discussed at length what the minimum number of residents in the municipality should be in Estonia. At least 5 000 inhabitants were most supported, although there were also those who saw the bar much higher. From this higher level, the indicative criterion for the size of local governments essentially grew to 11000 inhabitants. The recommendations of the Expert Committee were also endorsed by the Government Committee on Administrative Reform and the Government Office as a whole. These decisions were not made anywhere in the dark behind the politics and hidden from the public. We used Estonia's best experts to make this draft. We have 26 pages of law, over 100 pages of explanatory memorandum and nearly 1,000 pages of background material. Opponents may not like the purpose and content of this draft for political reasons, but there is certainly no reason to suggest that it would have been done hastily or superficially. Absolutely not. Administrative reform is not an easy and uncritical undertaking, otherwise it would have been done 15 years ago. Major changes are often frightening and create uncertainty. Criticism is also true of those who used to complain that reform had not been undertaken at all. It is often understood that the opponents have not really deepened into the content of the draft law and do not want to listen to the arguments put forward. At the same time, there are people who are genuinely concerned about the future of local governments. We must certainly not underestimate or ridicule people's concerns about the future of Estonia's rural areas. But I ask you, are we better worried if we don't do anything? Will the problems of Estonia's rural environment and the deepening of peripheralization be solved if there is no administrative reform if local governments continue to be fragmented, competing for insufficient resources, and the state is forced to continue to take over important public services? Indecision is also a decision. The development so far does not show that small and fragmented municipalities were in any way a good solution for many regions. It is claimed that the merger of several poor municipalities does not have any effect; the result is still poverty. I confirm that independent studies and earlier mergers contradict this argument. By acting wisely, 1 + 1 is greater than 2. The merger experience and analyses also confirm that the financial and institutional capacity of municipalities with a higher population is increasing significantly. In the current small municipalities, the so-called preparedness and management costs are inevitably very high, which is proportionally higher than in the larger municipalities. Money released from government costs can, after accession, be directed directly towards providing basic services to people in education, social protection, culture and infrastructure. The inhabitants of small municipalities will be accompanied by opportunities and services which the municipality did not provide at all or did not provide at an adequate level in the past after the merger. Systemically, business development has started. New social services have been implemented for people, such as social transport services or services for people with disabilities. The availability and diversity of recreational education have significantly improved. Larger municipalities have more comprehensive opportunities to design suitable public transport routes, education and social services. In the case of successful mergers, the best practice of existing municipalities has been taken over. For example, the fees for kindergarten teachers or cultural staff have been raised to the same level as the highest fees for current entrants. After accession, problems in obtaining school and kindergarten places, for example, have diminished due to the loss of mutual settlement and children's ability to go to the nearest kindergarten or school. The merger gives the employees of the municipality the opportunity to specialise, thereby increasing the expertise of the officials. In a municipality with a smaller population, one employee must be able to cover a wide range of areas, which require different competences. Often that's impossible. Specialists who were previously unable to be employed, such as a development, cultural or educational adviser or child welfare specialist with a professional education and a proper salary, have been employed in the merged municipality. This means better support and new opportunities for citizens and businesses. Administrative reform is also to a large extent a matter of self-confidence. It is not possible to agree everything in advance to the details for years; not everything can be solved at the level of the law. It is also important to understand that the administrative reform itself does not open or close any schools, kindergartens or libraries. These are issues that are considered and decided by the local people themselves as council members, municipal or municipal leaders, whether the municipality is a little larger or smaller. An example is the recently reached topic of whether there will be children in the region of Vigala for one or two schools in the future. It must be resolved on the ground anyway, regardless of the administrative reform. The active role of communities in formulating and defending their interests both in the accession negotiations and in the post-accession process. When preparing for accession, this can be done by means of an accession agreement. We come back to the substance of the law. So far, Estonian law does not state anywhere what capacity the municipality must have to be in order to be able to carry out all the functions of self-government in its own right. The results of the various analyses, the views of the experts and the discussions referred quite clearly to the involvement of the population of the municipality in the capacity of the municipality. On the basis of the assessment of the competence of the various service areas, officials and financial capacity, the panel of experts reached a recommendation to apply the minimum number of inhabitants as a criterion of 5000. A municipality with at least 5 000 inhabitants will have the professional administrative capacity to perform the statutory functions of local government and to provide high-quality public services to its residents. At the same time, the experts considered the municipality, which had at least 11000 inhabitants, to be a local authority covering a larger region and enabling a qualitative change in the proportion of strategic management. The draft therefore also has an indicative size of 11000 inhabitants and is supported by the payment of additional merger support from the state budget. The draft law on administrative reform provides for changes to the administrative-territorial organisation on the initiative of the local council or the Government of the Republic. In both cases, mergers will enter into force with the regular local elections in 2017. We consider it important that as much of the mergers as possible take place on the initiative of the local councils themselves and exactly as is agreed on the ground. To this end, regional committees that immediately start work will assist the accessionees. In addition, the municipalities are advised by a team of merger consultants. Municipalities have also had the opportunity to ask for help in hiring merger coordinators. The own-initiative accession phase will run until 1 January 2017. The phase initiated by the Government of the Republic will then begin. According to the draft, no later than 15 February of the following year, the Government shall initiate a merger of municipalities which, as at 1 January, do not have 5 000 inhabitants or have taken a decision to meet the criteria for accession. The position of the government to initiate the merger is also expressed by regional committees involving county elders, officials and experts. They will assess which local authorities will be useful and fit the objectives of the reform, taking into account the conditions set out in the draft, but they will also assess which local authorities may remain an exception. In order to be authorised to grant an exemption, municipalities must submit an application, the grounds for approval of which may be essentially divided into two. Firstly, the so-called 'dispersal exception'. In this case, at least two municipalities which form an administrative-territorial logical whole with an area of at least 900 square kilometres and with a population of at least 3500 inhabitants shall join, or at least four culturally and geographically related municipalities with a population of at least 3500 inhabitants shall join. 3,500 inhabitants were considered by the panel to be an absolute minimum. The second major exception concerns the maritime island estate. The local government unit is a maritime island municipality where self-government is exercised. The draft government regulation on changes to the administrative-territorial arrangements will be submitted to the municipalities for an opinion and will have to be delivered within three months, i.e. by 15 May of the following year at the latest. During this period, municipalities will have to agree on important issues for accession, such as organisational and budgetary issues. Accession grants are a very important issue. The mergers initiated by the municipalities on their own initiative deserve support and are paid double the rate of accession subsidy compared to the current regime, as a rule EUR 100 per person. The minimum amount for the establishment of a municipality with a population of at least 5000 inhabitants shall be EUR 300000 for each of the merging municipalities, up to a maximum of EUR 800000. If a municipality of the county size or with a population of at least 11000 inhabitants is formed, an additional amount of EUR 500000 shall be paid to the municipality formed by the merger. It should be noted that the merger grant may exceed the volume of several years' investment in the current small-scale sector. Renovation of schools and kindergartens, building of sports buildings and nursing homes has been carried out with the support of freed resources and merger awards. For the first time, there has been an opportunity to offer business support and to set up industrial parks. This could lead to investments that the tooth didn't start on earlier. Merger aid shall not be reduced in respect of the entry of a part of the territory into the composition of another local municipality. Thus, the right transition of villages is not hindered in any way, nor are the borders of counties an obstacle to accession. During the merger, it is necessary to agree on how the internal management of the municipality is organised, where service points are maintained and what role is given to municipalities and village societies. The shape of the municipality's governance model is in the hands of the residents, so that the local peculiarities can be taken into account. The law gives more general frames here, protects smaller ones, but these frames and rules need to be adapted to local circumstances. This structure, which is suitable for Tallinn, may not be suitable for Torgus. Experts at many meetings have discussed for hours what can be written into law and how to support more democracy on the ground. If the problem gets worse, it turns out that generally these issues are not solved in the same way by law everywhere. If we want local governments to be as autonomous as possible and manage their own lives, how can anyone else know better about the local council how to do it? By law and instructions, the state can provide possible models, from which each municipality can choose its own suitable and adaptable to local circumstances. As a positive example here, it can be pointed out that mergers so far have had a more positive effect on the village movement, for example: the attitude is more professional, the aid is more systematic. As one important guarantee, we have stated in the draft that, if there is something agreed between the parties and recorded in the Accession Treaty during the accession negotiations, its amendment during the duration of the Accession Treaty can only take place by a majority of two thirds of the members of the Council. That is a very high requirement. We also need to talk about what is not in this law. The Administrative Reform Act does not require further implementing provisions and after the entry into force of the Act, all regulations are in place to ensure that the reform is implemented at local elections in 2017. However, in parallel with the processing of the Administrative Reform Act, we will continue to work with the ministries in the Riigikogu in preparing amendments to the sectoral laws. In addition to strengthening the capacity of local governments, cooperation between local governments is also a major factor. In order to strengthen cooperation, we will, for example, create regulation for joint institutions and consider ways of reorganising county self-government associations. We are planning to give municipalities the task of organising the development of the business environment and regional public transport in cooperation with the Road Administration. There will continue to be lively discussions on possible tasks and transfers of funds. I agree with those who want to see better funding for local governments. We have made it a priority for the government to increase the volume of the Equalisation Fund, which would help the poorer municipalities in particular. We have also agreed in the government that we will include a component of marginalisation and dispersal into the model of municipal funding. This is a completely new approach compared to the current model. However, as you know, financing decisions with long-term significant effects will be taken in the process of drawing up a four-year national budget strategy. This is never an easy process, because all areas, all ministries, are fighting for their interests to the end. The money's always missing, it's never over. At the same time, we already know a number of decisions that directly improve the finances of the municipalities. One example is the same merger grant. Over the next three years, we will be ready to pay up to EUR 80 million. That's a lot of money. The organisation of the upper secondary school network and the establishment of state secondary schools will release 20 million euros per year to municipalities by 2023. We have agreed on a measure to support recreational activities financed through local authorities. Next year it will be EUR 6 million, and in 2018 it will be EUR 15 million. At least half or more of the money from the sale of CO2 quotas will be channelled to municipalities in the coming years. In the first order, we would prefer to renovate kindergartens in an energy-efficient way, with an amount of EUR 10 million. Of course, there will be EU aid: 95 million euros to create kindergarten places, 156 million euros to implement the regional competitiveness plan, 205 million euros to clean up the school network, etc. We will also continue to implement the national regional programme. We cannot make administrative reform directly dependent on budget negotiations; rather, implementation of administrative reform is a prerequisite for additional money being allocated to municipalities in the future. We will achieve the most positive effect by reconciling these two instruments. One thing is clear: without administrative reform there is no greater hope of improving the financial situation of municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the administrative reform, larger and stronger municipalities are born from both population and territory. By moving towards the Nordic model, we create the prerequisites for the local governments' role in organising social life to grow. A more capable municipality is a stronger partner for the state, society and entrepreneurs and is a better representative of the interests of its community. The local government leaders have also successfully pushed reform into operation in many cities and municipalities. Accession negotiations are held all over Estonia, although the draft law is still in the Riigikogu proceedings. Currently, 188 of 213 municipalities, or 90%, are involved in negotiations in one way or another. Let's not let them down! I very much hope that the Riigikogu will continue to take the initiative at the government and local level in preparing the administrative reform. I call on you here to work constructively so that we can finally implement the administrative reform and thus shape the best possible self-government arrangements. Powerful municipalities everywhere in Estonia have our common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U87	The members of the Riigikogu have some questions for the initiator of the draft. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U88	Thank you. Minister, you spoke about how you have prepared the draft law on administrative reform, consulted the parties involved and analysed it. But the draft has not been coordinated by the Estonian Association of Rural Governments. It is precisely the Union that unites the municipalities that should be directly affected by the administrative reform. What have you done to ensure that the draft law becomes such that the Land Government Union can also give 100% approval?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U89	We have had very close contacts with representatives of the Association of Rural Governments. They're represented on the panel of experts, they're involved in this information room. Their members have taken the view that accession is good and necessary, that administrative reform is correct, but they do not like the process of mergers initiated by the government. They have the freedom to think so. The local government leaders certainly have very different views. This is also demonstrated by the current highly active accession negotiations. Nothing like this has ever happened in Estonia. We have not yet passed the law, but the municipalities have essentially started to reform, including the smallest ones. The Cities Association supported the proposed draft. So we've done the best we can to get everyone involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U90	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U91	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, the more I listen to you, the more I feel that you are puzzled by this reform. After all, this is not an administrative reform, it is an administrative-territorial reform. What the local government leaders really expect, I too have been one of them for a long time, is clear. They expect, first of all, the financing of local authorities to be fixed, so that real financial autonomy is guaranteed. Putting money in somewhere with a finger certainly doesn't solve this problem. Secondly, it is expected that the tasks will be shared between the central authority and the municipalities. Shouldn't you really align the name of the reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U92	Thank you, that's a good question. If we were to put the law under the law of connecting borders and that is the way we would view it, we would achieve such a result. Our wish has been more. It has been our desire that the local government leaders approach in substance, review the management structure of the municipality, the methodology for internal inclusion, think through the provision of services, investments. What becomes the municipality's name or where the municipality's house is located is really not the most important thing, as is the drawing of borders on the map. That is why, in principle, we have preferred to talk about administrative reform and expect a much more meaningful approach. As far as services and funding are concerned, here, as I said in my speech, our wish is that when municipalities become stronger, bigger, more capable, the ship can be turned in another direction. Today he has gone down the road that the state has rather centralised, the state has rather taken over the services and functions to ensure some level and standard across Estonia. In fact, we could now move back in the northern direction that the role of local governments is increasing. And, of course, with the increase in tasks and responsibilities, financial opportunities must also increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U93	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, This reform agenda does not increase the autonomy of municipalities, but increases the concentration of power. In my opinion, there are two kinds of involvement fraud. The first is that you conduct interviews with residents, and if the result is not appropriate, those people who thought otherwise will get their noses, as Saue already did. Secondly, you allow the councils, but you do not in any way embody their competence. It may even be understood that they form a superior council from the top down. Why are you still afraid of the grassroots level or trying to hog it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U95	Absolutely not. The public administration is, in our opinion, a very good opportunity to involve people and promote local democracy, and we have also written this explanatory memorandum to the draft law. Which model and exactly how is used to create a domain in a particular local government must be agreed on the spot. It is not practical and reasonable to prescribe it from the top, all the more so as the internal governance model of local government is a very important cornerstone of local autonomy. We are not afraid of the grassroots level, we are encouraging it and, if necessary, we will explain in more detail what needs to be done, what can be done. As far as polls are concerned, this obligation is not directly imposed on us by the Constitution, but in order to involve people, to listen and to establish positions, we fully support this regulation. The interview must be conducted. It does not necessarily have to be just a question of whether or not to join. You can also ask who to join, what will be named and much more. This information is also necessary. In this sense, I would not want to give up the search for an opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U96	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U97	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Why is this reform carried out so primitively that the only basis for accession is the population? After all, there is no analysis of which entities are better suited culturally or geographically. Right now, it's just a deal, that's all. It would have been expected that this reform, which lasted for 17 to 18 years, and that it would have brought about a more intellectual approach in terms of how the regions fit together.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U98	It seems to me that you are one of many who have not actually read the draft and its explanatory statement and the accompanying materials. I strongly advise you to get acquainted with them, take time and examine the analyses that have been carried out in Estonia and abroad. We did not start by agreeing at political level how the reform would be carried out. The number of inhabitants was not agreed, but first started with an analysis of how we can measure our capacity in the first place, which still shows the strength of the municipality, the quality of service provision, etc. The current criteria emerged from this work. Are we very original? No, it's not. In Estonia, too, administrative reforms have been carried out, if that is the case, on a resident basis. In 1866, if I am not mistaken, it was stipulated that there must be 200 male souls in the municipality. The population model has also been used in my speech, and I think you missed it in Denmark, Finland, Latvia and elsewhere. It's not that extraordinary. So I suggest you look at these explanations. I don't have enough time here today to read the whole report. But in-depth analyses have been carried out, and if necessary, we will explain them separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U99	If the ambassador wants to, the minister has to read the explanatory statement twice. Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In 2009, the Act reduced the proportion of personal income tax received by municipalities. This certainly reduced the capacity of local governments to carry out statutory tasks. When and how do we plan to change the income base of local governments to increase the capacity of local authorities to organise local life?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U101	Municipal revenues are higher this year and next year than ever before. They are even bigger than in an economic boom, where everyone, including the country, had money like mud. Wages increased by 20%, budget increased by 20%. Unfortunately, this beautiful time has passed forever for both the central government and the municipalities. We need to take into account more modest growth figures, but I assure you that local government revenues have never been so high. This year they are already 144 million euros larger than they were during the boom. But, of course, I admit that all areas, all ministries and also local authorities feel that there is a shortage of money, would like more. It's understandable. Everyone fights for their rights. I also said in my speech that we consider it important to increase the fine-tuning fund. Why is the fine-tuning fund selected? Why not the tax percentage? Because raising the tax percentage, as you mentioned here, helps the most wealthy, helps the beloved city of Tallinn and the wealthy municipalities of Harjumaa. The Equalisation Fund helps more people who are desperately in need of money. Raising the percentage of income tax has been calculated by us, for example, by helping a small Peipsiääre municipality with about 600 euros per month. This is not likely to be a very large increase in capacity if the municipality receives EUR 600 per month thanks to the increase in the rate of income tax due to the booming season. That is why we need to join, we need to increase the fine-tuning fund, we need to take into account the distributed component. When we combine these things, there is probably some tangible effect, but the effect is, of course, less when we take only a few steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U102	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U103	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I welcome the plan of administrative reform to the grand hall of the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, it's at least ten years late. And the cause of the delay, or Reform Party, is currently carrying out this reform itself, which is quite interesting. Unfortunately, in this form of administrative reform, I do not see the point in substance, because the administrative reform plan is based on meeting the number of people. As long as the responsibilities and funding of local governments are not solved, this reform makes no sense in substance. And if the reform does not make sense, why is 80 million taxpayers' money spent on it, knowing how many areas there are in Estonia where money is scarce? The 80 million will cost the reform and the result will be a very big question mark.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U104	I believe that the result is not a question mark, but a plus sign. This is also confirmed by past mergers where merger grants were smaller and the functions and financing model of the municipalities were not changed during the process. However, we can see that previous mergers have produced a positive result. As I said, we are looking for ways to make the municipalities stronger, how to increase their role and their financial allocation. However, neither any discussion nor any proposals received by us have shown that there is some huge revolution in Estonia. We actually know that we have more or less settled in 20 years, which is the task of the municipality, which is the task of the state. The municipality deals with education, social protection, local roads and infrastructure. There are no dramatic amendments circulating in this area. That is the reason we have been looking for if we are to criticise the reform. In any case, mergers are necessary. This will make municipalities more able and, if they have become more capable, we can already systematically look at how to proceed at national level.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U105	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U106	Thank you. Good minister! To begin with, there are 2312 inhabitants in Rõuge, my municipality, and I belong to those people who are most satisfied with the quality of the services offered by our municipality. But I also belong to people who think that reform increases peripheralisation. The reasons for this are the lack of direct democracy and the centralisation of services and power and the increased investment in centres. In other words, it is like a response to regional policy. Do you have any other regional policy measures that will be implemented during or after this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U107	This reform can also address the problems of peripheralisation. Service points can be retained, municipalities and municipalities can be located in different locations, not all of them must be concentrated in the rural municipality centre. There is also an instrument for the inclusion of municipalities. Not all need to develop towards the Centre and this could be agreed upon by the local government leaders in the Accession Treaty. I believe that wisdom and will exist. As far as financing is concerned, as I said, we have agreed that we will develop a component of disunity and peripherality. Hopefully, we will also be able to get extra money to do this, and this will provide additional relief for municipalities with large territory, long distances and few people. It would be easier for them to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U108	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U109	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Why has the government decided to continue two Estonian models - Tallinn versus other Estonia? Why have you not thought of a balanced Estonia, which would also mean restructuring Tallinn? The second question refers to Paragraph 27 (15). Does this mean that accession support cannot be allocated to new investments under the Accession Treaty, but is intended to cover ongoing investments? Is that reasonable and shouldn't it be more of a motivation for new development in the new municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U110	I'll start at the back. No, it is certainly not intended to grant merger support for the continuation of any old investments. Everything works exactly the way it's agreed. What is considered an important objective must be done. Freedom of choice is definitely in the hands of the municipalities themselves. As far as Tallinn is concerned, this reform is aimed at more capable municipalities and better services for people. This is not Tallinn's problem. Tallinn does not have a monetary problem; Tallinn does not have a capacity and service quality problem to the extent that there are very small municipalities. The problem with Tallinn is something else, and in this regard, we are probably thinking alike. We understand the Tallinn problem. This is a problem of political culture, of administrative culture. It is often not possible to change this by law. In our action programme, the task is to think about how to modernise the management of the capital and whether it requires the development of a separate law on the capital region. It's in our work programme. But the subject of the administrative reform is indeed not the city of Tallinn, this reform does not concern the city of Tallinn significantly. I also don't know anyone who wants to join the city of Tallinn, even though Tallinn is wealthy. So in this sense there are slightly different objectives and themes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U111	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U112	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! When preparing this administrative reform, you have certainly worked all 15 counties alone, and you will probably have an overview of Läänemaa and Järvamaa, where several mergers have taken place. Your performance has been too abstract and the preparation of the entire reform is too formalist. I'd like to get into more substance. Give examples of services in Läänemaa that improved after this great merger? I'm sure you know the high school was shut down. I don't see the tax base getting any better, I don't see any more jobs coming. I do not see that the economy has become more active. After all, the goal is to provide a more prosperous environment, not just to reduce the number of parish elders. Give examples of mergers that show that the package of services has become more diverse and of high quality, that availability is better!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U113	I actually talked about it in my speech. I have given examples of the emergence of new social services, such as transport services. The availability of recreational activities has significantly improved. Often the right approach to the development of services is that what was good in one area must be extended to everyone, and that is exactly how it is done when you join wisely and conclude contracts. Once a service was developed in one municipality, it is quite easy to escalate to everyone else. There are many examples: there are many examples. In West Nigula, where accession is considered to be positive, new services were created and investments were made, which a small municipality alone could not do. We have formed united municipalities every couple of years, and they all have experiences to share. These materials can be found online on our administrative reform page, where there are not only guidance material but also positive examples. So it's worth considering a merger. And just when an undertaking at the accession negotiations table is being planned, it is important to look at what a positive person has to propose. The salary has been harmonised to a higher level and, for example, in the West Island area, three accountants were no longer needed; one can do well. Two social security officers and one child protection officer were recruited. In the past, it was not possible to recruit a child protection specialist was not able to do enough work, there was no payroll fund, etc., but this competence developed in a connected area. Now there are residents in need of service, officials can specialize, they can be offered a higher salary. We can see that in larger municipalities, the level of pay is higher and the level of competence is higher. We have a large number of proceedings before the Chancellor of Justice because people's fundamental rights are not covered in small municipalities. There's just not enough professional authority to take away. People are good, but the local scale is not enough. I've been looking at small government officials. In an area with 700 inhabitants, 6 to 7 people are employed, half have higher education, but no one has economic higher education or legal higher education, for example. The work is carried out under limited resources, a very large part of the rural municipality's budget goes to management costs, but there is also a border ahead. We do not have such free money in the state budget anywhere that we can make a government budget with 500, 700 or 1000 inhabitants so large and so rapidly growing that it is as capable as a municipality with 10,000 inhabitants. I'm afraid that's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U114	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My colleague, Mr Hard, touched on the problem of peripheralisation. I'll give you an example. The Ida-Virumaa Action Plan, which we have just talked about in Question Time, shows that all investments and other money figures, which are behind the name of Narva or Kohtla-Järve, are saying that the government does not plan to make large investments in smaller places. In this context, I have the question of what changes the government plans to make in terms of administrative reform at regional and regional level of public administration. What tasks will be left to the county governor, and what will be handed over to the county self-government associations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U116	As far as Ida-Viru County is concerned, this is not the subject of this law, but in fact Ida-Viru County is in a good position in terms of investments. This county has received more investment support specifically than other counties. But that's it. The future of rural governments is exactly the same subject of debate. We see that changes are needed, and this is part of the reform of government, which we are currently analysing proposals. Let's publicize them and bring them to the government at the end of May. What's the direction I think we should go? What solutions are we looking for? All functions that can be performed by local governments or local government associations should be transferred to them. This is also the case with rural governments. We are now looking at what we can do right now, what we may be able to do in a few years' time in order to transfer responsibilities from rural governments to municipalities or local governments. This is one clear direction, and this work we are doing together with the other ministries. We are currently going through the subject by ministries, by administration, and we are essentially calling for ideas and proposals on how to give local authorities a greater role. It's the same with the county governments. The rural governments themselves will certainly not be lost in the next few years. In carrying out administrative reform, rural governments also have a clear role to play, especially when local governments refuse to perform any procedures through the latter, they are electoral procedures or something else related to accession. Then the ball comes into the hands of the state at one point, and with the help of the county governments, these procedures will be carried out. So, certainly, at least until the end of next year, until this reform is implemented, rural elders and rural governments will have a very important role to play. But exactly how to go about whether the county governments are being reorganised, whether we give them more power, whether we're doing regional units, this analysis I hope I can introduce to you at the end of May.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U117	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U118	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! In the draft that you have tabled, it is reasonable in itself and I would say that even the noble idea of paying compensation to municipal elders and councillors who have been in office and are losing their jobs. In order to obtain this compensation, the bill does not require you to have been in office for a long time. You're on six months before you join, you get six months' pay, you're on a year, you get 12 months' pay. In fact, I believe that this noble scheme in itself could be used in a somewhat distorted way. You have also noticed that there are successive and successive changes of power taking place in local governments all over Estonia. Do you not suspect that one motive may be a simple desire to receive the same compensation or compensation? Maybe this beautiful idea has turned on itself somehow. Can't we just make it a long way to get that compensation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U119	This is the point of discussion. The current law speaks of six months. Let's get it up to here. Indeed, it is a matter of seniority. Personally, I do not believe that the coup that we have had in the municipalities is primarily linked to this compensation. Rather, there are other causes and motives. However, it is generally recommended to pay this severance allowance to the local government leaders who lose their job. There have been more generous models. In Finland, income was guaranteed for four to five years; we have agreed a year. The fact is that a very large number of local government leaders in Estonia have a very long period of experience, this work has been done and indeed. Since we no longer need so many mayors and mayors thanks to the reform, it has been considered appropriate, both in the interests of the smoothness of the process and in the light of other arguments, to increase the aid for mergers. It is likely that the salary benefit will represent 3 to 4% of the accession allowances. We are not talking about very large sums of money; the salaries of local government leaders in Estonia are not very high. So that is the proposal, and I hope that there will be no abuse. By the way, there is a requirement for calculating the average salary for the last two years, so there is no point in raising the salary at the last minute in order to receive higher compensation. Let us hope that this is a suitable compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U120	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Paragraph 1 (1) of the draft law sets out the scope, the grounds for amending the administrative-territorial arrangements, the deadlines, etc. Paragraph 1 (2) formulates the objective: high quality public services and uniform development, which is very important. If the scope is very well understood which sections of the draft will lead us to the objective, then in paragraph 2, which is a so-called "quality clause," I do not understand which sections in the draft will help us to achieve this objective. Could you please point out which sections are aimed at providing high-quality public services and avoiding peripheralisation? The scale effect could not be mentioned, because size does not always guarantee quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U122	I'm not going to read specific paragraphs right now, I don't have a bill in front of me either. But the logic of this bill and the analysis involved has been that a larger municipality ensures greater capacity and creates prerequisites for better quality services. It has been possible to investigate, analyze, compare. Of course, there are all kinds of exceptions. There are, for example, 2000 rural municipalities that do quite well, and there are larger municipalities that do worse. Administrative culture and policy choices also play a role. But when we make the law, we must have achieved a certain degree of generalisation, we must look at the bigger picture. And that's where this minimum number of inhabitants criterion comes from. It may not be and certainly is not the ideal solution to all the problems. However, experts have not found a better option to use when analysing Estonia's model and the experiences of neighbouring countries. So the effects of economies of scale on the organisation of services, the organisation of the administration, the provision of financial capacity must inevitably come from the number of inhabitants, are directly and closely linked to it. The financing model of our municipalities is linked to the number of inhabitants; income tax receipts are linked to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U123	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U124	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You're now banging the ball into one gate: 5,000 souls or 11,000. But doesn't the way in which your actions conform to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia concern you? The Chancellor of Justice has made it very clear that there are a number of questions. One question arises because the implementing law, which establishes the responsibilities of local governments and also the money, comes later after the law has been passed. But the constitutionality of this law will be revealed only after what we have not yet seen comes. I am not talking about deadlines and local autonomy. Doesn't all this concern you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U125	The people of the Chancellor of Justice's office have been involved in the drafting of this bill, and I am quite convinced that your interpretation of the Chancellor of Justice's words is slightly different than he has thought. We have the functions, functions and financing model of local governments in the current law and it is completely constitutional. The analysis of the constitutionality of the draft is also available in the explanatory memorandum, on quite a number of pages. We have analysed whether the amendments are constitutional and whether they respect the principles of the European Charter for Local Government. We have come to believe that yes, there is certainly a violation of fundamental rights here, but the aim is legitimate and there are clear reasons for everything. When we read the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, we see that it says nothing about the borders of local governments. All he says is that when local authorities are united, their opinion must be heard. We will certainly follow the obligation to listen. We are convinced that this law is constitutional. If there are later major changes in the functions, tasks and funding of local governments, then of course this will be preceded by constitutional control. This has to be done separately. But right now, I don't see a serious problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U126	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! I very much hope that the concept and tasks of the public will be more extensive, more democratic and developed in accordance with the 21st century in the course of the procedure of the draft law. My question, however, is about the municipalities that have already joined. How well are they designed to form a domain and make them work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U128	It is also possible to create divisions in other municipalities. I'd be happy to hear the suggestions you have on the dormitories. The attitude is extremely positive. It is simply the debate that has revealed this risk and this risk must be acknowledged that if we write into the law a very detailed regulation of the public administration, together with various rights and obligations and restrictions, it will, first of all, be a relatively serious violation of the autonomy of the internal management of the local government. Secondly, we can achieve the opposite effect in certain regions: the local government leaders see that the regulation of the municipality is too detailed and does not fit our circumstances at all. Depends on what we write it down after either Vändra town or Tallinn city. Maybe not for everyone. If we lay down in law a very rigid framework, which is a division, which are the rights and obligations of the public administration, then the effect may be contrary to what is desired. The municipality itself cannot adjust it, and then maybe the municipalities will not be created, which would be a bad result. So the objective is noble, but it must be wise: if we want to promote local democracy, we must make sure that we do not achieve the opposite result.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U129	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U130	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have two questions, and both come from real life, from meetings with voters and other single people. Here's the first question. Some parishes sit and hope that if they don't join voluntarily, then maybe there won't be a coercion. Wait for January 1st and look around and see what happens. I'd like your comment on that. Maybe you'll kill their hopes. But that's it. The second question is worse. In fact, the municipalities suspect that if they now agree with another municipality in the course of their accession, such as that the family doctor's centre will remain on the territory of both rural municipalities, because there is a patient base and other assumptions, but a new council will be elected later and who will guarantee that this contract will be fulfilled. Can the state guarantee this? Can anyone guarantee this by threatening to impose sanctions if a new municipal government or council comes and changes their mind and no longer cares about the old agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U131	I, too, am convinced that the municipality must be able to represent local interests. It is believed that this reform will help to ensure that local interests and local democracy are not apparent. If the small rural municipality does not have the financial and professional capacity to balance the state on an official level, then the local principle of democracy and autonomy exists on paper, not in reality. Municipalities with at least 5000 or 11000 inhabitants are certainly more capable in this respect. At the same time, I would like to think more about the municipality than about the balancer, not as opposed to the state, but perhaps for historical reasons, we are left with this attitude, rather than a partner of the state, entrepreneurs and NGOs. If necessary, however, he must be able to enforce his word. We cannot say that the merged municipality of Märjamaa on its 871 square kilometers would be undemocratic in any way or that it has been joined by Rapla, Lääne-Nigula or the ununited city of Pärnu or Tartu. Neither is this local democracy interpreted in such a way that the less, the more it is. We have also analysed the local elections and have seen that in fact, a certain scale is needed for healthy competition. Very small municipalities tend to experience the same problems as one of the largest: power is monopolised by one person, family or political group, and there is no very great competition or blood exchange in elections. However, local democracy needs a wider scope. I believe that a strong government better represents the interests of its people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U132	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, At present, four exceptions are allowed in accordance with the draft law when the municipality does not have to meet the minimum size criterion. Did the discussion have any other options on the table, more exceptions, or have four exceptions been retained from the outset?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U134	Here we are again looking for a balance. The draft also represented opinions that there should be no exceptions and that the border should be much higher, up to the point that county-sized municipalities should be made, which would then mean Hiiumaa with 9000 inhabitants and Harjumaa with 600,000 inhabitants. There were also proposals that we should leave the opt-out open well at all. Finally, however, we found it wiser to write down specific grounds for exceptions in the law. It is easier for municipalities to know the rules of the game, as well as for the government later, if they do not have to explain each case separately. In Latvia, as far as I know, there were very many individual questions on the table at the final stage, with very many requests for exceptions. Rather be clear rules, clear exceptions. You asked if there were any other suggestions. There was also one requirement on the table that you could allow a hinge. It was asked that if there is a very clear centre and there is a ring-svald around it, and both of them meet the criteria, should the government still intervene and join the hinterland of this centre. We did not put such an additional criterion in place, although we hope that such a clear centre and municipalities will join with the background. With a hundred yards apart, the municipalities in the centers seem a little weird. There's a rumor that we're going to be ruled by strangers now, but basically we're working in the same building. In short, there is a compromise at the moment. In the case of small islands or very large territories with swamps and forests and few people, very irrational steps should be taken to meet this criterion of 5000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U135	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Initially, there were plans that, until local authorities were elected, voluntary mergers would take place and then be forced to merge. What were the circumstances that led to the change of gear: speeding up the pace, and now they want to clear up everything to select local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U137	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr. Minister! To be honest, I am completely amazed at how much hostility and contempt you showed against the citizens when it came to Saue's referendum. There's a scare, isn't there? No 75% of the participants in the referendum cannot be so stupid that they do not see through the arguments of one party and the other. In this case, I do not understand why we are holding any elections at all if the opinion of the people is not to be taken into account. There was also a statement that we do not want to rule over strangers. In my opinion, this is a key issue for the whole reform that municipalities are being made, which are not really their own governments, because the administrative units are so large that it no longer exists in its own community. If we have a municipality that takes half a county or a third of the county, then indeed, there are all strangers to each other, and that is not our community. In my opinion, this is contrary to both our constitution and the current perception of what a municipality is. Don't you see the contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U138	No, I don't see it. After all, it has been said in other people's mouth that people have actually made changes with their feet and in other ways long ago. This self-government arrangement, which we had in 1989, has long been unreceptive to reality. It does not match where people work, where they work, where they train their children, how they move. The world has changed a lot. We have had mergers before, and we cannot say that the merged municipalities do not behave as they do after accession. We cannot say that the city of Haapsalu is not democratically run or the city of Pärnu or the city of Tartu. However, these are very large administrative units. Would the municipality of Märjamaa with a very large territory no longer be a municipality after accession to fulfil the obligations imposed on the municipality? So we rather need to bring legislation more into line with reality and see a bigger picture. However, it is not possible to bring local governments with 300 or 500 inhabitants to the level that we would expect in 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U139	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U140	Good manager! Good minister! I'd like to talk a little bit about those who win or who lose. As we know, there are fewer than 5,000 souls in 80 of 213 municipalities. So who's gonna win? Win, as I understand it, about a hundred mayors or parish elders who get an annual salary in a golden parachute named like this. But how many of these fine officials in the present municipalities and cities who are losing their jobs? Do they have any small, even a bronze parachute? Will there be any support for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U141	We are convinced that this is an opportunity. The Regional Commission will then have to make its proposal by considering the different levels of development, economic and cultural. It needs to be rewritten in the accession proposal. On this basis, it is proposed who and how this accession should take place. We are convinced that this possibility exists in the law; it is indispensable to meet the objectives of the law. But if the questioner has any better alternative to offer, we will, of course, be happy to listen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U142	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U143	The first part of the question was whether the accession phase initiated by the Government of the Republic would come. Yes, it will if the law is adopted as such. It's in your hands, Valdo. The draft contains precise procedures for the government to act after 1 January. As far as the accession agreement is concerned, I very much hope that it will be taken very seriously, because from there this synergy and wisdom will have to continue to guide the municipality and make choices. We have now written a request in the draft that accession treaties can be amended with the agreement of two thirds of the council members. This is a very high requirement, a rather consensual decision must be made. Whether this rate should be higher than three quarters or whatever, it is a debate issue. At first, we have written in two thirds and left this opportunity, however. Four years is a long time, circumstances can change, sometimes there may be much more wisdom. There should be some way to change the Treaty of Accession. There should be some way to improve it. But it can't be easy. A simple majority is not enough; it is not a decision that can be made in passing. There must be broad support for this. Let's hope it takes those risks down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U144	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am pleased that the verbatim report will be written in your sentence that raising the tax percentage will help the richest. The continuation of this sentence could be that reducing the percentage of personal income tax will also help the richest. However, the Reform Party has so far said that reducing the tax rate will help the poorest. That's an interesting turn. But here's what I'm asking you. Both voluntary mergers initiated by local governments and forced mergers initiated by the Government of the Republic should be conducted for local elections in 2017. How real do you consider it to be to carry out the reform on the basis of such a timetable, also considering that the content of the reform is determined by the draft laws, including the same bill governing the income tax component, has not yet been developed by the government or made it to the Riigikogu? You sell the local governments a pig in a bag.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U146	As has been said, 90% of municipalities negotiate. Whether to join or not, and if to join, who will be considered. It seems to me that they know pretty well who they should be with and how to join them. So there's no pig in the bag. With regard to the much talked about funding and tasks, these changes can be put into effect in 2018 at the earliest. We cannot make major accession negotiations and other substantive changes at the same time; this is not simply obvious and the local government leaders will not come with us in this case. So, in any case, if we come up with concrete solutions, where the necessary consensus has also been reached in local governments and there is money to enable local governments to carry out their tasks, these provisions will enter into force at the earliest in 2018. So many tasks. As regards the tax rate and the equalisation fund, the taxation and income of private individuals and local authorities are not comparable. This does not concern today's draft, but I have also repeatedly said from this board that if we have a choice with limited resources, whether in the near future we will direct further money to the fine-tuning fund or raise the share of income tax to the municipalities, then it is better to direct the funds to the equalisation fund in the first place when thinking about regional policy and peripheralisation. In this way, poorer municipalities will receive more help than in the case of an increase in the rate of income tax. More than half of the money received from the increase in income tax will go to the city of Tallinn and the municipalities of Harjumaa. Half of the money goes where it goes quite well in economic terms: the population is growing, revenue is increasing, average wages are higher than elsewhere, etc. If, in a context of limited resources, choices are to be made, it is preferable to give preference to solutions which have a stronger regional policy effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U147	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U148	As far as Tallinn is concerned, I will say once again that we have an agenda for analysing and proposing how to upgrade the management of the capital region. However, this is not a matter to be resolved in the context of administrative reform. I myself have received a mandate from Tallinn and I am very concerned about what is happening in Tallinn. I absolutely don't like it. I don't like this style of leadership, I don't like this political culture, these choices. And it bothers me very much that according to the latest analyses, given all the objective possibilities, Tallinn is no longer even an Estonian economic locomotive. Well, that's a completely criminal story. But let's discuss Tallinn! Let's sit down and think about how to defend democracy in the capital city and how to change governance in the whole region! In my opinion, there are no problems with the organisation of services. These things can be discussed and, to a certain extent, they are done. But what else and how the law could change the administrative culture is indeed a question of further debate. We will be happy to cooperate on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U149	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In a couple of answers, you briefly touched on the ongoing process of accession negotiations. Could you sum it up: how many municipalities are there who are negotiating and how much potential is there to be ready for the deadline? And what is the main reason for those who have not wanted to enter into negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U151	I will then repeat quickly: as of last night, 188 of 213 municipalities are involved in the accession negotiations. They have either proposed or have been proposed. There are municipalities that have answered no, there are municipalities that expect the law to be passed. So there's still room to play. I myself believe that it is best in time for this law to be adopted with your help and with your support for Midsummer Day. The middle of the summer is also the time for municipalities to make a meaningful choice, with whom and in which direction they will join. Then there will be six months left to put together the draft terms of merger calmly, to agree on details, to make investment choices. And by 1 January, the picture will be clear. Formally, but, yes, I think we'll see the result already in November. This is a time for accession negotiations. Both the opening and conclusion of negotiations must be the subject of formal decisions by the councils. But the picture is hopeful.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U152	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U153	Good manager! Good minister! You mentioned that the small ones are worse and the larger ones are the better municipalities. But at the same time, you improved that there are little ones who can handle it, and there are big ones who can't do well. I regret that a few issues were raised in the government committee, but these concerns have still not been resolved in this draft. One concern is what Kalev Eagle asked about: in every county there is a black sheep, or municipality, with a budget deficit and a loan burden torn apart, and no one wants to join him. Another concern is that some municipalities do not intend to respond to any of the merger offers. When local governments join around, some can't join because there's somebody who doesn't agree to join. Also, there are municipalities with 5,000 and 11000 inhabitants. How can the state subsequently order a small government to join someone without giving more money? After all, the criterion has been met with 5000 inhabitants available. Then how can you be forced to unite?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U154	Yeah, well, it's not gonna be an easy situation next year. If there are municipalities that do not want to join or who do not want to join, and at the same time do not meet the criteria, then they still need to find a partner and unite them in order to comply with the law. The next year, when the government is proposing to join the regulation in February for the municipalities that have to join, there is still three months to negotiate and conclude an accession agreement. If this fails, then we must act by law, in which case the state and the county government will make these decisions. But in general, yes, next spring it will work. As has been said, I do not believe that it is fundamentally right to start paying for someone's mistakes that have been made in the past, in exceptional circumstances, before accessions. We have very large merger grants that can be used to correct these mistakes, to alleviate the situation. The Accession Treaty must make choices as to where to invest, which items will be put into order. When concluding contracts, it can also be taken into account that one party has already fixed its own large object. I guess it's a tailor's job that doesn't have good solutions. At the same time, I do not think it is a good solution if these few unhappy municipalities remain on the map as impotent white spots. So we have to do the job, even though there's nothing nice about it. But I certainly didn't say the little ones are bad and the big ones are good. It's just a question of ability and efficiency, of what a large municipality can and can't do. The big ones have their own problems, but the small ones are more serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, I strongly support the same quality and accessibility of public services. Great, if we can get to that! We are now assuming that the effects of scale will guarantee us good quality of public services and will stop peripheralisation. But we need to know very precisely what this public service package is, what it is for a person to be responsible for, what it is for a municipality to be responsible for and what it is for a state to be responsible for. We also need to know what makes one service high quality, on the basis of which we say that this service is of high quality or not, and who appreciates it. This is a great moment, even a unique moment, to make an inventory of so-called public services. That's where my question goes. Is the inventory of public services, the mapping of who is responsible for what, done and, if so, when can we get acquainted with it? If it's not done, is that the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U156	The members of the Riigikogu are guaranteed a certain income six months after the end of the mandate. So this compensation for mayors and parish elders isn't something extremely extraordinary. Why is it in the law? Because they do not enjoy those benefits that extend to officials. When officials are laid off, if I am not mistaken, the Civil Service Act provides for certain guarantees. They must be offered a similar job. If it is not possible to offer it in the new municipality, they must be paid a certain amount of compensation. That's the whole logic. If the municipality sees that it has to reduce its membership, put someone together, the law provides certain guarantees for these officials. The municipality is always entitled to pay them any compensation if the council supports it. But we do not want the local government leaders to decide on any of the benefits that affect them. It's not like good practice, it's even criminal. But if you look hard, you might find such curves that some subsidies have been paid to former local government leaders for their negotiations. Our principle is that we pay out this compensation, but let it all be clear so that everyone can understand who can and on what grounds. Then you don't have to look for curves. If someone feels that he or she does not deserve this money, then there are definitely kindergartens and non-profit organizations in every municipality to donate money to. But the system must be clear and clear: officials receive compensation according to one law, the parish leaders under another law. There are clear lines ahead, so there's no slipping.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U157	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Austet waitress! In my day, I really enjoyed Prime Minister Ansip answering questions about administrative reform in the remote control and reprimanding the questioner that the local government, if you don't think about services, is much more than a service provider. The municipality is a place of self-decision; the municipality is the foundation of local democracy. Indeed, democracy has two golden rules: power must not be centralised and decision-making must take place at the lowest possible level. How does this draft comply with these principles? Is there no danger that we will sacrifice democracy to the quality of service?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U159	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have noted that civil society organisations or the third sector have taken a positive approach to improving the provision of services during the presentation of the draft. As we know, however, the way in which services are available to citizens is of great concern to many in general. Why don't you explain for a while what their positive attitude has been about? Have you also had substantive negotiations on how the third sector could help to ensure better access to services?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U161	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You are talking about the first stage as a voluntary merger. I ask: where is this voluntary merger if you must necessarily meet 5,000 people? Where's the volunteer? And since this is not a voluntary accession in fact, it has been a forced merger from the beginning, why did the government not immediately take the initiative and did not carry out this reform? There would have been no new municipalities based on friends and political parties. Why did the government not dare to intervene and implement the reform itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U162	I can give you a few concrete examples. In the event of a merger of wetland, it was very clear that the village movement had a positive impetus. On the one hand, they felt that they needed to be more active in larger municipalities themselves, but on the other hand, the municipality became able to support them more systematically. It has also been seen elsewhere that, after accession, when there are more resources and opportunities, certain systematic support for village movements and NGOs has emerged. And it's been positive. In the smaller area, there are fewer resources, often depending much on some personal experience, etc. In the larger area, there is usually a systemic approach to supporting the civil society and other grassroots organisations. This has been a positive effect. However, this is once again something that should be negotiated at the time of the accession agreement, how the third sector needs support and how they are involved. I very much support the inclusive budget process. And the NGOs, the village movement, can play a part in this process. In the future, for example, the public administration will be able to make its specific proposals on the budget up to the point that they will be allocated some amount from the budget that they will be able to decide on their own use. It's all possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U163	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U164	Thank you. Before accession, the opinion of the current municipality or of the residents of a part of the territory shall be determined. How much does the Regional Commission take into account in its assessments and in the decision-making of the Government of the Republic the results of such surveys?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U165	I'm sure he'll count as much as he can. This is also the case when there is a question of choice, for example, which direction a unit wants to join in, if there are several options, or which name to use or other options to use on the table. Some municipalities have quite a few options on the table. It is a pleasure to see that some rural municipalities in the outlying regions are particularly priced; they are invited to join in on several sides. As I said, county borders are not an obstacle here. Regional committees are designed to bring together knowledge, experience, expertise, local conditions. Landlords, merger experts, officials are represented in the regional committees. From below comes this wisdom, not in the cabinet drawing any boundaries and choosing names. These proposals still come from below. I'd like to start the regional committees right now. The law will hopefully give me a chance in a few months, but I can actually start them up right now. I hope that the work of the regional committees will be taken seriously and we will get the most sensible solutions during this year's own-initiative round of accession. I can, with my hands on my heart, assure you that, of course, it would be best if the municipalities still agree to join this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U166	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister, I'm still asking you to open your eyes! Tallinn is not just a matter of political culture. It is still a fact that the local government's income base and functions provided for by the law serve the interests of the large municipalities. The Reform Party very much wants to be one of the Nordic countries, but look at the administrative arrangements of the Nordic capital regions! They are still mainly co-operative bodies. In Estonia, too, it would be reasonable for local governments around Tallinn to act in the form of a cooperation body. In the near future, does the government intend to come up with a draft law on the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in order to balance a little more revenue base and prescribed functions in Estonia? On the other hand, § 29 (2) provides that we may even have a municipality with a council of up to 150 members. Where does this limit come from for the size of the council?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Austet waitress! The desire to join voluntarily can only be sincere if it is known that the situation will either improve or at least not get worse. Please explain how you should behave in such an otherwise logical area of union where there is a black sheep that others do not want to join, because they should then pay back the debts of this self-borrowing municipality! Is it an option for the state to reorganize and make such a local government "enabled"?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U168	The honest answer is no. The state will not directly sanction anyone or pay off anyone's debts. However, in such a case, it is possible to use the merger grant to pay old debts. It's a principle. And the model of merger grants is also that the possibility that everyone will not immediately succeed in meeting the criterion is actually taken into account, but that the merger grant will still be paid for each merger. Yes, the amount is twice when the criterion is met, the bonus is if the new municipality is 11000 inhabitants or the size of the county. But in fact, everyone gets support and that money can be used to pay old debts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U169	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U170	Thank you, good Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu! Honourable waitress! I ask the question of life itself, the local government of my own home. I come from Albu municipality, where there are 1,200 inhabitants. During this reform, the municipality of Albu should join at least three municipalities in order to meet the minimum requirement of 5000 inhabitants. If he joined two parishes, there would be 4,500 inhabitants. However, the point is that last year the municipality of Albu was the sixth in the ranking of municipalities with less than 2 000 inhabitants in its capacity for Estonia as a whole. What will a resident of Albu municipality gain if we go through the forced accession process? The centre of the new municipality would be much further away. The availability of public services is currently very good and nobody complains about anything. What will Albu's parishioner win?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U171	Now I have to admit, I'm a little confused. The Centre Party confirms that it does not support the government's unification round. Now I hear you say that we should have joined the municipalities immediately, without any prior warning. I'm confused, which way to do it? We have chosen such a process as to establish the rules. The criteria and timetable have already been announced to the municipalities in November last year, and now we are also seeing overactive negotiations. We give them the opportunity to conclude agreements themselves within a certain framework within a perfectly reasonable period of time. I am convinced that the local government leaders have taken note of this information in general, and they are negotiating within far greater limits than this 5000 alone. More than 20 negotiating groups have targeted municipalities with more than 11000 inhabitants. I think it is very important that we give the municipalities time to agree on these frameworks themselves. They will know who they have cultural and economic ties with and who to join. It's not like we're starting a clean slate. We have been discussing these proposals for 20 years, so we will give them this opportunity. But later, indeed, the government must act. If someone has given up the accession prize, has given up speaking, has given up the opportunity to sign up for themselves in the Accession Treaty, how this government will be managed in the future, if someone has really given up all their rights, then the government will finally have to do it itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U172	Thank you. It's hard to say anything about a particular parish. But there's definitely something you can do better with your neighbors. There is certainly something that is done better in neighbouring municipalities than in the Albu municipality. The financial capacity of the merged municipality should be increased by analysis, which clearly shows that the financial capacity of the municipality is increasing, together with the increase in the number of inhabitants. Perhaps this community, with a thousand inhabitants, is doing well in its daily activities, but at some point there is a need for some greater investment. It is very difficult for a rural municipality with a population of 1000 to make an investment of, for example, EUR 1 million. Such situations may arise sooner or later, where much money is needed. Such an investment will always be inaccessible to the small community. And think about the time when the support of the Estonian state from the European Union will be reduced. You probably don't like the European Union, but we'll get some help from it in the wild. What will happen from the 2020-2021 years onwards? The European Union's subsidies to our country and local authorities will certainly continue, but it is very likely that the level of self-financing will be much higher than today. Then the question arises as to whether municipalities are even able to include foreign funds, finance, money and intellectual capacity to implement these projects. Unfortunately, we already have examples in Estonia that small municipalities have received grants, but they simply cannot carry out projects. It is sad to look at the lack of competent project managers, managers or the inability to put more of this 10 to 15% self-financing. In time, this problem should deepen. So financial capacity is inevitably higher in the larger municipality and management costs are lower at the same time. It is worth thinking five to ten years in advance to understand what challenges await us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U173	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U174	Thank you. Good performer! First of all, I will comment on this population, which has been taken as a basis. I am certainly not the first critic of this. If we look at the press, such as the major newspapers, the editorials have repeatedly asked why it is not the historical and cultural suitability that has been used, but the number of inhabitants. And, of course, Finland and Latvia are not concerned at the moment. But I'm asking you something else. What I'm asking is, if, for example, there are a couple of major estates in the county, what functions would the county government have to perform at all? And tell me if there are any reasons why, if any, the government may refuse to confirm its accession to the Regulation if it does not like any accession. Is there such an opportunity? And if so, what reasons could these be, even though the population is sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U175	I say that population is a criterion, not an end in itself. The goal is that we have capable municipalities. And it has been analysed what level of capacity is created to provide which services how many people have to live in the municipality. On this basis, this criterion is derived. As regards the situation where, for example, two large municipalities have emerged in the county, of course, a question may arise as to the role of the county government. And indeed, such situations may arise. The role of the county government must certainly be public supervision, the performance of the functions of the state. It has a much smaller role to play as co-ordinator of cooperation, but certain monitoring of compliance and planning remains. Even if there is one municipality in the whole county, this role will remain because there will be no supervision of yourself. It is true that if there are a large number of county-sized municipalities, then it is likely that there will be a choice that we will continue to do with the rural governments. But today, looking at the real picture, you might think that no county-sized municipalities are born funny. It is still a cardinal and long step forward compared to the current situation when there are 15, 16, 20 municipalities in the county. It is quite difficult to reach an agreement in such a large group. However, it is clear that if we see such results, this must be taken into account in the reorganisation of the rural government's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U176	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Mr Tarand pointed out that the hidden objective of the reform could be to push out electoral alliances and to redeploy the "gerrymandering" or electoral boundaries so that power parties could achieve better results. Paragraph 22 (2) of the draft provides for the payment of the last part of the accession grants in the first quarter of 2019 if the Riigikogu elections happen. Aren't you afraid there's gonna be a roof money syndrome that's already darkened our political culture? Perhaps it is worth putting this deadline forward so that it does not act as a pre-election gift?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U178	I don't share these fears, I'm telling you the truth. For me, electoral alliances are a perfectly normal part of democracy. I believe that in Tallinn, for example, cooperation with some electoral alliances would be easier than with the Centre Party. I'm guessing that the fear of eating out the electoral alliances is quite a bit of a story. I looked at the local election results. In Pärnu, the electoral alliance won with a long tree, two electoral alliances are represented in the council in Tartu. Even in Estonia's largest municipalities, we leave the electoral alliances to Tallinn's side. After all, the people themselves make their own choice at the ballot box, with no advantage either to the electoral alliances or to the parties. What are we afraid of? I think that electoral alliances can do great in larger municipalities from the territory as well. If they can handle 100000 inhabitants in Tartu, they can also manage 5,000 residents in the municipality of South-East Estonia. So I don't see any concern. As regards the division of merger grants over three years, there is a very practical budgetary reason for this. This money, which the country is likely to have to pay out for merger grants, actually reaches local people. It doesn't disappear into thin air. But that's a lot of money. The budget now has very strict frameworks. As far as we know, economic growth is not very high, tax receipts are coming in nicely, but we also have fixed costs. So it has been a fiscal decision to disperse these disbursements over three years. The first quarter will be paid out at the end of 2017 and the fastest cost of the merger can be covered. Half of the money will be paid out in 2018, when investments can already start, and the last quarter in 2019. There is no connection to the elections, there is no connection to the roof money. The desire is only to spread this cost of money over a longer period, so that it is also acceptable to the state budget. The share of the prizes will also come in 2019, as there will be higher amounts. So really, there's no conspiracy, there's no conspiracy. It is just that we must be able to keep this promise in a way that does not break the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U179	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U180	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U181	Many materials and several laws deal with this subject well. In fact, the local government leaders know what their main tasks are. The wealthier, stronger municipalities do certain things in addition; the small, unfortunately, the basic services are also not sufficiently guaranteed. This is certainly one of the problems that we want to solve in the framework of this reform. The State Budget Act also states each year what the functions of the municipality are, which are the tasks of the state. There are also tasks of the state which, together with the money, are transferred to the municipalities. These regulations are in place. I once learned that Tallinn offers more than 500 different services to its residents. This was definitely the largest number in Estonia, and it is probably tens of times larger than small municipalities can do, no matter how hard they try. So the service package still depends on the scale, whether we like it or not. The question of the size, capacity and provision of services of the municipality is whether we want the pendulum to show a high degree of communityism on the scale, or whether we want it to show a high level of economic economy. If we want everything to be economically sound, then even larger municipalities are likely to have to do so. This would certainly be even more effective financially. Today we shift the pendulum from community to a little economical, but it certainly doesn't hit the other extreme. I think that this balance point is almost there now, when looking at the conditions of Estonia, the number of inhabitants and territories of local governments. I believe that with the introduction of this 5000 and 11000 we are taking a sensible step now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U182	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! The Constitution provides for two types of local government units: the municipality and the city. Kilingi-Nõmme, for example, gained city rights in the still-growing Republic of Estonia, is now the centre of Saarde rural municipality and the population is well below 5000. According to § 14 (2) of the draft to be addressed, it does not maintain its species name 'city'. If I go to the parish elder there now, where do I go, to the village or to the city? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U184	You can still use the city in your mouth. You can't take that right away from anyone. There are towns in the parish. True, the House Names Board has recommended the use of the term 'nuclear city' in official registers, but it is such a technocratic-bürocratic term. The city can continue to be a city within the rural municipality, we now have and will remain in the future. We do see that if the municipality itself wants to maintain the status of the city, that the municipality is a city, then at least half of the population in that area should live in the city. This criterion is currently in place. Those who have previously joined and had to adopt the name of the municipality may also re-introduce the name of the city if they so desire. They've been given that chance. So there will be no cardinal change in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U185	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U186	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister, This is certainly the biggest reform of recent years. If you were 30 to 40 years older, you could say that life's work is in progress or life's work is in progress, but a draft reform of this size will certainly not be prepared by the minister alone, using sleepless nights. I'm giving you the opportunity to mark this remote control, to list the people and organisations behind this huge bill. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U187	As I said, we have also had the help of earlier plans and certainly of the work that Siim Kisler did in his time. Wisdom has always increased. I guess we weren't ripe for change in our time, and hopefully now we are. But there are smart people in the panel from different political parties and organisations, officials and otherwise active municipal specialists. I'm sure people at the Ministry of Finance have done a great job. Their names can also be found in this explanatory memorandum: Ave Viks, Olivia Taltud, Sulev Liivik. Some of the guys are sitting here in the courtroom tonight. Of course, it's been a big job. No one would have done it alone. The content of the bill may or may not be pleasant, but a lot of work has been put in it so that superficialness or indifference can certainly not be blamed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U188	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U189	Thank you to the President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. Certainly, any kind of reform is a source of fear in people. I sense that when I meet people around Estonia, they fear, first and foremost, that deciding on their lives goes even further, that no one really cares about their circumstances anymore. That's the kind of thing I'm gonna ask. Has there been a debate with these experts on the possibility of granting, in addition to the skills of such voluntary entities, some greater rights to communities with village elders? Can we give them more power to actually take responsibility and decide on their lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U190	The current Local Government Organisation Act also allows certain tasks to be transferred by contract, and this is very welcome if it is used. Various measures will help to mitigate remoteness. Current service points can be left in the old rural municipalities or moved to where there are more people than there is a need for this service. That's what's been done. At the same time, some specialists still work in the old municipalities to solve problems on the ground. They do not need to be officials of the municipality, they may be officials of this community government, they simply are located in different settlements. This can be organised very successfully with service points, entire institutions may be scattered across the municipality. You don't have to set tough rules and build any public walls. It's worth considering, and then we'll agree. Indeed, there are a great many things that depend on the choices of the local government leaders and other negotiators themselves. If you put the law of the people in front of very harsh restrictions, this tool will not be used at all and the effect will be the opposite. We still have to agree as much as we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U191	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U192	Indeed, in the process of preparing the reform, we decided to increase the pace so that it would not get any longer. The arguments why this is the right way came from here and there. In fact, the government's decision was rather consensual and the local government leaders have also said to do so. If we were to allow ourselves to join until local governments were elected and there would not be a government round, then there would be a very long period in which nothing would happen. But now we know by the end of this year who will join, who will meet the criteria. Otherwise, there would be a very long period of hard work, but there would be ambiguity for others. So neither the better nor the less able would know whether they have to join or not. In addition, with a longer timetable, the question would be when the next round of elections should be held. It would probably be absurd to wait four years, to hold extraordinary elections in 2018 because of these mergers, but it would be extremely costly and extremely annoying for both residents and municipalities. And if you think about it a little bit in advance, in 2018 Estonia will be the Presidency of the European Union, we have the anniversary of the Republic, we have had some elections and others are coming. This continuous cycle of elections, you know, generally does not have a positive impact on the governance of the country. There's been a lot of talk about this, it's not news. Municipalities have had enough time to negotiate on their own initiative since November last year, so almost a year and a half, and there is no point in having a period in which nothing happens and probably only some kind of political cockbox. We'd better be quick and proper. There's a way to make a deal. If there are some things that are not done, then the government will do the timeline is clear, the rules are clear, the budget is there. That's it!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U193	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U194	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! When you answered one of the previous questions, you said that it would be very useful for the health of democracy to see how long it took to sit down and the power in the hands of one family or faction would be aired. I think you have a fiery right to share this view, especially on a national scale. But here's the question. How does the government intend to implement the compulsory merger of municipalities or municipalities in a purely practical manner if certain municipalities have not joined voluntarily?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U195	I don't think you've all been listening to what I'm saying for two hours. I'm not starting from scratch, it would be disrespectful to others who have been involved in this debate. The law states the procedure: until the end of this year can be joined voluntarily, in February next year the government will draw up a regulation stating who will have to join the criteria and who will have to join them. Then it's three months to sign a merger agreement. By the summer of next year, all the procedures have been carried out by the municipality itself, but if it refuses, the ball will come back to the state, who will do these procedures through the county governments. On 15 October next year, the local elections will be held in the united municipalities. This is the process that is well described in short.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U196	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U197	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said optimisticly that 188 municipalities were involved in the merger. The real reason for this is simply the fear of coercion, not the desire to join. When we look at statistics, management costs are too high in quite small municipalities. It is no longer important in the municipalities with 2 000 to 3 000 inhabitants, and it is unjustified to draw the border to 5 000 people. Saue City meets all the criteria, and coercion would not endanger it. Three-quarters of the population were opposed to joining in the survey, but this was not taken into account. Do you think it is right that the will of the people and democracy do not matter on such an important issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U198	Thank you. It was discussed here earlier whether it was important to conduct the survey, why it was done. I think it needs to be practiced. However, I am convinced that the decision must remain for the council to decide. The Council will shape the final position taking into account all the different aspects, including the results of the poll. In general, so many people do not participate in public surveys; activity could be greater. At the same time, I call for ordinary citizens and politicians not to use lies during this campaign. Unfortunately, the city of Saue saw this: lies, fictitious dangers were used to intimidate people, and perhaps the result was a reflection of that. In fact, the head should be kept clear and be civilised even when it comes to a merger poll. In my opinion, the councils that made the merger decision must be recognised. It is not possible to accept that municipalities only want to join the wealthier. I think that was a little bit of a question for Saue City. They thought we were the wealthiest, we didn't need anything. There was also the claim that strangers would come to lead us. Imagine, people from the same neighborhood are suddenly strangers in our own little Estonian country! In thinking of the arguments and leaflets used to intimidate people in Saue City, I am actually glad that Saue City Council had the courage to adopt the merger decision. It is not possible for everyone to join only the wealthiest. The wealthier must look at the longer term and feel responsibility. If necessary, those who are currently getting worse should be included. I believe that after eight or ten years, or after four or eight years, the inhabitants of Saue City will see that the fears with which they were intimidated were invented and actually one of the most capable Estonian municipalities, with 21000 inhabitants, was born. The largest municipality can do its tasks nicely. And one more thing: the situation of those with whom they joined was not as bad as they were trying to show. So even under the conditions of representative democracy, polling is not always the source of the last truth. It gives a certain input, provides an opportunity to design certain options, especially when it comes to, for example, name selection or who to join. The wisdom of considering all of this must be in the leadership of the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U199	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U200	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I didn't get a good answer to my question before. Let me give you an example. In the middle of the county there is one municipality that does not want to join anyone, but all the municipalities are joining around, and none of them are less than 5,000 inhabitants. If the pending draft law is adopted in May and these municipalities have joined, but there is one municipality in the middle that would need several million to get to a level more than others, what then? On the basis of which law will your commission and government appoint this one municipality to join any third or fourth municipality if this municipality has fulfilled all the criteria laid down in this draft law? I think that's the law right now, but if this bill is passed as a law, it won't be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U201	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here again, the theme of the road roll was described as a road roll going forward. However, everyone who has seen the roadwork knows that the roller also goes backwards and does the job quite well. I have the question about a backwards roller, that some mayor doesn't listen to one or the other and just says that I'm not joining anyone, I'm not doing anything. Of course, that's how he slows down the process. I understand that the central government will not intervene during the period of voluntary accession. Am I getting this right? I also have the question that if the local government manager drives the road roll backwards, will he be compensated later after compulsory integration if he loses his position as a parish elder. Or could we take it away from him as a fine?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U202	No, I hope we don't get to that. The foundation of the merger is derived from the law. As has been said, when the law is passed and the President announces it, it is for everyone to comply, even if the law does not like it. This is our constitutional order. However, if in principle the municipality refuses to comply with the law, the following steps are foreseen. As has been said, the ball will come back into the hands of the state, and the governor and county government will carry out the necessary procedures. Perhaps so much so that if the government's initiated rounds need to be combined with a smaller one and the smaller one has not complied with the requirements of the law, then the name and symbolism of a larger and stronger municipality will probably be used. The size of the council comes from the law: it is possible to agree on a voluntary basis on a larger composition of the council; the minimum size is due to the law. The election procedures will then be carried out by the State and the municipality council and the new city or municipality government, which have already joined it, will complete the merger. So all regulations, regulations and rights are derived from the law. Once the law has been passed and declared, I hope everyone will follow these rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U203	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U204	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! It seems strange to me that you have declared false and panic-enhancing facts about Saue City, who meets all the criteria and who do not need to join. I am the former mayor of Saue, who also participated in this process. I'm very familiar with all the tests we've done. All of Saue's previous mayors were against joining me. I believe that we know these arguments much better and are much more competent on this issue. Do you really think that it will bear good fruit if accession to the road roll policy is carried out and the opinion and reality of the people are not cared for?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U205	What can I say? Each individual case may not have to be commented on at the moment. It is just that I see that often arguments have been used that are not true. I don't think it's pretty. If the arguments that are true are used, it is a welcome debate, but if people actually... Yeah, well, I'm not gonna say. But the council has a mandate, the law provides that councils make these decisions, and I think that's the right way. You have to listen, you have to make an opinion. I do not know all the arguments and details that were in the debate at the councils when the merger of Saue parish was on the agenda, but we see that all the councils approved this step in a democratic way. I liked to have the courage to take a longer step, not stuck to the fact that we are currently fulfilling the criterion, see that we have 5300 inhabitants, let's not do anything! I liked to see more ambitiously looked ahead, looked at a broader plan, looked at the fact that the city and rural municipality have already grown up to a large extent, the same schools, the same services. In this sense, I recognise this accession decision in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U206	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U207	Thank you. Of course you do. You've made a change of power to roll over the will of the people. In particular, the council did not have a mandate, 73% of the population opposed. Where does the council get its mandate? It's still from the crowd. What happened to our last question and answer was that I was talking about the garden and you were talking about the garden hole. I mean the self-esteem of the municipality. This is not about Haapsalu or the Pärnu community. The question is that if Haapsalu is joined, for example, by Lihula and everything that remains between it, the people of Lihula, the people of Taebla and the people of Haapsalu will not have their own self-government. But I'm gonna ask you another question. Before it was mentioned several times that in these lost municipalities you can continue with service points and you can decide to keep open all kinds of other facilities, schools, social houses, libraries and officials on the payroll. If that's the case, there can't be any savings. If you want savings, something must go down. Can't get two good ones at a time. Where will the savings come from if service points and all other institutions continue to work? What's the point of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U208	That is the question of an agreement on the ground. We are not trying to take money from local governments or reduce their budgets. The savings come from more efficient management, thanks to more efficient models. People do not have to sit at a service point unless they are in contact with the residents of the municipality. It is still meant to be used when it comes to providing services to people on the ground. But it has to be agreed on the spot. If it is necessary, it must be done. For how long and how, this must be agreed by the municipality itself. The merger experience has shown that, over time, there will be considerable savings in management costs and, at the same time, a specialization of the official body, an increase in capacity. It's an efficiency win in any case. At least so far it's been like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U209	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question concerns § 1 (2) of the Act, and more specifically its final part, where it is written in this way: 'The implementation of the governance reform will also be guided by the objectives of the reform of state administration in order to organise public administration, which is to ensure good quality and availability of public services and cost savings. ' My question is about cost savings. How will this be achieved? How much cost savings have been planned compared to the current situation? I couldn't find an explanation in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will ask the question again, which I also asked the Minister. His answer was general and incomprehensible. Why has the research potential of the University of Life Sciences not been used in the preparation of administrative reform? Does the current government regard these scientists as incompetent, or does it not trust them, or is there some third to fourth reason? It is still completely strange and incomprehensible that our research potential is not being used to prepare such important national tasks. You've been dealing with these questions for a long time, so I'm asking you for your personal opinion on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U212	You will find references to various studies in the explanatory memorandum, and you will also find them on the website of the Ministry of Finance and on the website of the administrative reform.ee. Briefly, once again, the main savings will come from a reduction in management costs. Small municipalities have very high preparedness and management costs, while people do not have enough application, competitive wages cannot be paid, they need to focus on a wide range of tasks. The construction advisor should also be a child protection specialist, and it is not possible to do so. This is the concern of very small governments, which, thanks to the merger, will be eased. If management costs and support costs decrease proportionally, the money released can be directed towards staff changes and investments, the provision of services. This has already been done by municipalities. Of course, you cannot pass through a certain transition period, the effect will certainly not be achieved in the first month, but from past experience it can be seen that management of the municipality is becoming stronger and with greater benefits for the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U213	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister Arto Aas! Look, democracy is never too much. We already have five rural collections held in Pärnumaa. These have taken place during the years 2008-2014. These are all county councillors and have been decided on a large number of matters concerning the county. Municipalities are one step away from regularising them as second level municipalities. The word "rural collection" has been used and rooted in Estonian for a hundred years and has important meanings. As the administrative reform develops, what do you think could lead the rural community to be a second-level government? This objective has been repeatedly included in the Social Democratic Party Programme and has also sounded like a triple election promise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U215	No, we're not gonna get that by this law yet. There's no agreement on that. There's no consensus. Two other parties to the coalition are convinced that Estonia does not need a two-tier self-government system in this harsh form. Our self-government system is already quite fragmented, quite fragmented. We don't need a rigid second level. However, cooperation between municipalities can be encouraged by other methods. In particular, it should be voluntary and based on practical grounds. This cooperation is already taking place. We simply want to create better opportunities, and with the amendments in this regard, we will certainly arrive in Parliament in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U216	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U217	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question. I don't know, maybe there's some prognosis here, but I'll ask. How many people will remain in Estonia instead of the current 213 local authorities after the adoption and reform of this law? That's one question. And the second is: how far are the steps two and three concerning the financing of local governments and the removal of state institutions from Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U218	I'll start at the back end. The local government leaders themselves have said that, for the first time since accession, they have had the opportunity to actually engage in business support. They have been able to recruit a person with the necessary special education and training and who has been given specific tasks. Secondly, there are municipalities that have started to pay business grants since accession. And thirdly, there are municipalities who have said that they have developed the capacity to establish industrial parks, for example, through cooperation with the state and using euro money. So much for business. There are certainly more opportunities in a larger, more capable municipality. Officers have been asked about several times today. However, it is not possible to calculate how many people lose their jobs or what happens to them. These decisions are in the hands of the municipality. But what do we see in the labour market? We can see that there are no good people out there. The composition of the local government staff is likely to change slightly. It has already been said here that we do not need so many secretaries and accountants from now on. At the same time, a development advisor, a cultural advisor, a child protection specialist will be recruited, people who actually deal with people in their area. So the number of employees may not change much even in the near future. Yes, there are somewhat fewer parish elders, but maybe in a larger area you need an assistant parent. If there are at least 11000 inhabitants, such a need may arise. The parish manager can deal with more strategic issues, and there is someone in the municipality government who deals with day-to-day editing. But specific decisions are made on the ground. Today, we see that good people certainly do not have to fear unemployment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U219	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U220	Minister Arto Aas! I see that Ain Lutsep and I are anchormen here. What if you have to want the wind in your wings and a very creative period for all of us, so that some fatal mistake doesn't end up in this 200-page bill, or more than 100 pages I think it was. A few microscopic faults, however, stand out. The devil is known to be in detail. How does it happen now that historic small towns, which have been cities for 800 years, may lose this right and the name of the city? Secondly, how has it happened that the border island is no longer a small island? We are talking only about the special rights of the islands of the sea. However, there is also water around Piirissaare, fish living there, fish caught and an island of great historical and cultural importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U221	Cities remain cities as settlement units, and remain with their history, borders and people. There's no way to see history wiped out. That would be impossible. As far as the small island is concerned, this was the proposal of the Committee of Experts that it is the maritime island municipalities that will receive special rights. At the same time, marine island municipalities must send the government their vision of how they are able to cope on their own. Their advantage is that small island municipalities have their own budget programme, their own additional source of financing, which makes this picture slightly different from many other islands. We actually have a lot of small islands that can do nicely with some of the larger municipalities. But yes, if we analyse the capacity, size and demographic situation of the Municipality of Piirissaare, we can see that there are no children there, for example. And the management of the municipality is already located in Tartu. To be honest, I do not know anyone who thinks that a municipality with 60 to 90 inhabitants can be maintained. The border island certainly needs the state's attention and support in the future, but it is more reasonable to organise daily living in the composition of some of the larger municipalities. Accession proposals have already been made. I'm sure they'll be fine. This was the unanimous position of the panel and the government that the exemption for the smaller islands would not be extended.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U222	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U223	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm going to specify my last question. I have a page of the explanatory memorandum showing the impact on public expenditure and revenue. Here is this section: 'Despite this, experts estimate that the reduction in government expenditure is not an important objective of the reform, since changes in other components of governance (increase in the role of strategic and professional components) are much more important. ' And further: 'More and more, as the more detailed analysis of the merger scenarios of municipalities of different sizes and income bases shows, because of the nature of the municipal financing system, the merger may result in a reduction in the financial resources per capita used to perform public tasks. ' How much money are you forecasting to fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Rapporteur for the Commission, I have this question. As we know, there are thousands of very beautiful place names in Estonia, which is part of the cultural identity of a particular place. Is there any concern that a place name might disappear from the map of Estonia or from the site name register, not as a rural municipality, but simply as a place name, in any way justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U225	I repeat, the aim is really not to reduce municipal revenues or budgets. The aim is that local government management is more efficient and effective, and savings in management costs have a scale effect. Yes, there may indeed be situations where the number of municipal employees remains the same, maybe even raise their salary, but what really matters is that the quality of management is increasing. Administrative reform is not a reform of any reduction or reduction of costs; it is rather a reform of the structure of expenditure and of the quality of management, which must help to make better use of existing resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U226	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U227	Thank you, honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I ask two very simple questions, to which I hope to have two very simple answers. Firstly, when we talk about management costs, we have real examples of local governments joining. The municipality of Lehtse has joined the municipality of Tapa, has been a large merger of the municipalities of Saaremaa and so on. Please state in which merged municipalities the management costs have decreased, to what extent in the percentage we are talking about! Please state the exact facts. The second issue concerns the financing of educational establishments. A bounty in educational establishments is also known to depend on the size of the municipality. I recently received a calculation from one of Järvamaa's parish elders that if eight municipalities join one major, the funding for basic schools will decrease by EUR 400000. Why don't you explain how this financing model will continue to work if the sums actually decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U228	The results of the studies concerning the management costs of municipalities are publicly available. You can also see the slides and blueprints that are attached. I can ask our people to send them to you separately if you do not want to search our website or explanatory memorandum. Trends and correlations are clearly visible. They run really well on the drawings. If, for example, the population grows from 5,000 to 11,000, the effect is obvious, not so much from there. With regard to educational costs and any possible changes in funding, the principle of the draft is that, if, for any reason, the financing of local governments, the financing of some services by the state, other than administrative reform, were to decrease more before it was received, then the State would compensate for it in eight years. So far, this period was four years, we've extended it to eight years. This is a very long time during which it is possible to adapt and during which important changes are taking place in our social order, including in the provision of services. So for eight years at least the state will compensate for any differences arising from the source or model of the money. This is one additional bonus compared to the current regulation and should take away the fears that the local governments' revenue base will change greatly. It is not our intention to reduce the amounts that go to the municipalities at any point. This concerns education, public transport, everything else for which the state allocates certain amounts to municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U229	Thank you, Minister, for your presentation and your answer to questions. No further questions. Now I would like to ask Siim Kisler, a member of the Riigikogu, to represent the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U230	A respectable manager! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft law on administrative reform on 21 March. a. The debate was not as long as it is now, so I am certainly not going to repeat what has already been mentioned today, but I will try to point out some of the issues that were not addressed in this Chamber or were dealt with in the Commission from a slightly different angle. First, I'll tell you who was invited. Minister of State Administration Arto Aas, Advisers of the Ministry of Finance Ave Viks and Olivia Tellute and Head of Department of the Ministry of Finance Sulev Liivik were invited. After the Minister's review, the Minister first asked what were the main fears that people felt about administrative reform. The minister spoke first of all about schools. He noted that the administrative reform and the merger of municipalities did not close any schools or open any new schools. However, since the organisation of education is one of the most important tasks of the municipalities, with a high budget cost, he highlighted it. In addition, he said that there was fear of power shifting away from the population. At the same time, village movements and communities are more systematically supported in many large and strong municipalities than in small municipalities. On the third topic, the Minister noted the question of the possible name of the merging municipalities, but stressed that the merging municipalities had to agree on the common name themselves. The Commission noted that the administrative reform was carried out in Latvia several years ago and asked whether the draft preparers had received information from their Latvian colleagues on how the administrative reform had affected the capacity of the Latvian municipalities. The Minister replied that there were different views in Latvia. Some Latvians believe that the administrative reform has been a major success, but there are those who would like to carry out an even greater reform. In his opinion, the question in Latvia is rather whether they are limited to the reform that has been carried out or whether they are going to the next stage. The question of name was discussed in greater detail. If the merged municipalities are unable to agree on the name of the municipality, a new name will be chosen, which may not be appropriate in the long term. They asked how the name of the seat council was included in the selection process. The advisor of the Ministry of Finance explained that the name would help to select the merger consultants who are already active in 20 regions. When the merger consultants advise on the name selection, they themselves consult the Institute of the Estonian Language and the Council for Place Names to make sure that the name is appropriate. The Commission was also asked that, if four exceptions are provided for in the application of the minimum criterion, whether the exception is the law of the local government or the obligation of the Government of the Republic. The Minister replied that the government could apply a derogation. Municipalities must request a derogation from the government, explaining why the municipality needs an exemption and explaining how it will be managed in the future. The advisor of the Ministry of Finance added that, once the municipalities have voluntarily negotiated the merger, they will eventually submit their application to the county governor and explain how they meet the criteria for exemption and how they will be able to fulfil their duties. However, this does not provide an automatic guarantee that these municipalities will remain an exception, as the Government of the Republic has the right to consider whether the application of one or the other exception is appropriate or whether a particular municipality should still be connected to another. So the right of weight stays with the government. Further, there was an interest in the municipalities, which consisted of separate pieces, following the administrative reform. The Minister replied that new municipalities consisting of separate pieces could not be formed in the course of the administrative reform, but those which already have separate pieces, for example, were brought to Kohtla-Järve and Narva, would not be changed. In principle, those municipalities which already act as separate pieces can continue in the same way. More specifically, it asked about the formation of divisions and what stage of the merger the municipalities would be put in place. The Minister replied that the number of municipalities was not limited in the draft. If one of the joint councils wishes to form a division, the Act of Accession requires the formation of a division for the next four years. In the meantime, no one else can lose the status of authority; this can only be done on the basis of the wishes of the municipality body. The municipalities do not need to be within the limits of the current municipalities, and not all existing municipalities need to be municipalities. It was also asked at what stage the merging municipalities were entitled to the merger grant and in which cases this grant would no longer be paid. The Minister replied that the merger grant could be obtained by the municipalities that decided on the merger at council level by the end of 2016. They're still getting merger support. No aid shall be paid to those who make a decision later. The members of the committee also expressed an interest in the substance of the amendments to the Local Government Council Election Act as set out in the draft. The advisor of the Ministry of Finance replied that the only important and substantive change to the changes to the Local Government Council Election Act was that the merging or merged municipality would be allowed to form electoral districts by group of municipalities. So far, it was only possible to do so within the borders of the merging municipalities or to do so in a common constituency, but it is now possible to form different electoral districts. For example, if there is a very large merger, it is possible to form a couple or three electoral circles. I would stress that other points were discussed in the Commission, but there were also talks about them in this Chamber today, and I am not going to go over that again. Now for procedural decisions. They were next. Firstly, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session today (consensus), secondly, that the first reading be closed (by 6 members of the Commission, no one opposed, 4 members were impartial), and yet the Commission proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days. The deadline for amendments is therefore 20 April at 5.15 p.m. This decision was also made by consensus. Siim Kisler was appointed rapporteur for the Commission by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U231	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U232	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Listening to these answers and to your analyses and reasoning, there is an increasing impression that this is not an administrative reform, but a restructuring of Estonian administrative areas, which serves the objective of achieving the desired result of the Reform Party's elections. This is not an administrative reform; it is part of the election campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U233	Well, I didn't have time to justify anything here yet, but if you have such a doubt, I assure you that there is no need for this kind of effort to achieve a certain election result in order to develop such a comprehensive draft administrative reform law. The current Estonian Administrative Division Act also gives the central government the opportunity to initiate the merger of local governments, make proposals, take decisions. If you have such doubts, know that this could have been achieved in other ways. But I don't believe in this theory.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U234	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U235	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Please tell the big hall again, which are the reasons why we do not dare to come up with the idea of "local government tax reform" in the draft administrative reform. We know that roughly 75% of the tax revenue goes to the central government and 25% to the local level. Why do we not dare to show that we are also making some changes in the distribution of resources that will give local authorities more strength and capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U236	It is certainly not a question of courage, but of political will. If you look at the growth of the state's income, at the state's economic situation, then it is clear that the times have passed when you could afford to throw more money at someone. Adding a lot of money somewhere on the line means you have to take that money away from somewhere. I think it's irresponsible to say that we're just giving you money to take it and do something nice! The money should go along with the tasks, but the delivery of tasks depends on how large and capable the municipalities are. It is clear that it is relatively foolish for a municipality with 150 inhabitants to commit to upper secondary school, for example. The larger and stronger the municipalities are created by the administrative reform, the more they can be assigned tasks. And the more we can assign tasks to them, the more we can give them money along with the tasks. So everything starts with the size of the municipality, which will result in the next steps. Can't say "C" until A" and "B" are said.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U237	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U238	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! We have made various administrative reform plans with you for a few decades. There has always been talk of possible exceptions, as has been the case today in the small islands and so on. But in general, it has always been assumed that municipalities could be relatively similar in size, be they county sizes or around the centres of attraction. As a result of the reform currently under discussion, one county may become one municipality, while another county may have seven or eight municipalities. Was there any discussion at the meeting of the Commission as to whether this situation makes sense from the point of view of Estonia's development?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U239	It wasn't directly discussed. I'm sorry you didn't ask the government waitress. I find it difficult to explain why some municipalities can stay with 150 people and the other must join at least 5 000 people. I do not understand the idea of exceptions, all the more so since it has been pointed out here that the island of the inland waterway must be united and that the marine island must not. I think everyone could join us. At the same time, it is a compromise of the bill that does not force fools to make decisions and mergers. The bill encourages reasonable mergers. Everything is simply in the hands of the municipalities themselves, they decide whether they form strong municipalities, which also include attraction centres and take into account people's daily movements, or they make very irrational choices, such as some narrow geographical hedgehog, without taking into account the daily movement of people. These choices are up to the municipalities themselves. This administrative reform law would certainly allow very good merger decisions to be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U240	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U241	We cannot, fortunately, sign up to such subjective bases in the law, so that the conditions apply equally to everyone. The first part of the question was how the government behaves during the period of voluntary accession. We, as has been said, are giving advice, we have allowed the use of our accession consultants, the hiring of project managers for accession, to set up regional committees. But until the end of this year, it's an advisory job. The decisions will still be made by the local government councils. According to the law currently in force, the Government of the Republic has the right to approve or not approve mergers; this right will continue to exist. Here before, someone asked if there was a very strange formation, if there was a government right to intervene. Yes, the law gives this right, but we hope that we will not have to implement it and that these decisions will not have to be made. In fact, the accession agreements and choices that will be concluded during this year are logical and rational in every way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U242	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U243	Mr. Minister! The draft under consideration has operational tails, which are actually more extensive than the main part of the draft. And one of these, perhaps the most extensive, deals with various changes to the Local Government Council Election Act. My question is this: who has been your leading assistant or expert who has formulated the political innovations of the electoral system? Or did you do it yourself? Or have they emerged in such a way that there can no longer be multiple-mandated electoral circles, except Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U244	We do not foresee any cardinal changes to the electoral arrangements. It is possible to form electoral districts either with former municipalities or on the basis of local government groups. Tallinn currently has a different electoral arrangement and will continue to do so. When you ask for a partner, the main partner and the formulation of these sections has been the Riigikogu Election Committee from this very building. I'm sure they can comment on all these nuances. There hasn't been a big political agenda here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U245	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U246	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U247	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the crucial Treaty, the Treaty of Accession, in particular its legal force, when it comes to accession. Life has shown that contracts have been violated. The contract may not be honoured. The question is this: do you see the need to link the Accession Treaty more closely with the area of justice, for example, so that it is automatically transposed into the development agenda of the local government? After all, development plans are the documents on the basis of which the budget is drawn up. Perhaps it would give both the opposition and the coalition an opportunity to consider a reasonable discussion and not to reduce the accession agreement as a so-called stand-alone document which, in a sense, would be separated from the whole system in the new municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U248	There are legal questions here, but if there is a concrete proposal on how to legally link the Accession Treaty to the official documents of the municipality in any way semi-automaticly or automatically, it is welcome. It is logical that the points of the Accession Treaty will also be included in the development plans and the budget. It's a natural course of action. For the time being, we have based ourselves on the fact that the amendment of the Accession Treaty is very difficult. This gives sufficient assurance to the smaller parties that the agreements will be respected. We think that's enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U249	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U250	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a question about the involvement of scientists. I am a member of the Board of Governors of the University of Life Sciences and I have asked from the University of Life Sciences about management and the Institute of Economics and Social Affairs how many of them are involved in the process of preparing administrative reform. The answer has been that there is no involvement at all. The University of Life Sciences, however, is a university where the right number of competences has been gathered over time, which would certainly have been helpful in preparing the draft. Why is that choice? Why has the University of Life Sciences been excluded from this preparation process?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U251	Indeed, we have had scientists and lecturers from Tallinn University and the University of Tartu. There are quite a few of them, these are people who have excelled in their research and previous activities as leading experts in this field. I guess the contribution of the good people of the University of Life Sciences in this area has not been as visible to the public at least. But we've had dozens of public meetings, meetings, rounds of engagement in preparation for this draft. I very much hope that the people of Earth University have had a chance to contribute.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U252	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U253	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You probably don't know that we have the resources in our offices to monitor what's happening in the hall. So I know very well what you've been saying here. What you answered me was, in fact, only the information that is written in the bill. I asked you to pay attention and get it right! In practice, how will non-accession municipalities be merged? Don't you think we're going to drown in court cases? It's not like the way the police are gonna throw out the furniture and nail the doors shut, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U254	No, this concern is not justified. This bill, when it becomes a law, will not lose any place names or touch any place names at all. This is about administrative units, not settlement units. Before, the question was whether any of the towns would disappear. The city as a settlement unit and as a place name and human habitat will, of course, remain, and nothing will change in the same direction or the other way around. The question is, what do we call the municipality? In fact, it would be clearer if a single term were mentioned in Estonia. In Finland, the word 'Kunta' is used as a general name; in Latvia, a separate term 'novad' was used to indicate the merged municipality simply to avoid confusion, so that people can understand that the city, as such, will not disappear, simply the municipality may in future have a different species name.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U255	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U256	I'm gonna start from the back. We are preparing the analysis of the removal of state institutions from Tallinn; we are currently collecting proposals from different ministries. We can probably present some results at the end of May. According to the government's programme of action, we have the final date for this task in August. At the time of this answer, I now forgot the first part of the question. Ah, funding. Well, there's been a lot of talk here about certain arrangements being made. Very much depends on the possibilities and negotiations of the state budget. As I said, money is always missing, and there are no simple solutions. But suggestions and additional requests have been made. The number of municipalities is currently pure speculation. There are so many negotiations going on that it is difficult to say. At present, the municipality has a median size of 1800 to 1900 inhabitants. If we raise this minimum to 5,000, this kind of arithmetic on the fingers says that they're going to be three or four times less than they are now. We'll see about the negotiations. Let's take the example of Saaremaa. It's not known if there's one-two or four-five municipalities. The bouquet of options is still wide enough and no specific number can be stated. And we have not, in fact, had to reach a certain number in preparation for this draft. The aim is, however, to create logical, stronger, larger, more capable municipalities. That's how we've approached the enterprise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U257	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I'm gonna keep going on the road roll. The capital of our country is known to have two well - working rollers. We are currently working on a very important bill for Estonia, and do you want to work together between the opposition and the government coalition in this work, taking into account the constructive proposals of the other party as well? Or are you gonna start a roller, knowing you're gonna win anyway? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U259	I look forward to constructive proposals. As far as I have been watching, I believe that all the political parties represented in Parliament have said that administrative reform is necessary, and this has given me confidence. Yes, of course, the opposition may have its own proposals and visions and, as far as possible, would like to take them into account. I hope that the opposition will not simply turn the roller on to make a riot without making any substantive proposals. I really hope so. So far, the preparation process has been pleasantly rational. It has been long and tiring, but we have met very much with the local government leaders and repeatedly with the members of the Centre Party and with the representatives of other political groups and regions. All the work has been done in an open and inclusive manner. If we continue in this way, we could also reach the end of this process in Parliament, of course, with the objectives of the draft law still in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U260	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U261	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have already repeatedly answered the question that I am asking. Monika Haukanõm asked about public services. I am concerned about the services provided by the Social Welfare Act. I am thinking precisely of social services. Internships show that we often leave large cities alongside Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and also Viljandi, small municipalities offering welfare services more than many others, some thousands of them larger municipalities. In fact, it is not unknown to anyone that until now it is not exactly agreed what the tasks of the state and which of the municipality are. However, it is constantly approached, and something was written in the Social Welfare Act as well. Was the Ministry of Social Affairs involved in this debate, and has it also been taken into account that services should not go further for people living on the outskirts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U262	The Ministry of Social Affairs was involved, indeed, and this work is actually going on to analyse whether any functions that are self-governing in nature can be transferred to municipalities after this reform has entered into force. The Ministry of Social Affairs has been an open and active party in this work, as far as I know. Let's see what agreements we can reach. The truth is, I guess we're the active and sometimes aggressive side. We go to all the administration in a good way, trying to convince them not to keep all things under the belly of the central government. In a few years, the image of the municipality will be quite different; we will return many functions and money to the municipalities again. I hope that the ministries led by the various political forces will accompany these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U263	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The merger of municipalities is accompanied by a large-scale concentration, as one of your goals is to optimise the administrative costs of the municipality. Local authorities are the largest job providers in rural areas. According to preliminary estimates, around 5 000 people currently employed by local authorities could lose their jobs during this process. Alternatively, all these people could go to work in the private sector, but entrepreneurship in rural areas is not attractive. What perspectives do you offer these people, or how will administrative reform contribute to improving the business environment in the countryside?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U265	I must admit that I am not very well aware of the disciplines and disciplines that scientists are strong at the University of Earth. I've had relatively little contact with this university. Now, if I'm wrong, I'm very sorry, but as far as I know, they don't deal directly with administrative arrangements. But maybe I'm wrong. They certainly do not deal with the administrative arrangements of the cities. I have been working very closely on this subject for many years, but I have not read the research papers from the University of Earth. We generally have this competence at Tallinn University, Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu. Just as the Academy of Music is not involved, the University of Life Sciences is not involved, where knowledge in this field may not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U266	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U267	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! In the recent past, there are examples that IRL has a habit of using financial pressure wherever possible to get what it wants. Minister Aaviksoo once said that if you don't add schools, you just don't get the money, that's all. And that's exactly what he did. You will now do so, that those who do not unite will not receive support, and those who join will receive a carrot, i.e. not knowing where the change of law came from, instead of a six-month wage. On the basis of which paragraph, for example, has the compensation of the dismissed farmer been increased from six months' salary to 12 months' salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U268	As far as I know, this bill doesn't work at all. There is no talk here, and the initiator can confirm that their benefits are not covered in any way by this bill. As far as the local government leaders are concerned, I do not find this section for you right now, but I have seen this section here in the draft law on administrative reform and I assure you that it exists here. When it comes to financial pressure or taking away money, I don't see anything being taken away from anyone under this bill. This bill will only give you more money, and with a relatively generous hand. I don't see a problem here in that sense. You also referred to the merger of schools, but, as far as I know, there has been no compulsory integration of schools in Estonia in recent years. Looking at EHIS data on the number of schools, it is strange to see that in some years of the recent past the number of schools in Estonia has increased rather than decreased. It is one of the great legends that huge school closures are taking place in Estonia. If you can name a closed school, I think you'll be in trouble if you want to name more than five. In fact, there are isolated examples of this in Estonia. I think schools should close much more and much faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U269	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U270	Thank you! Good waitress! A little bit of my conversation with the whip and the carrot thing, but I still have the same question. It is known that the municipality manager who lost his or her job as a result of the merger will receive compensation or compensation, as stated in the draft, and will be paid out of the amount of the merger grants. One question is, did I read it right? Now, let's go. If one of the small local government leaders has rejected all the suitors, does not look to anyone and the merger grant does not come to the detriment of the local people, of course, then does this local government leader not have to expect compensation under this new law, but receive it under another law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U271	This was not directly addressed by the Commission. However, I understand the draft that if the municipality does not join in the so-called voluntary round, its managers will not receive compensation under the clause of the compensation referred to, they will already be subject to the provisions in force. Indeed, the compensation linked to the merger is paid out of the amounts of the merger aid provided for in the draft law. I think it is fair in this sense that if these municipalities were to remain separate, more local government leaders would have to be paid four years' wages. In total, if only one year's salary is paid, the three year's money has been found on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U272	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U273	Thank you! Dear waitress, Suppose three or four municipalities negotiate tensely, agree on an accession agreement, everything has been decided, but they have a moody neighbor next to them who doesn't want to talk to or talk to or join anyone. In a year's time, the municipality will join these three or four local governments who have done a good job in a forced merger by the Government of the Republic. How is it still solved? In fact, it confuses all the meaningful work, nullifies the preparation of the accession agreement and makes the terms of accession significantly different for all municipalities? How can this be resolved so that all the other municipalities that have joined should not suffer because of one municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U274	It was also mentioned in the Commission, but it was approached from a different perspective. There may be a municipality that really wants to join another, but others just don't take it. Maybe so. It's not that he doesn't want to, but the others disagree. However, the situation is, overall, the same as you described. That was what was said in the Commission. The Minister pointed out that there was no accession bonus in the second stage, but that the direct costs of the merger would be covered. In this respect, it is indeed difficult that there will be a further merger and there will be no support. As regards the Treaty of Accession or the outcome of the negotiations, there are two concepts in the draft law. One is an accession agreement concluded by the municipalities that have voluntarily carried out the process. Those who are merged on a proposal from the Government will be the subject of an additional accession agreement and then, in essence, it will be an amendment to an already concluded accession agreement. Today, in answering one question, the Minister also addressed this issue. Inevitably, this is an uncomfortable situation, but what do we do? We are one Estonia, we must in some way also care for the people who live in an area which, for one reason or another, has been excluded from the accession process. Hopefully, the municipalities to whom the outsider is added will be sympathetic. It is better, of course, that, in anticipation of such a situation, those who are not particularly recommended will also be involved immediately. They could still be involved immediately in the accession process, because after that, a government proposal must be joined anyway. The additional aid will then also be paid. Here, as has been pointed out in the Commission's meeting, regional committees have an important role to play, which must provide support and take the initiative to involve these authorities in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U275	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U276	Thank you for your question. In the course of the Commission's debate, however, there was talk in the context of the continued existence of rural governments. Well, he's a strange problem, isn't he? If you say that the county, as such, does not have a very large role to play when one municipality arises, I dare say that the county, as such, does not have a special role to play at the moment. We have county governments that operate within the county, but in many cases the county itself has only an identity value, and legislation also defines some areas or some kind of service units within counties. In some ways, rural government is a misleading name. The county governments do not rule much in the county, they are simply public authorities operating on a territorial basis. Certain areas are divided into territorial units, which, indeed, are separate public authorities. If municipalities are county-sizes, I very much hope that such municipalities will still occur, at least in smaller counties, then really the county government could only have supervisory functions. The county is primarily an identity unit. However, it has also been said that the Constitution only provides for two types of municipalities: the city and the municipality. In fact, the Constitution says that other municipalities may be envisaged. Perhaps to suggest that if a county-sized municipality were to occur, its name would also indicate that it was a county-wide municipality. Such an opportunity could be envisaged in itself, perhaps it would motivate someone to create a large county-based municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U277	There are no further questions for the Commission's rapporteur. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U278	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you very much for a meaningful 1.5-hour performance for the minister who actually passed a pretty rough gauntlet! Thank you, too, to Sulev Liiku with a team that has worked hard to put such a reform agenda together! But indeed, today the Riigikogu has a draft administrative reform law at first reading, the main content of which is the timetable for the administrative-territorial reform of local governments and the fact that the minimum criterion for accession is 5000 inhabitants, as well as the payment of merger grants. The Estonian administrative map is scheduled to be redrawn for the 2017 local elections. This deadline is intended to lead to both the voluntary merger and the so-called forced merger phase initiated by the government. By now, very many local government leaders have taken the first accession phase very seriously and, in order not to disappoint them in the reform, we would like to pay attention to a very wide range of substantive issues. We very much hope that when we propose amendments to the draft law on administrative reform, they will be taken into account and will speed up the start of the administrative reform. What, then, are these substantive questions? Functions of municipalities, financing of municipalities, development of entrepreneurship and living environment in rural areas, organisation of public administration at regional and regional level. These issues will be allowed to be governed by the following draft laws. It has already been made clear that no changes are planned to be made to the municipal income base before 2018. It seems that as there is no consensus on substantive issues within the government coalition, there is no hope of seeing these drafts in the Riigikogu in the near future. It is therefore impossible to assess the consequences of such a mechanical reform. It is said that a larger municipality is better and more capable. This does not prove, however, that the merger of municipalities is beneficial. In many cases, there are no logical reasons for joining a particular attraction centre in some regions. Experts have already warned that the mechanical interconnection of municipalities without measures to develop rural areas will lead to even greater peripheralisation in many parts of the world. The state reform promoted by the government last spring has only degraded to redraw maps. Without content, it does not improve the accessibility of services or the living environment in municipalities. It must be said that poor access to public services in particular has made life in rural areas difficult for people, whether it be public transport, postal services or road maintenance. The Government of the Republic is committed to anchoring the consequences of non-existent regional policy. The people of Estonia have left the country abroad and into cities, because the country's incompetent economic and regional policy has made life impossible in these regions. The strong position of the Estonian Centre Party Group is that the draft administrative reform can be assessed once the draft laws on the content of the reform have been developed. We also disagree with the government's plan to implement forced alliances as a matter of urgency. Instead, we believe that entrepreneurship and the development of the countryside should be addressed. The State should ensure free regional public transport, available medical care and other public services. We believe that the first thing to do is to agree on the tasks and funding of local authorities at the legislative level. We recall that, in the context of the economic crisis, the share of personal income tax received by municipalities in 2009 as well as the resources for road maintenance was reduced. Despite repeated proposals by local governments, these funds have not been restored and municipalities have lost nearly 400 million euros of their income base over seven years. A good example of financing at central and local level is upper secondary school education. How does state upper secondary school differ from municipal upper secondary school? The answer is simple: state upper secondary schools are financed from the state budget according to needs, including large investments, but municipal upper secondary schools are not. Until substantial changes have been made in the functioning of the municipality, in the income base and in the regional administration of the state, we cannot support the mechanical and often illogical unification of local governments. Before the second reading of the bill, we propose that the government develop and bring to the Riigikogu sectoral draft laws that give its content to the administrative reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U279	And now, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Artur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U280	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a great deal of talk about administrative reform, state reform, self-government reform, and there are many aspects to talk about, as we can see here today. But to figure out what the Free Party really thinks about all this, I brought a few tools to explain it figuratively to you. First of all, I will show you the vertical power that has developed in Estonia. If we look at the current situation, down here, this green, maybe even the lower part of this green, is the grassroots level. In the meantime, there are municipalities, there's a nicely lazy central government up here. The vertical is, as you can see, very prone to fall over. In order not to fall over, clever specialists have built invisible piles called food chains. If this reform is to be implemented, the central power will in principle be further removed from the grassroots level and will make its level even wider when it is brought together. The risk of a crash is getting bigger. There is therefore a need for even stronger piles that hold the vertical power of power, even stronger food chains that maintain the social structure of Estonia as a whole. Now I will show you what kind of Estonia the Free Party wants to create with the help of the administrative reform. It's completely different. It's not vertical, it's a pyramid, and this pyramid looks like this. First of all, there is one very important detail in this pyramid. In fact, power is not far from the people; power is very close to the grassroots level. Another good thing is that local governments are close to the people and close to the government, and they have a good force, they have independence, they can say the word, and they have autonomy. In the meantime, there are also communities that can decide for themselves what concerns their region, and there is a central government upstairs. Can I have a little more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U281	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U282	There you go. In order to build such a vertical one, today's draft law may be used as a basis, but there are a lot of amendments that need to be introduced. These amendments concern in particular this lowest level. So, what are we criticizing? We are critical of the fact that with this reform the power of the people may go even further, we would give this low level a strong decision-making power. In order for this to work, it would be very necessary for the government coalition to listen to the opposition as well. At this point, however, I would like to ask Mr Ammas: do you really think that this question, which you raised here, that respectable parish elders get too much money, will be taken into account? Or does Andres Herkel think that it is really possible to have a meaningful view of the authorities? Or why do you, Külliki Hatter, stick your nose in Tallinn's problems? Do you really not understand that Tallinn is not dealt with in this bill because it is not to piss off the Centre Party? Or what do you, Monika Haukanõmm, have to do with these services? How can you say that services in large areas are not improving? In short, we have very many questions and we very much hope that the image of the new pyramid of power will be different, that the reform will bring about a change in mentality in the rule of Estonia as a whole. And finally, I will show you how well this different pyramid stands: it doesn't fall around anything and it stays up on the base of the skewed table that this table is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U283	Thank you, Artur Talvik! Take the blocks with you! Andres Ammas' name was mentioned in the speech and he has the right to be heard. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U284	President-in-Office of the Council. Indeed, I would like to speak on the basis of Article 70 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, as the speaker mentioned my name. I would like to comment on Mr Talvik's statement. As was the case with the Minister in the debate, the local government leaders who have worked well for a long time certainly deserve compensation, and this bill also provides them with a large amount of compensation. But no matter how good a thought can be made of abuse. In my opinion, it is not fair for compensation to be paid only for six months or for only a year. In particular, if the local government manager, either the Mayor of the Municipality or the Chairman of the Council or the Mayor of the City Council, has received his place because of an intrigue within the council, rather than on the basis of the mandate received from the people in the last local elections in 2013. And indeed, more and more news of power struggles in councils is being heard just now that there is just over a year until mass accession. The pattern also repeats that the large parties put their backs together and disown the representatives of the local electoral alliances from the power. Therefore, I think it would be right for us to make improvements to the draft in such a way that the possibility of compensation is, in any case, excluded as a motive for local changes of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U285	I think Andres Herkel has a request for an answer, because his name was also mentioned. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U286	I admit I didn't notice that Siim Kisler's name had been named, but I'm going to consider it a procedural question and answer it. The Free Party Group was not mistaken against the provision of § 70 of the Law. However, the point of this provision is quite different. The point of this provision is that if, in the course of negotiations, someone says something about a member of the Riigikogu that he or she feels clearly touched, he or she has the right to object. No objections were, in essence, received here. Indeed, § 70 is not intended to extend the time of negotiations for its group, which is five minutes plus three more minutes. We all believe that the Free Party will be able to accommodate its speeches in five plus three minutes in the future. We're optimists, aren't we? We now give the floor to Mr Helme, who will speak on behalf of our Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U287	Honourable speaker! Minister! Colleagues! We had a very long ministerial barbecue, during which it was repeatedly pointed out that past experience has shown how positive accessions and mergers are. At the same time, we have an example from Latvia, where we can bring a number of negative experiences, and there are also examples from Estonia. In 2005, the city of Türi and the municipality of Türi, the municipalities of Oisu and Kabala joined and brought together 11561 people. The population of this municipality has now fallen to 9800. So, what happened to those earlier little parishes? In the centers of Oisu and Kabala rural municipality, 3% of the population live in 35 villages and two villages, 58% in Türi city and 70% of the population of this municipality in the city and around Türi. Administrative costs decreased slightly by more than 9%. But at the same time, in 2012, the same service points went down, which, as we have heard, can always be kept busy. The fixed costs of the parish have always increased faster than the revenues. So the story that it is possible to maintain the same public services in smaller places or the same presence of public authority as before accession is simply not true. Why are we absolutely against the draft law on administrative reform? It is not that we are opposed to administrative reform as such. All of us understand that we need to implement the reform. The previous speakers also said that this not only concerns administrative-territorial reform, but there are a number of other problems that should also be addressed in a complex way. If we sum up very specifically what is the biggest mistake or problem with this reform, it is the fact that it leads to the formation of peripheralisation. This is exactly the opposite of what needs to be done in regional policy. In regional policy, we need to stop or reverse peripheralisation, but the administrative reform will forge peripheralisation. In smaller municipalities, which now disappear, schools disappear, libraries disappear, cultural houses disappear, road maintenance becomes less frequent. And none of the assurances from this remote control that it is possible to decide that these services will continue or that these institutions will continue are actually credible or credible. We understand that there are no representatives of the smaller places in the new large parish council. What is the result of peripheralization? Extremism brings demographic challenge to Estonia. We know that the birth rate in rural areas is higher than in large cities. If rural areas remain even more empty, Estonia's demographic situation will get worse. This also means a security challenge for Estonia. If our border areas are deserted, our security is undermined, we will no longer effectively control these territories. We get an economic thrill because every thinking person understands that it is not possible for us to have a successful, functioning economy if we have two major cities and some life around it, and the rest of Estonia is empty and struggling. And it is quite clear that we are also going to have a budgetary thrill, because the costs of this reform are completely wasted money, which does not make anything any better. All of us understand that there are two points to this enterprise. Firstly, to create at least one tape cutting event before the 2017 local elections, i.e. to complete projects here, there and in the third place. Second, pay off the local government leaders. After all, this is what is going to be the cause of an industrious change of power. Democracy is a separate issue which has also been addressed by the previous speakers. I do not know whether this is the end of an increase in the democratic deficit or even of democracy. Let's take the same Türi example. For the subsequent elections, the electoral alliances, or local initiative, were completely lost. There was no local grassroots initiative coming from below. So we can see how large local governments, without a sense of home and community, become clearly party battlefields. The principle enshrined in the Constitution no longer pays, the practice of exercising public authority with the political culture so far, that local government is the organiser of local life, disappears. It just doesn't exist anymore, because if we have a municipality half the size of a county, there's no way to do anything about it. Maybe there's some angle to it, but those corners are dying out. As many have said here, 20 years of administrative reform have been delayed. This stretched until the Reform Party figured out how to squeeze political benefits out of it. And the benefits are clear. Greater vertical power will be created, party control of local governments will be established, and all other initiatives will accompany it from the reduction of the election age to the fact that the Riigikogu will also be allowed to be members of the council in the future. Care is taken to ensure that there is no concern in the next presidential elections that there is no control over the field. So the reform of the municipality makes all things worse, which are already bad, and nothing makes any better. It spends a huge amount of money, shakes people, kills life in the country. It's completely incomprehensible how a thing like this can even come out here with an honest face. I do not have time to talk about what our proposals are, how this reform will be carried out, but the two key ideas are: firstly, to the money, and secondly, to the power of local authorities. Against this background, the Conservative People's Party Group proposes to vote the draft at first reading out of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U288	On behalf of the Group of the Urve Tiidus Reform Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U289	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to say three points at the end of today's debate on the draft law on administrative reform and administrative reform. These thoughts are less optimistic than those of the previous speaker. Firstly, if the administrative reform is able to control the global urbanisation trend in Estonia, it will benefit both the people and culture in the long term. By simplifying Charles Darwin's theory of evolution, we all come from the sea. In Estonia it can be said that almost all of us come from the country. Those who can write generations of townsmen in family history are much less proportional than those whose ancestors were rural men and peasant women. The latter include me. A million people live in cities every week in the world. Last year, the number of cities with more than a million inhabitants was already half a thousand. Purely speaking, Estonia's people would also be able to meet a metropolis of this scale. However, this never happens in reality, even if it is because there are so many beautiful places in Estonia to live and raise children outside the larger cities, and fortunately there are also people who are not attracted by the lights of the big cities. Estonia was, is and will remain a country where metropolitan regions grow, as elsewhere in the world, but also the outermost regions will last. The central role of the Administrative Reform Act is to ensure that the quality of local living arrangements, competitiveness, especially in the fields of education, culture and social services, and the attractiveness of the community in the eyes of enterprising, job-creating people do not fall far short of larger centres. More importantly, the risk of peripheralisation and poor transport arrangements must not force people to make a one-off move. Secondly, when a new law is born, it is natural to ask a question, but what do I gain from it? In the case of the Administrative Reform Act, this is asked in every corner of Estonia. Ideally, the rise in the quality of public services in line with growing expectations in society, rapid solutions to all local problems, even better schools, more flexible childcare services, etc. Governments, also local authorities, are known to be under constant pressure, not only in Estonia, but throughout the world, to provide more, better, public services, especially those with the best value-for-quality ratio, with lower costs. The purpose of the administrative reform is to increase the capacity of local authorities to provide local services at first professional level and at the right time, for example, to derail the winter roads, and secondly, not to increase the administrative costs per resident, but also to ensure that people in a remote area are not left alone and on their own in the event of remoteness of the rural municipality centre. This last one is really the hardest. The people who hold the office of head of government in this Chamber know how different the municipalities are depending on whether there are 600 taxpayers or 6,000. With regard to the draft law on administrative reform, it is worth pointing out the impact that is called the effects of scale. Analysis of the financial management of local authorities confirms that the proportion of management and support services and preparedness costs in larger local authorities is indeed decreasing, more money remains for substantive activities, co-financing and independent investments. At the same time, I must say that the effects of scale cannot be achieved in every municipality of all sizes. But that is what may contain the birth of too great a government. As mergers of local governments have already taken place in Estonia, the administrative reform will not take Estonia to terra incognita. At this point, I recall the recognition of a cultural worker in one of the smaller parishes that they had to do everything on their knees before, and now there is still a budget, and good ideas are not just an idea. I also quote two Saaremaa men who have moved back to their roots among many. One of them, the young architect, came back to the island because the time is too expensive, the morningtime of sitting in Tallinn's congestion was an obvious waste of time. Another man to whom the clean environment and inspiring nature are important said the primal truth: 'If administrative reform is really to work, the EIT must be called on to help. " However, not a woman, but good electrical connections, fast internet and transport. Thirdly, to see a step in administrative reform that solves all the problems related to the organisation of community life in Estonia would be excessive idealism, as has already been said here. If all the problems related to the functioning of the local government level were purely mathematical, the algorithm needed to solve it would have been written long ago. The experience, knowledge, mistakes and successes gained over the years of the period of internalisation, the long-standing political debate, research carried out by scientists, all previous work on administrative reform and previous plans have helped to understand what is necessary, so that political decisions and legislative action can lead to more harmonious regional development in Estonia. The Administrative Reform Act is, of course, part of the process in order to create these preconditions. The renewal of the Equalisation Fund formula, the inclusion of a component to avoid marginalisation, the analysis of existing principles of fiscal autonomy and the search for better solutions, the increasingly smartly-designed regional investments are essential components in order to succeed in implementing the good intentions of the administrative reform. The Estonian Reform Party Group supports the completion of the first reading of the draft law on administrative reform and wishes to cooperate well in its further processing. Finally, before the administrative reform and after the administrative reform has been carried out, the people who promote local life, the entrepreneurial and passionate leaders who want their village and municipality to do well and their neighbourhood to be a decent place to live. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U290	Thank you. The previous speaker mentioned my name and our Rules of Procedure allow me to comment on it. On the contrary, I would like to point out that this abuse and trickery of the Rules of Procedure is not the way a group is traded at first reading with the right to speak several times. I really hope the Free Party doesn't organise such a circus any more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U291	I can still see, above all, that residents, civil society organisations, as well as private entrepreneurs, are partners for the new local government. We must ensure that there is no legal obstacle to this cooperation partnership. This has to be borne in mind. It is very good that there has been a great deal of discussion across Estonia. I think that those local authorities that have not taken any initiative or know where to move are still outnumbered. At the same time, it is also clear that advice must be given in situations where the intention is to join a government that has, for example, a political reason rather than a practical need to join. In this case, I believe that we should intervene and give good advice on how to see the practical benefits of this step. So nothing, good luck to us! I repeat, however, that in order to successfully process this bill, we expect everything that needs to come here. One thing is definitely the budget, the other is the county level and then other problems that need to be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U292	On behalf of the Group of the Andres Metsoja Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U293	President of the Riigikogu, I ask for more time to begin immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U294	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U295	The good Riigikogu and the respected party up there on the balcony, who are left sitting alone! But the subject is worth it. The first reform of rural municipalities in Estonia took place on the basis of the liberal rural municipality law that came into force in 1866. Municipalities, rural communities were formed, which had to lead their lives through councils of their own choosing. Vallavolikogud was to organise the economic life of the municipality, determine the municipal taxes and the wages of the municipal officials, take judicial supervision of both the municipal officials and the rural municipality elder who acted in the functions of local police. As the minimum size of the municipalities, the law included up to 200 male souls, but it was not strictly prescribed that they would necessarily have to join another rural municipality if they had a desire and enough money to act as an independent rural municipality. The law was based on the then free community theory, according to which the municipality of peasants had to balance requests for centralization of the state's central authority. Johann Voldemar Jannsen, born in Vändra parish, in Vana-Vändra parish, found in the editorial of the Estonian Postimees dedicated to the adoption of the Municipality Act that Estonians do not need small 'kirijolapid kogokonds' and that it is more appropriate to join, because the larger Kogokond, if he has any right managers and firsts, is still taking a longer step than the little one who does not have this power'. Everything new is a well-forgotten old one. The draft law on administrative reform 200 is by its nature similar to the next reform, i.e. the law on peasants, as amended in 1889. True, a roach has been added to the whip, and time has shaped its own. The ideology of administrative reform has been unacceptably much politically entertained, and Siim Valmar Kisler has also played a part. However, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association have consistently stood for the formation of strong self-government in elections, the drafting of a coalition agreement, the holding of government responsibility, and the actual organisation of mergers in local governments. It is true that the content of compromises is blurry and naive to think that one law will answer all questions and bottlenecks relating to administrative territorial and state reform. It must be honestly acknowledged that administrative reform is neither a magic wand nor a lifeline to solve all today's concerns: population decline, the proportion of older and disabled people above average, low incomes. These issues must be actively addressed at national and local level. At the same time, I am convinced that doing nothing will make it increasingly difficult for the small municipalities and the differences with the more successful ones. The so-called "nationalisation" of our local governments is also continuing, where the apparent decision-making power is at local level, but most of the money already has a label on it. A weak self-government is, in fact, a weakness of the whole country. This draft focuses mainly on changing the administrative division, encouraging activities and administrative arrangements. It is important to stress, however, that decisions to form the municipality of the future are placed in the hands of local government leaders, commissioners and the local community at all. Competences and understandings developed over the years, as well as cooperation experiences, are precisely the prerequisites for being able to shape a self-government that is suited to the modern system of living and meets the expectations of the population. It is often criticised that our political landscape has no sense of decision-making courage. This is a bold step, with an exceptionally high level of responsibility for Estonia's future. The minimum objective is limited by exceptions and a requirement of at least 5 000 inhabitants, but it can be ambitious and delineate for itself the possibility of strengthening the centres of attraction and the logic of the formation and functioning of the county government. And then the decisions made should be implemented. You don't have to keep it off the county line either. In fact, as residents of local governments, we do not think about administrative boundaries every day, but when we call our residence, we rely on the county identity: an islander, a giant, a limey, a viper, etc. As I have already mentioned, we must be ambitiously forward-looking at the level of both the community and the government and the Riigikogu. It is not enough to change the administrative distribution alone; a step in the right direction may prove wrong if there is no agreement on the destination. The IRL considers the stability of the income base and its formation to be an important part of a strong municipality. A one-off accession grant is necessary and we are also standing for an additional EUR 500 000 contribution if a municipality with at least 11000 inhabitants is formed, but we cannot overlook the changes to the financing model. For this purpose, at the meeting of the Cabinet, we have proposed to link the percentage of personal income tax to the average wage of the county. Economic differences between counties can and must be compensated by tax revenue in order to promote growth in the regions. According to the OECD report, which assessed the principles of local government funding, non-targeted subsidies are more effective than targeted ones. Consequently, the current rules prevent successful local governance. We want to significantly increase the decision-making power of the municipality. The municipality must have more discretion to use its revenue base and increase it by making different investments. The concentration of public money in Tallinn and Tartu is partly inevitable, but there are certainly a number of institutions that are justified in taking to Pärnumaa, Järvamaa or Lääne-Virumaa. There should not be a sacred cow in this debate that cannot even be touched in the debate. In the direction of Pärnumaa, I would like to open a discussion on, for example, the location of the tourism development unit of EAS, the central office of RMK and the Social Insurance Board. Finally, the sentence by which the Auditor General has been appointed by Mihkel Oviir: 'The fear of making unpopular decisions and therefore losing support among local so-called politicians must be discarded in order for administrative reform to take place, nor should it be possible to change the lines of power in the choice of one or the other solution. Until decisions are taken on the basis of which party would achieve the majority in councils if X or Y were left in the parish/city, we have no reason to talk about advanced political culture, but state-manship should not be remembered at all. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U296	Siim Kiisler's procedural question to the manager.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This is undoubtedly an important reform in the history of Estonia, the history of Estonian municipalities. This certainly affects almost all national citizens directly or indirectly. I have a question about the Commission's procedural decisions. Did I understand correctly that six members of the Commission considered it appropriate to proceed with the draft law on administrative reform and four opposed it? Is it known as the lead manager that the four who opposed basically do not support the implementation of administrative reform in Estonia or did they simply not want to support this draft? Did you get the impression that they still want to participate in the discussion of administrative reform and the adoption of the bill as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U298	I hope that I correctly quoted the minutes of the Commission's sitting. Just in case, I would say once again that there were six members of the Commission in favour of the proposal to close the first reading, none against and four abstentions from the Commission. In my opinion, the debate was very constructive in the Commission. If I am now trying to assess these moods in any way, I rather think that the'sceptics' position is hope that I am not mistaken for the need for administrative reform, but they would like to see it perhaps somewhat different.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U299	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U300	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said the question of names was also discussed in the committee. We know that we have Lääne-Virumaa and Ida-Virumaa, and more municipalities named according to such weather maps may also arise. The name Lääne-Harjumaa was discussed, which would not be a county, but a municipality. I do not think it makes any sense to use the names to the southeast, east, west, read, southwest, etc., but in many cases it is the name issue that poses serious problems in the final phase. I am pleased that, when Otepää and Pühajärve rural municipality were merged, the name was chosen not Northern Valgamaa, nor South Tartu, but a historical place name. The place names don't go away. Was it discussed in the Commission that when a name is chosen, the Government of the Republic should, if necessary, retain a decisive say in order to avoid abstract and vague names of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U301	It was said from the perspective that a new name should be approved by the Council before the government decided. It is logical for the central government to take into account the position of the seat-name board. As I have pointed out, when the merger consultants and regional committees advise the municipalities, they also involve the Council for the Names of the Estonian Language Institute so that it is already known that the name will be one that will be approved at a later stage. I agree that this is a problem. During the negotiations, it seems to some local government leaders that they will win something if the historic name of the neighbouring municipality does not remain the name of the new compound government. Perhaps for those residents who cannot name their settlement to a new municipality anyway, a new name may seem nice, but I agree with you that in two or three years' time, when people have tried to use these South Mulgian and Western Harjumaa names, they will ask why such a name was given. Even if they approve of it today, in several years it may seem pretty ridiculous to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U302	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U303	Thank you! Dear waitress, The question of the name is, of course, important, as Helir-Valdor Seeder rightly pointed out. After all, we have had political parties in front of this problem and the names of both parties have been merged, as did the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. But I actually want to ask about the so-called Saatse boot when it comes to administrative reform. We also have local governments whose borders do not exactly match. Some kind of brushy strip gets caught somewhere. At the same time, the road leads nicely to this so-called "upper self-government," maybe the difference of a few kilometres is just that. At the moment, the law states that borders must coincide. Is it not reasonable, however, to allow in certain cases to be joined without having a common border if it proves to be useful for geographical or other reasons? Maybe non-unification would create a much bigger mess.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U304	The Commission discussed how the current draft states. No other comments were received. It seems to me that, in general, if the spirit of this draft is rather liberal and liberal, all sorts of things are allowed quite freely and many have been left to the discretion of the local governments themselves, the predestinedness of the central government is relatively few, then this could be completely considered if the amendment was tabled. I was also the initiator when a few years ago an amendment was made that the islands were allowed to join without a common border. The point of this step, of course, was that in the long term, island-sized municipalities would emerge on islands and then this problem would be resolved anyway and should not be prevented. In the same way, they are ridiculed without a common border and in the form of separate pieces. On the other hand, if we already make any exceptions, maybe leave the government a margin of discretion in this regard. We could discuss this at second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U305	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U306	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Was the Commission also discussing the future of the county? I am referring not only to the county government as a state institution with its functions, but to the county as an administrative unit. What would happen if the merger had taken place? You spoke of Latvian experience. I talked about this with the former Prime Minister of Latvia, and he said that the biggest lack of reform in Latvia was perhaps that there was no role found for the county as such in Latvia. As a result, the development of the county centres has been severely impaired and historically established regional governance has deteriorated. This has been one of the major shortcomings of their reform. How are we? Has this been mentioned? Have you thought about that? And what if there's a county-sized government? Will there be, for example, Pärnu and Pärnu counties if there is no administrative unit at all, or would it be more reasonable to use the county than the historical name?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U307	Please ask me a question in one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U308	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure do not provide any other opportunity to speak here. But I would add so much that, quite clearly, the lack of this draft is a tendency to centralise power, although we believe it should be aimed at decentralisation. And in order to achieve this, it is essential to rewrite the part of the section that concerns it, so that it can really become a representative of the people on which it depends. Today, it is more of a death-death solution, as well as all that pertains to the local governments' income base, autonomy and the Tallinn issue. In fact, Tallinn requires decentralisation. It's not all there. The compensations Mr. Ammas was talking about. I would point out that a great deal was mentioned in Saue, but the most likely colourful example is Meremäe, where people came to express their minds in support of a socialist rural municipality elder who really see the need to create a culturally unified Seto parish. However, there should be a very adequate response to such signals in order to keep the grassroots level in mind, with regard to the cultural level. Finally, we must take into account that, as a result of this reform, as it is currently planned, there will probably be very much less members of local councils than today, perhaps even a thousand fewer people. All the more so, there is a need to support the level of the community and all the more so, the Riigikogu needs to think very carefully about the bill with which you want, the coalition, to allow members of the Riigikogu to return to local councils. It only leads to a concentration of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U309	Time's up, thank you! Hatter, welcome, please! I don't think you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U310	Thank you. I really want to open the eyes of Artur Talvik, and I actually tried to make one thing clear to the Minister. It is true that power is not wanted to be decentralized in Tallinn because the roles of Tallinn versus Stenbock remain. But this is not the only reason why Tallinn's administrative arrangements should be changed. This is also the reason for the unequal distribution of the same revenue base and the unequal approach to tasks. The Minister tried to make it clear to us that the small municipalities themselves were guilty of failing to carry out the tasks. But that's because we have very different municipalities in terms of size and ability. For example, giving every part of Tallinn municipal rights gives them greater responsibility to move forward on a community basis. The Minister also noted that Tallinn is no longer the designer of the country's economic culture. But we will then start cooperation, following the example of the Nordic capitals, with the involvement of local governments in the nearest vicinity of Tallinn, which will certainly provide more capacity and attractiveness. There's already a country problem in town. In order to develop more, more opportunities are needed. I very much hope that we do not see in our amendments that each proposal is approached with prejudice. We must all aim for the administrative reform to actually be a reform. We also need more substantive and bolder challenges that are not currently being presented by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U311	That concludes the performance of the Estonian Free Party Group and gives the floor to Ivari Padar on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U312	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult to add something important to what was said when this bill was handed over to Parliament. But one thing is clear: we are in a situation with society where steps are expected to change both the administration of the state and the administration of the local government. We gotta start somewhere in the corner. Our group is far from the view that this law on administrative reform will solve all regional policy problems and concerns. However, this is only one element called the "administrative-territorial reform" in particular. All of this, which concerns other regional policy measures, must be added to this law. I will also say that, in today's debate, some things that have been confusing so far have become clearer. Whether it is a question of name, which may seem merely a question of form, but in the whole context, however, it is tense in a very large number of people. Let the South Mulgimaa, for example, be mentioned here. At the same time, we have the names of respected parishes such as Helme. One of the replies noted the use of the competence of the "place name board'. In any case, this is one way to get out of these situations. Yes, there are a number of other things that we expect from the government in the process of this bill. The success of the draft procedure and whether the vote of the Riigikogu is also received in this Chamber depends to a large extent on what is still to come. One important issue that is already coming in 'calendically' is the country's budgetary strategy in April. Then we will see the black in white, what and how much budget is planned for local governments. However, I do not see the possibility of increasing this financing. One problem specifically concerns the financing of the reform, but the whole financing package cannot be reviewed unless it is clearly in place, which remains the responsibility of the state, which remains the responsibility of the local government. In any case, the confirmation that a coefficient that works in favour of rural areas and small towns will be applied to channel the additional money sounds very good. What we are certainly waiting for is to know how to regulate action at the county level. If there will be several municipalities within the county, how will their cooperation take place? On the other hand, the question is what the fate of the rural governments will be in the future. Now, one more thing. I do not want to believe that there are vicious people in this Chamber of Riigikogu who are working all the time to centralise and build this superstructure, as was shown here in the tiles, high at all costs. Yes, there are fears and threats. They must be dealt with. But I would also say that the activity of residents, entrepreneurs, civil society organisations is a very important prerequisite for the internal functioning of local government. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U313	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U314	Thank you. All political groups have exercised their right to participate in the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of the draft 200. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the draft at first reading and this proposal will be voted on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject 200 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 9 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 48 against and 7 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The first reading of the bill 200 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 20 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U315	The first reading of the Bill 189 of Amendment to the Equal Treatment Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Early waitress Margus Tsahkna, Minister of Social Protection, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U316	Dear Chairman, Good Riigikogu! I am pleased that there is such an interest in the draft that everyone came to the hall just before the first reading of this draft. We are dealing with the Equal Treatment Act here. The draft law amending the Equal Treatment Act aligns the Equal Treatment Act with Directive 2014/54/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights conferred on workers in the framework of the free movement of workers. Indeed, the free movement of workers is a fundamental right for the citizens of the European Union and one of the pillars of the European Union's internal market. The Equal Treatment Act gives workers and their family members who exercise their right to free movement in the European Union a better chance of being protected against discrimination at European Union level, which does not mean that employers are obliged to give preference to workers who are nationals of a Member State of the European Union. The amendment guarantees every citizen of a Member State of the European Union and his family member who has taken up residence and employment in Estonia the right not to be discriminated against on grounds of the nationality of a Member State of the European Union as regards employment, vocational training, education and the rights to social welfare, health and social security services and benefits, as well as the rights to goods and services offered to the public. In order to give effect to Directive 2014/54/EU, the Equal Treatment Act is amended so that citizenship of a Member State of the European Union is included in the list of discriminatory devices, which will enable the Commissioner in the future to strategically offer European Union citizens more effective opportunities to protect against discrimination. In extending this competence, the Commissioner will be given a new responsibility to assist workers and their family members in defending their rights in a Member State of the European Union. The Commissioner's office will also act as a contact point to cooperate with other Member States of the European Union, organise or commission further relevant studies and analyses, be responsible for ensuring compliance with the requirements of the Equal Treatment Act as regards discrimination on grounds of nationality, ensure publication of independent reports and make recommendations on the removal of restrictions and obstacles which result in discrimination on the basis of the nationality of a Member State of the European Union. The Commissioner has these competences in relation to other possible discriminations already mentioned in the Equal Treatment Act. In this context, it should be noted that the Equal Treatment Act also provides for exceptions to the prohibition of discrimination, in addition to the prohibition of discrimination, where they are based on objective considerations and are consistent and proportionate to the objective pursued by national law. Such distinctions are laid down, for example, in the Civil Service Act, which imposes restrictions on certain civil service posts based on nationality. In addition, the Directive obliges Member States to ensure that existing or emerging authorities are aware of information and support services at EU level. Appropriate information between the authorities responsible for the provision of information and support services shall be ensured by cross-referencing the Commissioner's office and on the websites of the said information and support services providers and by exchanging information between the authorities. In the context of the amendments to the draft proposal, the affected target group will be the citizens of the European Union and their family members. According to the 2015 survey of the Centre for Migration Studies of the Estonian Defence Academy, "Mapping profiles of immigrants who have legally migrated to Estonia and their compliance with the needs of the Estonian labour market', in the last six years, approximately 15000 citizens of a Member State of the European Union have registered their fixed-term right of residence in Estonia. It is important to mention here that more than citizens of a Member State of the European Union move to Estonia, Estonians leave Estonia to live and work in other Member States. Our proportion of people who go to work in other Member States of the European Union is higher than those who come here. The directive is therefore also an important guarantee for Estonian citizens in other EU Member States to protect their rights and avoid discrimination. The second target group affected by the amendment is Estonian employers. According to data from the study on the need for foreign labour in Estonia, 6% of employers have recruited foreign workers and most of the workers who arrived in Estonia have come from the Member States of the European Union. As bottlenecks in external recruitment, employers highlight the lack of information on recruitment and problems with language skills and cultural differences. By informing and raising awareness about the work of the above-mentioned support bodies, it can help to reduce these problems among employers. The proposal will lead to an increase in the workload of the Office of the Commissioner for Equality. In 2016, it is planned to initially place emphasis on information on the new possibilities for exercising and protecting the right of free movement of workers in the Member States of the European Union, at a minimum cost to the Commissioner's office and within the framework of the existing information centres concerned. The Commissioner has agreed that this year the budget of the Commissioner's office will be the source of the activities. As regards the Commissioner's office's budget and additional funding for next year, it is planned to be revised during the 2017 state budget negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U317	There are questions for the Minister. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. We are adopting a nice amendment here, but can it also be assumed that Estonian citizens will be treated equally with locals in other countries of the European Union, such as England?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U319	Thank you. Indeed, this directive, as I mentioned in my introduction, when it enters into force and is implemented, protects the citizens of the European Union, who are also citizens of the Republic of Estonia in Europe. The people of Estonia have gone elsewhere to work and live, and the interests of Estonian people who are citizens of the Republic of Estonia, as well as the citizens of the European Union, are also protected on the basis of this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U320	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U321	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm a little surprised at why we're so busy with this bill. Obviously, as we all know, this is a transposition of the directive, and this directive is from 2014. Are we going to have an infringement procedure or are we going beyond the deadline? How fast are we on this? Why am I asking that? Because it is well known that the Ministry has also prepared for a broader revision of the Equal Treatment Act in order to provide protection for citizens of its country on different grounds in different fields. It hasn't moved yet. Why couldn't we have done these things together, why are we so busy with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U322	Thank you, good questioner! The plan is, yes, the entry into force of this law on 21 May 2016. This is because Article 8 (1) of Directive 2014/54/EU, the directive we are talking about, provides that Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the Directive by 21 May 2016. Indeed, it is true that Estonia has joined this directive and that is why we are in a hurry.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U323	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U324	Good manager! Good minister! I read here that the changes do not have an impact on the living and natural environment. However, it states that it is also prohibited to discriminate against a family member of a person who is a national of a Member State of the European Union on the basis of the nationality of a Member State of the European Union. Does this mean, then, that discrimination is allowed now, until 21 May?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U325	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U326	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has been approached on issues of educational discrimination. I wonder if you are aware of what kind of appeals these were to our Commissioner for Equality. Is anyone discriminated against that these citizens are not getting an education, or what gap are we now filling? Do you know anything specific about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U328	Thank you. I'm not going to speculate exactly what the case has been. However, there has been talk with the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman about discrimination on the basis of education, whether or not the Estonian state recognises educational documents in certain areas of another European Union Member State. There's been some argument about that. But I really can't tell you what this particular case has been here. I also suggest that you address the Commissioner's office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U329	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U330	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the waitress! I look at this amendment with a slight amazement. Basically, I understand that the aim is to ensure that citizens of other European countries are not at a disadvantage on our labour market, which is a good goal in itself. But it seems to me that such a very harsh method is being used to achieve this goal. If you look at these changes now, I wonder whether it is meant to say that Estonia is allowed to discriminate against persons who hold the nationality of, for example, Syria, the US or Russia. After all, discrimination is in itself a pretty broad term and is not enshrined in the labour market. Should we not regulate these labour market matters in another law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U331	Thank you, good questioner! After all, the issue of discrimination is regulated both in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and in various sectoral laws. And I really have to admit that, at European Union level too, there are non-discrimination or regulatory laws and directives, such as patchwork, and we can say that out loud. Of course, it would be easier if everything were in one place. But more generally, in the international human rights conventions to which Estonia has acceded and which concern the rights of children and women, the rights of minorities, these principles are stated. And our judicial bodies and the office of the Commissioner for Equality also rely on these general principles to protect the interests of our people. The specific directive on discrimination on the grounds of European Union citizenship in the areas of work, education, access to social and health services, in particular, regulates whether a person has been discriminated against on the basis of nationality. And what is important is that we also provide for a specific institution to which the individual can turn. In Estonia, this is the office of our Non-Discrimination Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U332	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U333	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Obviously, this is another Euro bullshit. Somewhere in the office, some of the onks have put together some sort of discrimination concept, pure cultural Marxism, and we have some kind of chief inquisitor for tax money, whom we call the Commissioner, and then this crap is kicked on the table of Parliament and it is said to be accepted, because the directive commands. I have a simple question: does all this have anything to do with democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U334	Thank you. Democracy, I hope, has 101 representatives of democracy, representatives of the people, in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U335	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! In a situation where we are probably in relatively tight circumstances with the state budget, and we see that we are constantly transferring all kinds of public services to a voluntary basis, fire brigades and soon, I think, border guards, and I do not know who else we will have to volunteer, do you not think it would be wise to move the office of the Commissioner for Equal Treatment to volunteer work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U337	Thank you, good questioner! I'm still in favour of the fact that when a person works, he gets paid. That's the principle. But if, for example, he wants to contribute to the protection of the Estonian state, he also has voluntary opportunities, such as acting as a defence ally or an assistant police officer. There's no need to come up with new ways. As far as the Office of the Commissioner for Equality is concerned, it is rather a matter of increasing the level of responsibilities that are added to that office. They come in relation to people with special needs, and now, for example, it clarifies discrimination on the basis of this same European Union citizenship. It is no secret that I, too, asked when this institution of the Commissioner was set up, why couldn't the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, which is also an independent institution and whose team is properly funded, be involved in these matters. This question is, in fact, now that you answer this question in a constructive manner, still in the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U338	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U339	Good manager! Good Minister, explain this to me. Paragraph 1 (1) of the draft law reads as follows: 'the words 'or on the basis of sexual orientation' shall be replaced by 'on the basis of sexual orientation or the nationality of a Member State of the European Union'. The Confederation of Trade Unions has asked here, as they say, to be urged to add 'on the basis of family responsibilities', but you have said that it is not necessary. Explain to me why there is no need to impose a section on family responsibilities here!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U340	Thank you. We have been based on the fact that, as directly and as explicitly as possible, we have transposed those provisions which are formulated in the directive as an objective, and these, as you yourself have also cited, are precisely the provisions on discrimination based on the nationality of the European Union. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U341	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U342	Thank you. Looking at the current law, it deals with discrimination based on the characteristics of what a person is born with, which he cannot change. With this draft, something that is inherently part of labour legislation will be grafted into this area, where we have labour inspectors and for which we have a whole economic system. Is it not the aim of this law to overburden the Commissioner for Equality with issues that are not directly relevant to his area of activity in order to make this institution practically ineffective?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U343	Thank you. The logic of this directive is that the free movement of workers within the European Union is also one of the fundamental rights agreed in the European Union. At the same time, we have a 'citizenship' issue for the citizens of the European Union. And the logic here is that people have the right to move around within the European Union, to go where there is a job or better pay, and that on the basis that they have the nationality of a Member State of the European Union, the citizenship of the European Union, there would be no discrimination, because people, if they move from one country to another, will not apply for the nationality of the country of destination. It is also, in principle, not so easy to choose between different nationalities. More broadly, this directive aims to ensure that people can work in different places within the European Union without being discriminated against on the basis of their nationality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U344	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U345	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! Yes, I also agree that democracy is still alive and the torch of freedom is also on the march of victory in Estonia. However, I ask what happens if we now use this freedom and democracy and happily reject this draft. What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U346	Thank you. It will be what happens when one country has joined the directive and has not been able to transpose it in accordance with the agreement. Then there will be an 'infringement procedure', where I can now say 'negotiations', reminders and, ultimately, fines' for this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U347	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U348	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! As we understand now, the parliament of the Republic of Estonia is subordinate to European directives and there is no democracy or sovereignty on this issue. Perhaps you will simply mark that if we do not adopt the draft, it will not be confirmed by the deadline and infringement proceedings will be opened, what will be the penalty for the Republic of Estonia and the Estonian taxpayer? How much should this amount be, and what might it entail? You should be very familiar with this, because you know these infringement procedures quite well thanks to the directives of the Council of Europe. Of course, we must not discriminate against a family member of a person who is a national of a Member State of the European Union. Perhaps, then, in addition to the first question, you will answer the second question, which is a family in European terms and who is a member of the family.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U349	Thank you. I really can't quote from my head or tell you how and how big the fines are going to come. This procedure is known. I can also honestly say that I, as Minister, have not yet passed this procedure. But as regards whether or not Estonia joins or does not join any directives, I have always supported that it is better to think seriously about whether all things need to be taken over and adapted to Estonian law before accession. So many of the family members that, as the law states, the family's descending and ascending relatives and dependent relatives are. This is the principle that is also enshrined in the family law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U350	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U351	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. The Equal Treatment Act is an interesting law. It is designed to transpose different directives. We have taken over 2000/43 and 2000/78 here, which are two of the most important, and now there will be this 2014/54. I have nothing against the transposition of directives, but the situation gets weird when these directives are put together in a single law. This creates a situation where, for example, a disabled person with a nationality of a Member State of the European Union must not be discriminated against in health care. In the case of our Estonian citizen, who is a disabled person, discrimination in health care is not prohibited in view of the scope of this law. The parliamentarians from the five groups submitted a draft to change this situation, and we also know that the government has allegedly taken steps to amend it. Unfortunately, the E.I.S. doesn't show it. Is it up in the E.I.S. government or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U352	Thank you, good questioner! Tomorrow, at the meeting of the Government, this is about giving an opinion on the draft law on equal treatment initiated by members of the Riigikogu. And as Minister for Social Protection, who also upholds this law on equal treatment, I have given my own supporting position that it should come to this Parliament and that we could then deal with it together. Now there is a separate question as to whether we are waiting for the government to come to the same draft, perhaps with a little more precise and broader law, for example, through amendments, or we will come to a separate law. In this sense, work is under way, and some of the questions are precisely about how widely this issue is addressed and the real implementation side must also be ensured. We just don't have the point of adopting declarative laws. But it's kind of an exciting subject. This is definitely your experience, especially with regard to people with special needs, much wider. The issue of discrimination may seem to some people to be the subject of such half-witness or jokes, but it is not really. And for the sake of clarity: I also admitted here earlier in my answers that this situation on the part of the European Union is not very simple in terms of legal clarity either. Indeed, you have mentioned two of the most important directives, namely 2000/43 and 2000/78, and now it is also 2014/54 when I am dropping these figures here. In summary, the idea is still to regulate all kinds of discrimination so that people have rights and precise regulation to turn to for help, and also to ensure that there is no discrimination. So I also take a very positive view of the draft that you have initiated. I think we can really work together here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U353	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U354	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I'm going back to the directives. If we have voluntarily committed ourselves to a directive that is subject to infringement proceedings, will we be able to do so and, if so, how should this procedure look like a disengagement from a directive that currently takes precedence over the Estonian Parliament? That's the first question. I'm gonna get a second question in here right now. You can ask as many questions as you want in a minute. As far as I know, a very large number of directives that take precedence over Estonian laws have been adopted by a government in which a national conservative party has also been represented. What if, among other things, you give a definition of 'conservatism'?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U355	I didn't expect anything else from that question. I'll tell you what constructive national conservatism is. Indeed, conservativeness means, firstly, assessing freedoms and, secondly, that these freedoms also involve responsibility. National, positive, constructive conservatism is certainly not represented by the EKRE, but represented, for example, by a party such as the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U356	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Mart Nutt and he can also ask questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U357	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft law was discussed by the Constitutional Commission on Tuesday 22 March including. A number of guests had been invited to the discussion of this draft, first of all, the Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, but also the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, Adviser to the Department of Equality Policy at the Ministry of Social Affairs, Helena Pall, and Legal Adviser to the Legal and Human Resources Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kärt Põder. During the discussion of this draft, the Minister for Social Protection made a thorough presentation, presenting to the Commission mainly the same issues that were raised today in the plenary session of the Riigikogu. In addition, the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment presented his vision on the draft and its needs. I am not going to quote him further, because these aspects were already highlighted to a significant extent in the speech of the Minister for Social Protection. However, perhaps the most important thing in this case is that, as a major change in the draft, the members of the family of citizens of the Member States of the European Union receive the same protection as Estonian citizens, regardless of their nationality. So this draft specifically concerns the issue of family members and the question of family members who are not citizens of the European Union, as the issue of citizens of the European Union has been resolved in principle. Members of the Commission also took an additional interest in a number of issues. These were quite specific issues. For example, there was an interest in the opposite of the Italian driver's example. What is the example of an Italian driver? If the Estonian driver has run into problems in Italy, does the directive protect the Estonian driver? Yes, it does, because it is a citizen of the European Union, and if Italy has ratified this directive, it will extend to all Estonian citizens. However, the counter-question is, in this case, about the Italian driver, how the case will be resolved if, for example, the Italian driver is discriminated against in Estonia because of his nationality or some other reason. The Commissioner replied that she now needs to turn to a diplomatic mission, where the workload is quite high, depending on the country. So when the directive comes into force, Estonia is quite advanced and then it will probably be settled at national level. The question was raised about what was once in the hall, why Estonia has dealt with it so quickly. First of all, the answer is so much that Estonia has no reason to stall it. On the other hand, which came out of the answers, Estonia is in the position of a donor country and it is generally easier for donor countries to ratify this directive than for host countries. In fact, it brings responsibilities to countries, and in those countries where there are many people who have come from other countries, the burden of the obligation is clearly greater than in those countries where people have mostly gone out and where so many people have not come in. It is important that this directive moves towards resolving the issue in the country where the company is registered and not so much in the country where the particular case takes place. The following were discussed: First of all, what does the term 'family member of a citizen of a Member State of the European Union' mean in this case? In this respect, the Gender Equality Commissioner replied that, according to the European Union citizen's law, the concept of family member includes those who are not citizens of the European Union or of Estonia, in this case people who are nationals of another country and not of a Member State of the European Union. On the issue of nationality, the question was that, when it comes to a person who is a national of a Member State of the European Union, we are also talking about a citizen of the European Union. The answer, which is actually the result of the legislation already adopted, rather than the present draft, is that yes, that is the case: every citizen of a Member State of the European Union is also a citizen of the European Union. However, there cannot be such a situation that some citizens of the European Union are not nationals of any Member State. So today, the citizenship of the European Union is structured in such a way that a national of a Member State is a citizen of the European Union and a citizen of the European Union must be a national of at least one Member State. I think I have already highlighted important aspects here, in very few details I would not like to go in this case. As far as discrimination is concerned, as has been said here, whether, for example, discrimination against a citizen of the European Union would be allowed if we did not adopt this law. No, it's not allowed. As also indicated, § 12 of the Constitution prohibits discrimination on all grounds in principle. Is it necessary, then, to repeat or clarify this provision in the law? I myself asked the question at the committee meeting that, in itself, if it is covered, would it be necessary to introduce it into the law. I received the answer, which basically satisfies me, that it has been introduced to clarify the tasks that the institution, which in this case is dealing with, is able to turn to, and to find out more easily what people's rights are. One Member of the Commission also proposed not to stop reading the first reading because it is an unnecessary draft. So the question was not that the bill would be bad in any way, but that it does not add anything to Estonian law, as its problem is already adequately covered by other laws. However, the question is that this law is needed to transpose the directive. So whether you like it or not, in this case, the Commission maintained that this draft law should be adopted as a law. Procedural decisions were also taken. First, to put this draft on the plenary agenda, including by 6 April (this decision was adopted by consensus). The second decision, adopted by consensus, was to appoint Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. There was no consensus on the two decisions: the proposal to close the first reading (by 8 members of the Commission, with 2 votes against and no abstentions) and the fourth proposal to set 10 working days for the amendments, i.e. 20 April 2016 at 5.15 p.m. The last one I was wrong, it was also decided by consensus. So one decision went to the vote (ratio remained 8: 2) and the other decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U358	Questions for the waitress. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U359	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Probably, I understand that this term was not discussed in the committee session, but if it was raised in today's debate, would you be so nice as a specialist in this area and say what this national conservatism really is?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U360	Thank you. The Minister was right to answer that question; unfortunately, I do not, because as rapporteur for the Commission, I am in principle entitled to pass on the debate that took place in the Commission's sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U361	Mart Nut's answer was very correct. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, an excellent answer to the preceding question! But I wanted to express my pleasure at the fact that our debates here are very educational. After all, we got a pretty good definition from the previous speaker, i.e. the chairman of the IRL, which is national conservatism. This is an undisputed surrender of the sovereignty of the Estonian Parliament and the national sovereignty of Estonia to the European Commission and to the Commissioner in this field. It's totally exhaustive, okay. But the question he left to answer is: how can we give up the directive if we make such a wish in this House?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U363	Thank you. The directive can be abandoned very easily by denouncing the Treaty on the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U364	Oudekki Loone, the story is that § 98 of the Home and Working Procedures Act allows two questions to be put to two rapporteurs. These two options have been taken advantage of. Is there a procedural question for me? No, I'm not, I'm fine, thank you. Thank you, Mart Nutt! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U365	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is a very bad one. Unfortunately, a member of the cabinet of one of the government coalitions, who by chance is also chairman of a 'national conservative party', did not hear what this definition is exactly. The words that first went through were that national conservatism requires appreciation for freedom. I totally agree! However, unfortunately, we do not have the freedom to vote down this bill, because otherwise we will be faced with infringement proceedings and we will be criminals in the eyes of the European Commission. The question, of course, is that whose freedom is appreciated by the national conservate. This should certainly be considered by the chairman of one of the parties. That's another thing. This draft is very bad because, again, some kind of directive or some kind of regulation takes precedence over the laws of our Republic of Estonia. Perhaps we have a duty to adopt some kind of directive and put in place what we can do here with any citizen of the European Union or what we cannot do, and that is already essentially the wrong direction. This is completely unacceptable for us, because I would say that the opposition party, who also calls itself national conservationists, appreciates Estonia's freedom and sovereignty to decide its own laws as we ourselves want to do best and what is the right way for us instead of following the directives of the European Commission in order not to get a fine. As this is once again a federalist directive and one small step in one particular direction, which unfortunately has been run by our beautiful country for the last 12 years, we will contribute to rejecting this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U366	On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U367	Ladies and gentlemen, We are dealing here with the incorporation of the directive into the Estonian legal space, which should further protect the free movement of labour, which is indeed one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. If we believe that we basically support being in this Union, then we should certainly support workers' rights. But that's where the question arises. Discrimination, which we are talking about here, and which is also covered by the draft explanatory memorandum, is not arbitrary discrimination. They talk about very specific rights, about people's rights as workers. The rights of a person as an employee, the rights of an employee in the Estonian legal area are stated in the Employment Contracts Act. On this point, I have a legitimate question as to why we have placed a specific worker's right outside the law. I am afraid that this is a sneaking attempt to overload the office of the Commissioner for Equality and to assign him tasks that he cannot cope with in the current circumstances. It is therefore very difficult to support the incorporation of the directive in this form, as it seems to be the objective of its presentation to be hypocritically to raise the Commissioner, who has so far dealt with the forms of discrimination arising from the inalienable characteristics of a person's status, to become suddenly an institution fighting for worker's rights. In fact, we already have these institutions. Therefore, if this directive were to be incorporated into labour legislation, it would certainly be very welcome. In this case, the performer's motives remain a little suspicious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U368	I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of the draft 189 and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has therefore proposed to reject this draft at first reading. We shall vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject 189 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. For 6 members of the Riigikogu, against 39, with 7 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The first reading of Bill 189 has been completed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 20 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U369	The first reading of the draft Act 191 amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The initiator's waitress is Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U370	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! Since ancient times, making counterfeit money has been one of the most terrible crimes that has received a serious reaction from the monarchs and all public authorities. And there is no exception for the European Union. No European country can allow its citizens to be deceived and deceived by counterfeit currency. Consequently, common rules must be agreed to ensure that counterfeit currency is not so easy and, if counterfeit currency is in circulation, the respective credit institutions would be obliged to collect and withdraw the money in order to prevent people from being deceived. Fortunately, the counterfeiting of euros in itself, the preparation of its activities, is not a serious crime in Estonia. Three criminal cases were opened in 2014. The purpose of this law is to transpose the European Union's requirements, where additional provisions have been agreed to prevent counterfeit currency being made. The first amendment is that, in addition to illegal counterfeiting, it is also punishable by a legal instrument for counterfeiting. What does that mean now? It seems like such a very scholastic difference. This means that there would be a printing house where money would be printed in a non-official form of issuance: equipment is legal; money would be made as if it were legal, but there would be no authorisation to release it in itself. There are no such printing houses in Estonia, and it is more in the interests of protecting the people of Estonia than of protecting the consumers of money, so that we do not have such large printing houses. Secondly, this rule is put in place: credit institutions also have a clear responsibility to take the necessary measures. And if they do not apply them, these officials themselves are responsible for removing euro banknotes and euro coins that are counterfeit. In addition, credit institutions shall be penalised for not checking the authenticity and fitness of euro banknotes and euro coins, for such negligence in the performance of their tasks. In order to ensure that public research institutions have adequate tools to forge and plan such serious crimes against'money', they are given the right to carry out surveillance activities in the case of crimes relating to the preparation of counterfeiting for counterfeit currency. Globally, the euro situation is such that 838000 counterfeit euro banknotes were withdrawn from circulation in 2014 around the world, and in 2015 this figure increased by around 40,000 counterfeit euro banknotes. In Estonia, 400 counterfeit euro banknotes in the order of size were discovered in 2014 and 2015. So it is a request to discuss this law, to transpose the requirements, to apply it to the common interest of European countries, so that counterfeiting money is not an easy activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U371	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U372	Good manager! Good minister! Looking at this bill, it seems to me that it is a very quick solution to the marginal problem, because on 23 May it must already be in force. Although this is a problem with a small scale of 400 counterfeit bills and 97 cents were discovered last year, i.e. 0.001% of all banknotes, you also want to give the opportunity to use surveillance to combat it. Does this seem "proportional" to you: the nullity of the problem and the possibility of tracking it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U373	The circulation of money can be compared to the circulation of blood. It is sufficient to give an injection with an unsterilised syringe and one small baccill of 0.001% to enter the bloodstream. This can cause great damage: it is a carnivorous bacterium or some very tragic case. The real question, of course, is that we, the people of Estonia, are "consumers" in relation to these crimes. We've got cash in our pockets, we're going abroad and we're getting cash that could be fake. What is positive is that there are no large groups in Estonia that are involved in counterfeiting money. However, as consumers, we take euro coins out of our pockets and go through them, and see where they come from all kinds of European countries, and it is very interesting to get to know European geography. The coins move very briskly, very fast. Coins aren't very rational to fake, there's no big profits, but paper money is different, of course. So the logic here is that the countries of Europe have agreed among themselves that we will provide these tools together in all countries in order to counter the threat where possible. In Estonia, if there are no real cases, the police will not use them. In large countries where this is more topical, there are also major criminal movements and societies. There's this much more serious thing. As I said, 800,000 bills have been taken away in the European context, but there is also latent crime and it is not hard to imagine that there is actually much more money in it. People don't even know it's fake money in their pockets. So it could be statistically likely to get into our wallet, and we can cheat as bona fide people. So that's the logic of consumer protection, isn't it? We want if we buy petrol in Germany or Italy, it would be the right petrol to keep the car from breaking down. Similarly, we want the money that is given to us to be the right money not to be counterfeit money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U374	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U375	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Some surprising information was that legal money presses also make euros that go under counterfeits. Are the 800000 bills that have been taken or found money made with these legal presses? Maybe it's a very specific question, but it was exciting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U376	I'm not gonna rule it out, I'm gonna be honest. This is serious and I have visited the Estonian Forensic Institute myself. It's still pretty crazy: you look over there and you look at it with a glass and you don't know the difference. In China, they even make holograms. And indeed, in the case of money-printers, securities or euros are ordered from factories that have no corresponding standards or ethical boundaries. These securities or bills of money are made as an order on the basis of industrial logic. In this case, it is not the case that this business exists in the European Union, but that merchants order counterfeit money from outside the European Union. It is very complicated because the factory that produces these funds is, to illustrate, indeed of a professional level: only high-tech expertise can make a distinction there. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U377	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U378	Good manager! Good minister! The second question concerns Estonian. In the current Penal Code, the euro coin is written in two words and now you propose to write it in one word. Has the Estonian language developed so quickly in this 15 year period or did the editor of the language simply not share the punch in the previous version?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U379	In fact, I think both claims are partly correct. The demand for language management has increased and the language standard has also developed to protect the pure Estonian language. And I don't think the word 'euro coin' is hard to say either in the ordinary language.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U380	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Mark Soosaare, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U381	Good evening, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft on Monday 21 March. The debate was in a relatively calm and non-sexy mood because it seemed that there were no counterfeits or counterfeits among us. The bill was presented by Chancellor Norman Aas of the Ministry of Justice. I will add a few more details that the Minister did not mention in his presentation. Indeed, if a financial penalty could still be imposed to deal with counterfeit money, now that we are transposing the directive, two years of imprisonment can also be imposed. The question also arose as to why two fine rates were mentioned in one section of the draft, both in terms of financial penalties and in terms of unit of fines. The answer was that the fine rate would be set at EUR for the legal person and EUR for the natural person. It was decided to send the draft to the first reading. There were seven people in favour of first reading, two of us abstained. It was proposed that the deadline for amendments be 48 hours, i.e. 8 April evening. It was asked why so soon, but it would be embarrassing if Estonia were among the last to transpose this directive and was late. The precept of the Council of Europe states that by 23 May, if I am not mistaken, all the Member States of the European Union have adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U382	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Is there a desire to open negotiations between the political groups? Yes, it is. Peter Ernits, the Central Party faction, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U383	Good President and colleagues who are still in the Chamber! Clearly, counterfeit money cannot be accepted. At the same time, I would stress that once again this is a marginal or extremely marginal problem and a quick solution to it, because once again the law must be in force as early as 23 May. And to illustrate this marginality, some facts: the same 400 counterfeit bills and 97 cents last year, when the tendency is while falling in a year earlier, 2014 discovered 481 counterfeit bills and 128 cents. Another thing, of the thousands of policemen and 200 prosecutors in Estonia, only a few of them deal with this type of crime. And another moment, the use of cash in settlement has fallen in Estonia: in 2001 62% of people used cash, then last year only 10%. So, to sum up, this is a very marginal problem, although the Euro Directive, which needs to be implemented again quickly. Next, I come to the other side of this bill. The intention is to expand this toolbox, as the Minister said here. And that tool is to add another way of using surveillance. That means we're gonna shoot the sparrow with the cannon, and we're gonna be happy to open up a way to find another way to track people in secret, so-called pursuits. This is the point that the Group of the Centre Party cannot agree to the extension of the tracking directory, even though we are, of course, opposed to counterfeiting of cash and bank cards, just as obviously all other groups do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-06_U384	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 191. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 191 amendments, including 8 April at 16 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow morning! Closure of the sitting at 19.12.
