ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! It's good to see you all for a long time! We will begin the Thursday session of the 11th working week of the 4th plenary session. Now you have the opportunity to hand over drafts and inquiries. I'm asking for Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U2	Mr President! Good morning, everyone again! It is my honour, on behalf of the Free Party Group, to hand over the draft law amending the Law of the Government of the Republic. I do not take the credit for this because the draft and its relatively extensive explanatory memorandum and annexes have been prepared by Jüri Adams and our Group's advisor Sergei Metlev. So that's what the contents are. While for many senior civil servants there are certain minimum standards or requirements laid down in the Act, for the members of the Government of the Republic, this part is not entirely present. Our proposal is to include such a provision that the Minister must be credible, without the penalties imposed for the crime in force and fully operational a citizen of the Republic of Estonia who is free to speak the Estonian language. In our view, the President of the Republic should also be given a slightly more active role if the Minister is to be approved or not confirmed. The reason for the draft is undoubtedly the short-term career of a young man as Minister of Rural Affairs. How did it come to be that, under pressure from the press and the public, the facts became clear and the Minister's career remained short-term? Obviously, there are many circumstances here, but one of them is that the Prime Minister is probably not quite free to appoint ministers; he is dependent on other political parties and political lines. It shouldn't be like that. One particular major issue is constitutionality, but we believe that according to the executive edition of the Constitution, the President may have a slightly more active role to play here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U3	Thank you. There are no further requests to speak. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Now the messages. On today's third item, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a Special Committee against Corruption, 348th reading, the Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Ken-Marti Vaher, will make a presentation by the leading committee. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 88 members of the Riigikogu, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U4	Let's start the trial. We will continue to discuss the Bill 302 of the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and we will proceed with the revision of the amendments. We remained in the process after the vote on Amendment 139. The next amendment is Amendment 140, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The Steering Committee has proposed that this be partially taken into account. The 141st amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. 142. the amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U5	Thank you, Mr President. We ask that Amendment 142 be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U6	Let us put this amendment to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 142, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 51 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 32 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was supported. 143th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the commission considers that this must be taken into account in substance. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U7	Thank you, good manager. Please put to the vote Amendment 143.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U8	I shall put this amendment to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 143 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has been suggested by the Steering Committee to be taken into account in substance. Please take a stand and vote. There were 7 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this amendment and 77 against, with one abstention. The amendment was not supported. The 144th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to disregard it. 145th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee is to take the substance into account. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U9	Thank you, good manager. We would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 145.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U10	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 145th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee is to take the substance into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 5 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 71 against, with one abstention. The amendment was not supported. 146th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to disregard it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U11	Thank you. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U12	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 146th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee is to disregard the proposal. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 54 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. 147th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U13	Thank you. Let us also ask for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U14	Let us put this amendment to the vote. I shall put to the vote the 147th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 53 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 148th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U15	Thank you. We are also asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U16	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 148th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 9 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 52 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. 149th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the position of the commission is to disregard it. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U17	Thank you, Mr President. We ask for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U18	We will vote on this proposal. I will put to the vote the 149th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 49 against, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The 150th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U19	Thank you. Let's vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U20	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 150th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 53 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 151st amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U21	Thank you, Mr President. We ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U22	We will vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the 151st amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 31 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 52 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 152nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U24	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 152nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and 54 were against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 153rd amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 154th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U25	Thank you, good manager. We ask for the 154th amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U26	We will vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the 154th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and 26 were against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The 155th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. 156th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U27	Thank you, good manager. We ask for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U28	Let us vote on this amendment, but before you do, Mr Herkel, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U29	I had the same suggestion. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U30	Then we go to the preparation of the vote. I shall put to the vote the 156th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 10 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and 78 were against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 157th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U31	Thank you, Mr President. This is the last proposal that I am now asking for a vote on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U32	Thank you. This is also the last proposal received for the second reading on this draft. We will go to the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the 157th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and 54 were against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have examined the amendments. The Governing Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of Bill 302. Second reading is complete. [[Weak applause.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U33	The next item is the first reading of Draft Act 318 on the Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu, good morning! I am pleased to introduce you to the draft Act 318 amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services. This is, of course, a very good draft. The main changes can be summarised in three points. The first of these is that, according to the bill, in the future, we can automatically assign all newborn children in Estonia to the list of the mother's family doctor. The amendment is necessary in order to ensure that newborns are better and more comfortable to access the list of family doctors and that all children have equal health protection. The second point is the extension of the rights of medical students working in the health care system, the so-called assistant doctors. In particular, we want the draft to give emergency doctors the right to access patients' data in the health information system in order to facilitate their work. Thirdly, some technical regulatory points concerning the exchange of information between GMPs and the Health Board will be clarified. Now a little closer to the newborns. According to the current regulation, a parent has to write a statement to get a family doctor for a newborn child. As a result, unfortunately, we are in a situation where the family doctor is unable to monitor children whose parents have not made an application to register the child on the list on time. Monitoring the health of newborns and young children and early detection and prevention of problems are particularly important. Healthcare professionals, of course, have an important role to play in advising parents about newborn care and possible health risks. At present, the greatest obstacle to the intervention of the healthcare system is the lack of information movement, as there are cases where information does not reach a newborn child to a family doctor. As of October 2016, there are around 700 children under three years of age in Estonia who have not been listed as family doctors for various reasons. In many cases, parents have forgotten to apply to a family doctor or have wanted to arrange for their child's health care in other ways, such as regular visits to a pediatrician. The health department has contacted the parents and explained the need to be on the list of family doctors. There are also families that do not live permanently in Estonia, and therefore parents have not registered their children on the list of family doctors. The purpose of the amendment is to achieve a situation that ensures that all newborns are automatically registered on the list of family doctors and that the family doctor receives information about the newborn child immediately. This is necessary to enable the family doctor to monitor all children in accordance with the preventive health checks scheme for children aged 0 to 18 years. The plan has been introduced as an annex to the work manual of the family doctor and we are now updating its content to address the issue of home visits for newborns. It is clear that it is one thing to list a family doctor, and another is real monitoring of young children. There are also cases where the mother lacks a family doctor. According to the bill, the child is automatically assigned to the list of the mother's family doctor, but if the mother does not have a family doctor, the hospital's social worker deals with such cases, including, where appropriate, the social worker of the municipality of residence. The mother will be assisted in choosing the family doctor and filling out the necessary documents. The health care provider shall satisfy himself/herself, when he/she prescribes both the mother and the newborn from the hospital, that the parent has written his/her application to register the child on the list of family doctors, shall forward the application to the relevant family doctor and shall add a copy of the e-mail to the recipient of the Health Board, who shall subsequently be able to check whether the family doctor has accepted the application. At an earlier stage in the procedure for this draft, including in the Committee on Social Affairs, there is one question that I am going to answer right here. The question is whether family doctors will not refuse to list newborns, especially those with large lists. Since it is important that they do not refuse to implement the amendment, the provisions of Regulation No 47 of the Minister of Social Affairs entitled "Basics and procedures for establishing, amending and comparing the list of family doctors and the number of lists of family doctors" are supplemented accordingly. The Regulation further provides that a family doctor may not refuse to register a child on the list if the Health Board has designated a child on the list for child protection reasons. The law already allows this. The cost of IT developments of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund is related to the amendment, so that data can move and such automatic assignment can be made. The costs are approximately EUR 17000 and will be borne from the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The second amendment allows medical students to access the health information system. Under current law, medical students, or so-called assistant doctors, cannot access the health information system with their personal identification, produce documents for it, or get to know the patient's medical history, even though their work in health care institutions naturally requires it. The aim of the amendment is to enable medical students who work in hospitals and at family doctors, i.e. who take part in the provision of health care services, to have access to the health information system. It provides a legal basis for "auxiliary doctors" to use the health data contained in the health information system. Entrance to the health information system under its own name increases the personal responsibility of students, as each operation remains a controlled digital track. The amendment also simplifies the work of a doctor, as it allows a medical student who assists him to see the essential health information of the patient, to treat the patient more thoroughly and to prepare the necessary documentation for the doctor. The prepared documents will be reviewed and approved by the supervising doctor, who will in any case bear the ultimate responsibility for the entire treatment process, and we will of course not change that. Following the entry into force of the Bill, the Health Board will register the students working in the license register with a code and this will give them access to the Health Information System. From the patient's point of view, the change will speed up access to care and improve the quality of health care, as access to health data in the health information system will enable students to prepare more and better patient-related material for the supervising doctor. The change affects medical students, Health Board, health care providers and other people. There are no significant costs for the Health Board and this is a good change. The third amendment is indeed of a more technical nature, regarding the exchange of information between the family doctor and the Health Board. Maybe that's not what I'm talking about right now. If there are any questions, we can also look at this issue in greater depth. Finally, the draft is planned to enter into force in general terms. I thank you and ask for support for this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U35	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U36	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I understand that when a child is born, she will automatically be registered on the mother's family doctor list. My question is how a family doctor learns that a new patient has been automatically registered on his list.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U37	The question, then, is how do we exchange information between family doctors and the Health Board? In the longer term, this means that the information system used by family doctors should accompany this update and automatically inform the family doctor that new people have been added to his list. This is actually necessary in the wider context. To be honest, in the second decade of the 21st century, we continue to make long written statements to join the list of family doctors, that it is generally not possible to do so digitally, not only for children but for all patients, it is not quite reasonable either. We are going to develop this system more widely so that it will go more automatically in the future and the family doctor will also be informed by the information system immediately. So far, this type has been used in cases where the Health Board has designated people, not just children, to some list, to use an old e-mail. I do not know exactly how quickly family doctors can make changes to their information system, but in any case it will be ensured that they are informed when small patients are added to their list.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U38	Thanks to the waitress! No more questions for you. I now ask for a presentation by the commission of the Chair, Ms Kersna, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed this draft on Tuesday, 6 December. The draft had come to introduce us to the Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski, Head of Health Network of the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Heli Paliste, Legal Advisers of the Legal and Personnel Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Kersti Berendsen-Koržets and Lily Mals, and Head of the Family Medicine Department of the Health Board Pille Saar. The Minister and the officials presented the draft to us very thoroughly, and we discussed similar issues which I think the Minister has answered exhaustively here. The Commission proposed that the draft be put on the agenda of the plenary session on 14 December now shifted to 15 December and that decision was consensual. The Commission also proposes that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, which means that amendments should have been received by 4 p.m. on 30 December. Liina Kersna was appointed rapporteur for the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U40	Thanks to the waitress! Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There doesn't seem to be a negotiation request. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 318. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling 318 amendments to the draft is set at 4 p.m. on 30 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U41	Today's third item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a Special Committee against Corruption, submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that every member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask an oral question during the debate on this item. I would like to ask Ken-Marti Vaheri, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present the Chair to the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U42	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! By the deadline for tabling amendments to this draft, by 8 December, two groups from the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Conservative People's Party of Estonia submitted their proposals. The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft on 12 December. The amendments, which are listed in three, were examined. The text of the draft was also accompanied by linguistic and technical clarifications. The procedural decisions of the lead committee are simple: to put the draft on the agenda of 14 December now it has passed on to the next day and to hold a final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U43	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests. We will go to the examination of the amendments. Three amendments have been tabled to the draft. Let's go through them together. The first amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to take account of the substance. The third amendment is presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account. We have examined the amendments. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote of 348. We're going to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu on "Constitution of a Special Committee against Corruption" 348. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft 348 has been adopted as a decision. The third item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U44	We are going to the fourth item on the agenda, namely the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (transposition of the freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of crime) 308. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for the final vote on the draft 308, and we are going to the vote on it. Since the draft law requires a majority of the Riigikogu membership to be adopted, a verification of the presence must also be carried out. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law 308 on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. The debate on the fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U45	Today's fifth item is the third reading of Bill 299 of the Law on Legal Assistance and the Amendment of Other Laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? I see it is. On behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U46	Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft cannot be supported. One of the major reasons why it cannot be supported is procedural filth. And it is very embarrassing that the board of the Riigikogu is also drawn into this story, who should be above different political views and understand which rules we have adopted and whether we are following them or not. On this draft, we have not complied with any procedural rules. Strangely, every Monday, the new chairman of the Commission has started our committee meeting by updating the agenda, because by the end of last week it has not been possible to understand what has come to be done there. More interestingly, it seems that the chairman of the committee does not have any mandates from his group either, because instead of the agreements that have been reached in the committee, the next morning suddenly the clean leaves are back on the table, because it turns out that the group has broken apart on some issues. Can this be the case with the coalition, the political party of the Prime Minister? I can't. The party of the Prime Minister must bear the responsibility and act to ensure that the legal order is in place in Estonia and, above all, in the Riigikogu. What is even more strange is that suddenly the third reading needs to be carried out immediately. This is not directly related to the state budget. Then why do you have to rush it? The Minister of Justice has confirmed on several occasions that the need to extend the state's legal aid to more people was already decided by the previous composition. However, the political decision that really needed substantive analysis and debate is the same language issue. It has been our custom and good practice that we will not change the laws that work in practice. Above all, we must encourage a practice in which the laws do not contain details, by law, all written out in advance. We have become too bureaucratic and too detailed for some laws. We need to encourage good practice to work without law-makers. But this time we want to prove again that the more paper, the more paragraphs, the better. It's not like that. We are not the country of excessive control for which the papers make us. This Russian thing, as I said yesterday, which so many of the participants in the Forum last night focused on for a very long time, unfortunately, is hiding. Why aren't the things that they really want to show their electorate called the right names? This is the humble conduct of the small nation and we must overcome it. We must not continue to do this, but, on the contrary, we should be proud of our country, our language, our people. But by adopting this law, we are ashamed of them. I hope you will not encourage such conscious action. What will be the more distant outcome? Next year, we will have an election, and we will be faced with an avalanche of hate speech that it can bring on one side or the other. Is this the responsible behaviour of the legislator? I don't think so. I also have concerns about another coalition party that has so far tried to do Estonian business. I fear that this decision will reduce your possible success in the elections and that your voters, your basic voters, people who think nationally, will be greatly disappointed. It's hard to deal with this mess. I invite all of you not to submit to an incompetent dictatorship! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U47	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Valdo Randpere Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U48	Can I have three more minutes just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U49	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U50	The subject is interesting. Yesterday, when we discussed this draft here at second reading, a lot of things were said, some of which I will certainly repeat today. I repeat already because today, however, I see some of the individual members of the IRL Group in this Chamber. Yesterday they were not visible at all, yet this bill is largely the work of the IRL. First of all, I have reproached on the formal side of this bill, how it turned out. It was quite a bit about how the Commission first came up with a proposal, which was said to have been so-called "twelve" by Karilaid Reinsalu. This proposal was also supported by the Centre Party in the Commission. Later, the Group of the Centre Party pulled it apart, wanted a better agreement, and then Reinsalu came up with a better agreement that Russian would be converted into a state language parallel to the Estonian language in court proceedings. However, the same Urmas Reinsalu bill for years has not, for the first time in this Chamber, spoken in response to the rejection of this bill, using the following argument. I quote Urmas Reinsalu's speech in this very hall: " § 6 of the Constitution states that the official language of Estonia is Estonian. If the law on legal aid is amended in such a way as to allow the application for legal aid to be made in Russian, the constitutional requirement of the state language as the language of the case will be called into question. " Clearly, Urmas Reinsalu, as Minister of Justice in the new coalition, has undergone a change of mind, and before us is the third reading of the bill that allows the Russian language to be used as the language of the application for state legal aid. On the formal side, so many more reproaches that we have an agreement, good practice not to put drafts to second and third readings in the same week. With this bill, we're still doing it. On Monday, there was a sudden panic on the formal side when the Commission wanted to postpone the deadline for the submission of the materials. Basically, they want to sell you a pig in a bag. Then there was here on the remote, sitting on the spot where Taavi is currently sitting in Kõiva, President of the Riigikogu Eiki Nestor, who announced that action was urgently needed because the draft was related to the state budget. Basically, Eiki lied because, in fact, this bill has nothing to do with the state budget and, in that sense, there is no speed today either. The next formal feature of this draft was that he finally came from the committee from the side of the hall at the party table. Reinsalu laid the table, offered beer, Moscow bread and some wine, and in the meantime most of the committee found that there was a cool bill, so let him go to the hall. It's a first-time experience for me. Although I don't drink myself, I imagine it's difficult for a lot of people to be sober-headed for such a bill. But it is not the only such a bill. I talked a little bit wider yesterday about us being in some zone called post-truth politics in the world. We are now in it, too, and largely because, at the request of the IRL, the new coalition no longer mentions things by their proper names, but has tried to find them some epithetes or aliases. We are not talking about car tax because it was ruled out by the IRL in its election program. We are not talking about increasing labour costs, we are talking about tax cuts, we are talking about some kind of tax exemption. We are not talking about progressive income tax, which the middle party and social democrats are talking about, but in the IRL vocabulary, it is a regressive tax exemption. Very exciting, very exciting expression in itself! For me, however, there was a remarkable meeting that took place a few weeks ago. I met a beautiful girl, and we started talking. We talked in Estonian for quite a while and then he suddenly asked about something to listen to how it was in Estonian. I thought he wasn't really Estonian. I asked him what his native language was. He said Russian. It turned out that the girl was from Kohtla-Järve, spoke Estonian better than the current Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee and many of us here. He spoke good Estonian in every way. The only thing he said to me was that, for God's sake, why they want to do such stupidity in order to abolish the requirement of the Estonian language in education. Asked why you brought in this Russian opportunity, you've gone crazy. The girl herself comes from a Russian family, speaks pure Russian, but also speaks pure Estonian, studies at a university and feels like a perfectly normal, successful person here. And I think that is the main point of this whole thing today: we must under no circumstances take away the motivation to learn Estonian from Russian-speaking young people. This is their only and best chance to be truly successful in Estonia. I've never been in a foreign society myself, Sweden. I didn't know a word of Swedish, but it was clear to me from day one that if I wanted to make it there, I would have to learn that language, not sit in the corner and insist that pagans do business here in Sweden in Estonian. But the signal we are issuing today is that it is not really necessary to learn Estonian. As my colleague Mart Helme said yesterday: by cutting a slice of sausage, we give up the position of the Estonian language. I don't think that's a very good idea. In order to avoid such a creeping russification, as a representative of the Reform Party, I call on you not to support this draft at the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U51	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U52	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Yeah, there was a lot of talk last night, but when my mom was asked how she managed to raise decent children, she said that still talking, talking, talking and talking. That's why we're talking more. Let's talk about open nationalism. The one who kicks off the Earthpaper today sees our esteemed President's interview, where the definition of what the Chairman of the IRL has called open nationalism comes from. It turns out, by the definition of open nationalism, everyone who says that he is an Estonian is an Estonian, which, because he maybe, I don't know, is not a human being is perhaps a parrot. Maybe there's a parrot who's been taught to say, "I'm an Estonian." And that's the Estonian because he says so. Mart Root has already ironed it and said that anyone who says he's a psychiatrist is a psychiatrist. I think it's pretty witty by Mart Root. Those things aren't that simple, friends! We all have culture, identity, customs, tradition, prejudice, if you like. And indeed prejudice, if you wish. This is part of our human identity. It cannot be ignored, it cannot be made clear by order or by any definition that everyone who has ever settled here is automatically Estonians. It's just not like that. I'm asking, by the way, a rhetorical question, and I'm trying to answer it. Who needs an Estonian state in the first place? Who needs an Estonian state? Does the European Union need an Estonian state? The very clear answer is that it is not. Does NATO need an Estonian state? The answer is very clear: it is not. Is Estonia needed in Russia? The answer is very clear: it is not. And if we go on with the exclusion method like this, then we will finally find out that there is only one group of people who need Estonia's country, these are Estonians. These are Estonians, and these are those who have put themselves in a boat with Estonians, even if they are not Estonians as a nation, but who really feel a deep inner emotional connection with this country and the indigenous people of this country. Let's not forget, there's only one nation that's lived on this land for thousands and thousands of years. This is the Estonian people. The others have come here, and the others have gone. Let's remember the Baltic Germans, they're gone. Let us remind the Estonian Swedes of these practically no longer exist. The earth can continue to bear the name of the people who once lived there. We know Livonia, but there are no Livonians. We Estonians need this country, and only we need this country, and only we do. But let's keep going. The drafters have argued and yesterday the Chairman of the IRL stated in the Forum that this draft would eliminate the division of society. On the contrary, it is the pouring of oil into the fire to deepen the split. Do you really think that Estonians who had to suffer 50 years of Chevo-chevos, because Vassilyev asked me to translate yesterday, will translate: what-what-what-now in their own country does not want things to go according to our laws, according to our constitution? Of course they do. And such attacks on all of us from the Most Holy, or our tongue, deepen the division. Friends from the Centre Party, you will deepen the division of society, you will create tension, you will insult the Estonians! More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U53	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U54	Oudekki Loone spoke about how the Constitution states that no one is discriminated against on the basis of this, the other or the third. No one is discriminated against. But we do not accept that, under no circumstances does our party accept that, step by step, Russian will be legalised as another national language. We do not accept this, and if today you push this bill through, of course, you push it through, you are far worse pushers than the Reform Party ever did with its coalition, then we will continue to fight it with all the means at our disposal. We will definitely continue this fight, and I think we have allies. I think that knowledge and understanding of our struggle are growing and expanding. And more. In politics, you always have to ask who benefits. In the case of the Centre Party, it is clear: it is the most basic sucking up in front of the Russian electra. This is the most basic suck-up in front of the Russian electra! You can say anything you want, but that's exactly what it is. Who's going to benefit? Why is it useful for the IRL, who basically tramples on national treasures and ideals and on its own political tradition? What good is that to them? The evil languages say that the devil lies in one detail: it is EUR 700000, which is designated as the money for the development of legal aid. Evil languages also say that an agreement has already been reached on the money to which it goes. Push over, but we'll see who it goes to. You can laugh, but that's the way it works. And, you know, it's so low, and it's so pathetic when the goods are sold for some really insignificant money. Of course they deny it, everyone denies everything. Moscow denies interfering with the American elections, Clinton denies having had economic relations with Moscow. Everyone denies politics whenever there's something unpleasant. I will tell you one very simple point: all things will be in the right place in the long term, and what may seem wrong today will prove to be true tomorrow, because a long development perspective has proved this. So laugh, iron, talk about open nationalism, but things are set in the right place in the long term, and the resulting conclusions can ultimately be very, very painful for some, regardless of the short-term benefits. We are, of course, opposed to this; we are, of course, opposed to this draft. We are already seeing a drawing scheme of how the withdrawal of Estonian language learning begins in upper secondary schools. Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the IRL Group, proposes to translate into Russian in the Tallinn City Council...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U55	Good waitress, your time is up. On behalf of the Central Party Group, Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U56	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened with amazement to the previous waitresses, who are probably not involved in this bill. This bill does not change the language of the trial in the Republic of Estonia. This bill also gives the right to apply for legal aid in a language other than Estonian. The application will then be translated into Estonian and the trial will continue in Estonian. This means that we will then have more people who will receive high-quality legal assistance. The draft law is based directly on Article 9 of our Constitution, which guarantees that all people who are on the territory of Estonia, whether Estonian citizens, foreign citizens or stateless persons, have fundamental rights, rights, freedoms and obligations of everyone equally. Whether they're Estonians or not, whether women or not, white or not, we're all equal here. Estonia is a free country because it guarantees rights. We are proud of our culture as long as it is a free culture, as long as it ensures that each of us has rights, even if it is different from us, even if it is weird when it is a redhead, when it speaks Russian, when it votes for the Centre Party, we all have rights. It is absolutely amazing how this debate has become some strange national speech today, breaking through an open door. You know, I love Estonian and Estonian culture very much. And I'm proud today. I am proud today that this bill shows that Estonian culture is strong enough, we do not have to begin to restrict the rights of others, the fundamental rights of others, in order to ensure that some people fear that they will not have enough sausage. It's a little sad. It is a bit sad that we have not talked about legal aid, that the draft under discussion actually guarantees that we have the rule of law everywhere. We have not talked about promoting the development of legal services. The promotion of rotation of law enforcement officials in the Ida-Viru region. The fact that there is a rule of law everywhere in Estonia is a high-quality justice. Indeed, this bill is also linked to the state budget. We are talking about the need for an additional EUR 700000 to improve the quality of legal aid in order to increase people's trust, the belief that Estonia is the rule of law, that we are actually free. The freedom of the Estonian state means not only that we will not be prescribed which laws we will adopt. It also means that every person is free, every individual is free, and every individual is protected from injustice, even if it comes from the institutions of his own country. This bill guarantees such freedom in the spirit of the Constitution to everyone, regardless of nationality, regardless of their mother tongue. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm proud today. I hope you are, too. The Centre Party will vote in favour of the draft being discussed becoming a law, and I call on you all to do so. This shows that Estonian culture is strong, prosperous, fair and free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U57	Thank you. Next on behalf of the IRL Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U58	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's so nice to be here for days at a time and talk the same thing. It is also a pleasure to receive so much attention as a group for several days in a row, which is sometimes not given over quite several weeks or months. Let's talk about the contents first. The previous speaker referred here to the Constitution. I also believe that the Constitution cannot be followed selectively. Once we have adopted this constitution ourselves, we have approved it and said that, according to the Constitution, everyone is really treated in a uniform and equal manner, regardless of their property or social status or anything else, it must be based on it. In this draft law, we are actually talking about extending the freedom to use the language in only two areas of procedure, in administrative and civil proceedings. We are taking these two areas of trial to the same level. For example, in criminal proceedings, the defendant, suspect or accused, as well as the victim, will naturally be able to perform, communicate in his own language, in the language he possesses, and the whole thing will be translated. Does the honourable opposition of the Riigikogu realize that today, the opposition has a majority of one opinion, really wants criminals who are tried in criminal proceedings to be significantly better protected in terms of their linguistic needs and their interests to be significantly better represented if they are other people who do not speak the Estonian language and who have to defend their rights in civil proceedings or administrative proceedings? There are enough and enough disputes where ordinary citizens must go to the administrative court, for example, in order to guarantee their rights, where they need the protection of the court when dealing with the authorities of the local government or public authorities, because they feel that they have been harmed. What else is important? This bill is not aimed at people who have the opportunity to guarantee themselves a high quality translation, a very professional representative. The draft is very clearly targeted at the low-insured, poor people who really need it and who, without state aid, are unable to defend their rights in court proceedings or litigation. In addition, the draft law also provides great support when regional legal aid centres are set up, where a person is able to apply for legal aid and where it is already made clear to him before legal proceedings whether he really has such rights that it is worth starting a dispute, or whether it is simply a illusion that he has certain rights. There is no need for man to waste his temporal or material resources in vain if the trial process is so-called unimaginable for him. Let us also talk about the figures on how many people are affected by this bill. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U59	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U60	Statistically, such requests for state legal aid are received by civil and administrative courts on average 600 per year and in languages other than Estonian, they are presented in approximately 100 languages. There is another important moment in the procedure of this bill. If you go back a little bit to history, I would remind you that in 2004, when the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee was a member of the Reform Party and Märt Rask also held the office of the President of the Supreme Court, a law was passed that documents submitted in all languages must be translated into Estonian. Fortunately, in 2005, this madness ended because it would have been a very pointless waste of public money and putting a huge administrative burden on the state. At the time, no one was concerned that there was a vicious Russification and the killing of Estonians and Estonian. Finally, one more thing needs to be resolved. Indeed, I support the thought of my partymate, Viktoria, that maybe you should put a polygraph in here: before a person goes to the remote, he's gonna clamp his fingers in, and then he's gonna turn out whether he's telling the truth in his speech or lying. Valdo, you were there for lunch! Then why did you come to the Riigikogu members and to the people of Estonia to declare a lie from this remote control? There were no bellies or Moscow bread at that dinner table! There was a duck leg. There was no beer! [[Laughter in the hall, applause.]] I would have liked to have eaten the bread, but you see, it wasn't. The Riigikogu's speaking board must not be told a lie! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U61	Thank you. Mr Randpere, speaking on the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U62	Since I completely lost my appetite at the cafeteria when I saw this bill, I may have been wrong about the menu details. But I saw a lot of alcohol there, a lot of happy faces, who might have taken both food and drink and adopted a bill between them, which is very hostile to the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U63	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft 299. Since the draft law requires a majority of the Riigikogu membership for adoption, a verification of the presence must be carried out. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on state legal aid initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 299. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the draft law and against 36. The draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act and other laws has been adopted as a law. The debate on the fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U64	Today's sixth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 259. We're going to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 259. Please take a stand and vote. 90 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending the Accounting Act has been adopted as a law. That concludes the debate on the sixth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U65	Today's seventh and last item on the agenda is the first reading of Riigikogu's decision to appoint members of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia, a member of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. Good Riigikogu, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask an oral question during the discussion on this item. I would like to ask the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Aadu Musta, for a presentation by the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great pleasure for me to present you with a draft prepared in a full consensus mood, where it was not possible to detect any differences between political parties. This is precisely the appointment of members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, a member of the Riigikogu. This draft had to be prepared in view of the fact that the mandate of Andres Anvelt, Enn Eesmaa and Kalle Muuli, members of the Supervisory Board of the member of the Riigikogu, expired before the deadline. The entire content of the draft is that instead of Andres Anvelt, a member of the National Broadcasting Council, Kalvi Tõud, will be appointed as a member of the Riigikogu, instead of Enn Eesmaa, Marika Tuus-Laul and Kalle Muul, instead of Viktoria Ladynskaja. Since this is a draft which, according to the National Broadcasting Act, falls within the competence of the Committee on Culture, no amendments will be tabled and the draft will be put to the vote at first reading. If you approve it, the draft will be adopted, if you do not approve it will not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U67	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U68	Thank you. Good waitress! Am I right to understand that this bill appoints members of the Riigikogu to the council rather than cleanses the councils of the members of the Riigikogu? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U69	According to law and good practice, as most members of the Riigikogu remember, each political group has its own representative on this council. If, then, there is some kind of self-cleaning, each fraction itself is the essence master of its place. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U70	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There doesn't seem to be a negotiation request. Due to § 117 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, no amendments to this draft could be tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 349. We're going to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Riigikogu's decision to appoint members of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia as a member of the Riigikogu 349. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 5 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Today's last item is on the agenda. The sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U71	Please, Santa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U72	Thank you. Hello, hello! [[Let's hear it.]] Hello, hello! Javier, you're in there now! Well, you see, a young man does, but that's the way it's supposed to be. I'm very happy to see you again for a while. I guess I've been trying to follow you a little bit. Exciting things you've been able to do in a year. I see Santa Claus brought you here yesterday at 2:00. You've been practicing all night, studying and reviewing your poems. Well, the end of the year is the kind of time when people still look back, see how it's gone and what it costs to remember what they've done in a year. Some times a person feels that there is nothing or nothing, but there was always something to be done. But let me remind you, it's very good that you chose the president six times. After all, that went very well. Latvians, I think they only lasted five times. So we did better than that. And the one thing I've noticed in a year is that you guys really want to be together. As Christmas approaches, people still feel a little together, let's not even go home for the night. We're here together to discuss these things. It's most gratifying. Look, sometimes it's said that night sessions are expensive, that they waste people's money, but I don't understand that idea. If a member of the Riigikogu is at work all the time, he does not drive his car, he does not need a car. If he's at work all the time, he doesn't need a hotel and he doesn't have home expenses. When he's at work all the time, he doesn't see a voter who spends a lot of money on all the time when he gets to meet him. If a member of the Riigikogu is working all the time, the savings will be huge. From history, we know one person like Ivan Orava's father, who had always done all the work for the year by January 6. That's how you're gonna do it at this rate. Then this cluster... Now, this cluster law is an interesting thing. Once the Reform Party liked to make cluster laws, now the Central Party likes it too. I'd advise you to take a bunch of vacations, then it'd be faster. We'll take a cluster break and there'll be 200 breaks inside. And when it's over, you could take more of them. The Riigikogu's cluster group could be. Give me a hand-to-hand signal for a cluster group! All right, Eiki would. It's just a pleasure. There would be a lot to tell you, of course, and you could give me some proverbs. But I think that since a good elf has brought a bag here because I have my own gifts in mind for each group, I can give them a little more specific talk to you and give everyone a few suggestions. I see people come to this hall and they feel fresh. The strength of the great period of life that you have begun, which will be remembered as one that could sometimes be more beautiful, but of course what is necessary! I see that being in the opposition is working very well. Kristen's got a lot of fun and laughter, sitting there with such a nice, happy face. But if I look here, you'll see... [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Oh, that's so good. Yet you can do this real work. I call here first a good Riigikogu board to give you gifts, of course, for a great performance. Javier, you can come! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I guess he doesn't have the guts to quit. When I used to get a new bike when I was little, I didn't get off it for the night. (Laughter in the hall, interjections.)
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U73	Sweet christmas man! We decided to make a bunch. [[They're hugs.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U74	It's beautiful, so it's a cluster board. [[Let's hear it.]] Now I understand why people need their thumbs and other fingers to reach together, but on the Christmas man... (Little tilin). All right, beautiful! No, please, it's necessary! Enn, be my guest, please! When the gift's here, give me a nice hand, let's try it. There's a bell on the Javier without a dinghy. [[Laughter.]] No, there is still one. Now, please, let's all do the sound test. (Will bells bells bells bells. applause.) Excellent!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U75	I think mine's in si-pohmel.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U76	Si-pohmel? I'll confess everything I have to, but it's supposed to be on Christmas Eve. Good people, now it's getting rough. I'm gonna get out of here first a gift packed in green. I'll open it. Ah, Free Party, here you go. Are you still in the hall? Ain comes to sigh. If there's anything that needs to be spoken out loud, he's the only one who can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U77	Hi! Are you asking for a verse?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U78	I can ask. Should I ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U79	Yeah, it could be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U80	Do you have a verse?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U81	It is. I would like to introduce this verse so that when I was here tonight, I forgot all the poems I had in my head. Against the morning, one appeared. Since it wasn't in my head, I just wrote it down with my own hand. It's Juhan Viiding's poem and it sounds like: He was afraid of every pure thought. that maybe he's a pious, and He asked in any case. where the human soul is located He was most afraid of peace of mind. He thought it wasn't human. which does not fit in the rails He thought it was adorable. or animal or natural or creepy When something deep pierced him He walled up his soul's rooms and shamed the gentle wise # Why don't they cheer # # Why don't they cheer up # Why don't you pack up for a simmani? She suddenly appeared in the holy form for from the moment holy he survived.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U82	Thank you. Oh, yeah! So the truth is, for a moment, we were able to follow these paths. But you see, here's a nice set. Here's a set of ideas. Other parties are sometimes so busy that they don't have time to come up with ideas. You have become known in history by raising the idea, and others will take it and grow it up nicely. It is immediately possible to develop ideas at three different levels and to share these ideas widely with others.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U83	Thank you, Santa! So we've been very useful. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U84	All right! Good luck, good luck! It's always good for a Christmas man to look at the ingenuity of his elves. Actually, I'm not giving you that package yet. [[Laughter.]] It's gonna take a while. All right, let's call the Reform Party. All right, here we go. You've had time and a peaceful life now. You usually perform together. Is there so many of you in Parliament? (Answer from the floor: very much.) Is the song different from last year's? [[Laughter.]] You're gonna try? This now gives a clear picture of the relationship between forces in Parliament. I think there must be 76 ambassadors in the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U85	Santa, can I come to the microphone?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U86	Come on, on the other side, I've got shit in my way. One, two, three, two, two, three...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U87	Silentium ad verbum, ad cantum! Hello, dear children! Today, when all the homes are shattered by Christmas expectations and the elves are already at the door, neither can we get over it or around it. Dear children! Today I'm going to read you a poem about how the forest folks are going to have a very different Christmas next year. [[In the background, the choir of the Reform Party sings.]] "The hope of Christmas in full swing, the beasts of the forest are full of anxiety, the great-little, all together, there is a lion and also a lice. The anxiety is on everyone who suffers from a tree, who suffers from a jewel, as an accountant, the seal is deluding with a numerical piece of work. There are many changes in the forest, so promises were called. Tonight, all I have left is jokes. I'd like a ride from the minister of the country. A brewery on a bear, a beer poster on a pine, a beer tasty, very cheap, now I think he's still stuck. Cuckoos have mixed together forest products in many ways, making forest lemonade with sugar tax is their destiny. Married cobra, the cost of construction, cannot be declared as income from joint work. Oh-oh-oh, the knuckle squirrels broke because they needed food for the winter. The rhinoceros only complained of me no longer need. Something tied all the animals. There was a bit of a nightmare in the air, business stuck in the store, waiting for a tax increase. The forest fair was quiet, waiting for Santa Claus. Maybe he can help, give gifts, it'll be the same. Tonight, for the last time on Christmastime, it's like a Christmas man is gonna be the sleigh of New Year's Eve. Although Santa Claus will come into the forest on foot in the new year, it was well awaited to sneak: "Maybe he'll bring some sense with a bunch." [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U88	Who could be the one I'm gonna give the gift to? Kristen, you. Come from the other side. I've got a nice box for the whole Reform Party, and I'm gonna open it now. It's kind of a fine-tuning first aid kit. If there are always situations in life when there is a need for fine-tuning, then it is nicely stangen, you can call it something else. [[Interjection.]] Slip meter. Let's just say that the microphone foot of the walkie-talkie is 11 millimeters in diameter. Could it be a little second?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U89	I could.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U90	All right, then we'll have to cut it down. It can change that. Then there's a sound for fine-tuning. It can be used. But that's not all. There's also a stethoscope in Santa's gift bag. I'm gonna make sure the politician has a heart. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] There isn't one on this side. There's something beating on both sides. That's fine-tuning. But still not all. The gift received from Santa also includes a viewer pass or water stories. How is it now, which way is Parliament leaning? (From: to the left!)
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U91	Quite balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U92	It should be balanced. A little to the left. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] So there's still some fine-tuning to do here. And then, of course, you can also measure your blood pressure. Let's put it around your hand once. When was the last time you saw a doctor?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U93	But I'll try. The most beautiful tree in town doesn't come. his home is quiet and snowy. In the evening, he will light the fire of the stars on the branches. Angel hair snowy carpets are down. Only the wild animals saw the tree in the gold jewelry. The star branch and the bar where the moon glowed. On Christmas Eve, when the cones become gold, He's gonna be a bird and a squirrel gift tree. The most beautiful Christmas tree isn't coming to town. He's a stranger to the rocky surface of the squares. Or if he does, maybe through your sleep, He's watching you through a dream and he's warming you up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U94	The thing about Christmas is, it's a great time, and excitement comes to the soul. I don't want to ruin it with a song. It's always with me that I'm trying to remember my childhood poem, which I'm sure you've heard from me many times.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U95	Let's hope that's not what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U96	I don't remember to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U97	That's what all men say...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U98	I can't remember at that age.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U99	That's the way it is, and then they sit and eat broth and pie, and they discuss that they don't know when they could see a doctor. Let's take off the shirt. Since it actually turns out that you have a heart inside, basically you should... Here, work nicely out of here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U100	Oh, the hose's still coming through here. We're not gonna be a doctor on the two of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U101	We can't even get on three. Okay, basically, these fine-tuning kits are here. I know that the government and the Riigikogu have now taken major decisions. When you've reached a phase where you feel like everything's fine, but something's chewing, you're gonna call the Reform Party, who's gonna fine-tuning everything. Ow, almost left out an important part of this box. It's still meant for people. That's it. Please, power!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U102	Thank you. With this kit, we'll arrange a proper repair.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U103	It's a proper repair! That's good, I'm in the middle of building a house and I'm in the middle of it because the builders always have suggestions for improvement. For example, an electrician was just finishing up when a plasterer came in and said he had a proposal for improvement. Then the electrician proposed a correction to the plumber. The roof maker proposed 13 improvements to the foundation. After that, there were several other proposals that could not be discussed here. But let's keep going, Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Or has the name changed already? No, it's not. [[Laughter.]] Hello, hello! I have a present here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U104	Nothing's changed about that. Everywhere you talk, people start crying sooner or later and everything gets so beautiful. But there's a book for you. If you still have a new name, it'll be a nice name. It is not worth putting these numbers on people: 2.0, 3.0, etc. Here's your name book, "Name for Our Son, Name for Our Daughter." Let's get rid of it, for example, Isamaa and Res Publica Tiit, or you can choose Merini from here. There's a nice name story in the back, and that should make it very easy for you to choose. That's one thing. And then there's wool socks, patterned, blue-black-white, going back to the roots. When a person has wool socks, he comes out of any horrible situation. No matter how hard he gets, it's the wool socks that win all the battles. Let's put these in here. I haven't given the others the bag, but you'll get the bag, too. [[Let's hear it.]] Good luck, good luck! But let's keep going. Oh, there are good things here. So let's call the esteemed Social Democrats. Come in, come in!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U105	Santa, I'm known in this hall as the quietest man. But I want to make one observation. You told me before that we were gonna hang out here and hang out. At national level, it's called a team thing today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U106	Crew stuff?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U107	"I really respect my friends pigs. May they not see an evil wolf in me. Like nature, the state can make mistakes, an honorable sow I would now call a remote control." "Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, Oh, sweet Ivar, we've got a million five you promised, but we've got two. I'm not gonna give up on you. You give me a whip, but we're not giving up our reproductive fault." "You don't give up, dear sow, to reproduce. Your sweet carbonate is the way of life in Estonia. I'd like to have a table with you, middle-aged mother, now you'll get them a little more love time." "Yeah, yeah, yeah, I got more days of my life, and even though thousands of us were driven into a plague oven, we'd call you the father of the firefly people. We have no meat for the country to do harm." "Now let the creator make sure we don't get the crap out of us, so that the new year's supply chain works, and that the citizen gets the blood handshake, brother's butt, expensive, between turnips." [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U108	Uh-huh. It's like "The Old Man and the Sea." Are they very smart?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U109	Let's hope, dear christmas man, there's still this piece of shit on your desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U110	Yeah, team stuff. And that's what we Social Democrats are gonna do to you today for a presentation on a team thing. It's kind of a really nice thing, and it's called "Padar and Em."
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U111	No, it's about 14 minutes in a row.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U112	For example, at the moment, it did not affect anyone that way. Now for the gift too. Here's a little square meter of good parquet. [[Laughter.]] If you feel like you're not turning out to be a parquet again, you have your own parquet. Looks very pretty. You can put it together. Keep it up like this, by lifting it, you'll get through every situation. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U113	Have you already paid off in a wholesale warehouse somewhere, say, 100 square meters of parquet?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U114	Not for now. I haven't thought that far yet. But if you feel like you're not parquet-ready again, you'll take it out quickly. You don't have to ask others for alms all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U115	Okay, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U116	Good luck and let's see that next year or ever in a few years this version of LED torches will still be left.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U117	Right. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U118	Well, good luck! [[Let's hear it.]] Now the Centre Party was almost missed. But I didn't. Well, I would like to ask for a reputable representation of the Central Party, who has greeted us with a wonderful song every time. The pill's with me, I didn't cheat my hope this time either. Hello, hello! I saw you rehearsing last night, behind the window, wherever else. Hello, hello! How about this year, is it a little shorter?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U119	Since which one gets bored?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U120	Right when you start blinking. We're kind of in a fit right now, like, ten minutes at a time. It may be that I'll be ten minutes, then there'll be a slogan, and then there'll be ten more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U121	Would you like a microphone too?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U122	No, we have male voices here, all grown-up boys, there's no talk here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U123	I can get out of the way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U124	No, no, it's such a sacred place, it can't be here. We're still trying to play and sing for nothing. The Reform Party did a beautiful Christmas song here, and then the microphone spoke awful evil words and obscene things. We're doing pretty good, we've got a refugee song. Everyone recognizes who's about as old as we are. You are, of course, ancient, eternal and eternal, but we are such a passing phenomenon, a one-way ticket.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U125	I heard I'm east-Russian...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U126	Ha-ha! Of course, unlike EKRE and torches, we sing in Estonian and do not promote other languages here. Estonian is still the best language that exists. Don't you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U127	Is the song on yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U128	No, that was the introductory part. [[March Sults plays guitar and sings, Toomas Paur and Toomas Väinaste sing.]] Where are you now, Reform Party, and what you're counting on, I don't know. Do you ever feel like I'm ahead of you, Reform Party? I'll hold your hand, Reform Party, and stand by you in secret, I'll see you through, Reform Party, no matter what you do. Let me be your day, let me be your night, Let me be your wish, you'll be waiting for me. Let me get some luck, take care of you, You wish I was it. There's gonna be a time, Reform Party, your eyes open for me. That's what I know, Reform Party, what you belong to. There's gonna be a day, Reform Party, that you wanna find a friend for yourself, Then you call me, Reform Party, because I'm it. Let me be your day, let me be your night, Let me be your wish, you'll be waiting for me. Let me get some luck, take care of you, You wish I was it. [[Let's hear it.]] Kersti, come here!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U129	Thank you. It didn't come as a surprise that you could sing so nicely. Ever since I was a kid, I've admired you, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U130	Hey, I'm sorry! Now I'm going to have a childhood because you think you've been around my childhood. Do you know where I sang most and most often and with the loudest voice? Well, things used to be like dry toilets. We had rats living in that dry toilet, and I was so scared of rats. And to scare them, I sang with a loud voice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U131	I've got it pretty good with me, even all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U132	Did you bring us any?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U133	It's different with you. I choose what you can carry with you all the time. Small things can do much bigger things than these big things. Soccer, you're in this, let's say, thermologically very difficult situation. You must be between the Centre Party and the Fatherland Union; you are there as a vital lice that must endure every weather event and cannot be without it. There's a lice and a good bell, too. And tell me, is it possible that without you the government of the Centre Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Union would ever have come true? Never could have.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U134	Without us, there will be no government here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U135	And you can't stay together without a crowful, it's gotta be beautiful to watch, and it's always gotta be nice to hold on to the tension. So great! I'll give you that red bag. [[Let's hear it.]] I was actually going to give the Fatherland League another gift, it was left behind when they came here. I thought it would be good for them to have a proper gymnastic textbook. But in Fatherland, there's such extraordinary flexibility already inside that I don't think they need that kind of thing. Now I call here the EKRE boys, I haven't seen you in so long, I don't think I can see you. EKRE, please come, the gift is here! All right, go ahead and take a step to show young people the right way and give guidance. Please, step on the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U136	I've already been here today, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U137	I saw it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U138	We have our expectations, by the way, but I will see that this gift does not meet our expectations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U139	How do you know that from far away?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U140	Look, there's this thing called a deductive method. We wanted to do a hell of a demonstration. There are not many of us in this hall, but we searched the city of Tallinn for two days to see if we could get torches that would allow us to come to this hall, which are not flammable and which are not banned by the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U141	There are LED torches.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U142	Couldn't find it. We were wondering if Santa would bring it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U143	I'll be sure to bring you next time, but you're gonna have to stay here so you'll still be here by then.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U144	I think we'll be next year. Maybe in two years, we'll be here in 51. I don't know, then you're gonna have to bring a bunch of elves who still bring presents with bags.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U145	If you're 51 in two years, there won't be any law left that won't allow us to come here with torches. [[Let's hear it, laugh.]] But is there a little poem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U146	You know, somebody had a microphone here, I'd love to take it. Look, we've forgotten one important thing. Can I get that microphone? Doesn't work? It's working. It's not just such a fun story here, it's one person's birthday. And we thought we could celebrate this birthday by singing a traditional. My dear partymates are teasing me at all party parties and they want me to sing a famous song called "The Lights of a Foreign City." Now I've decided I'm singing, but I'm not singing that song. I'm singing a traditional, true, not full, which reminds me that Christmas is one baby's birthday: Long time ago in Bethlehem So the Holy Bible say Mary"s boy child, Jesus Christ Wasborn is Christmas Day. Hark now hear the angels sing A newborn king has come This man will live for evermore For the sake of Christmas Day. Then there will be four more verses, but I won't sing anymore. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U147	Very respectable, the right choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U148	That's okay, right? Okay. Here's that, congratulations, see for yourself how you handle it! [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U149	So good spin! Because, as I understand it, the main part of funding all kinds of plans is that you still have good luck. So you could totally use it. I'll see if there's anyone left. We obviously don't have the seventh party, good friends. What do you want me to say in conclusion? It's good to see you. To look so unanimous, so friendly. Well, we've had quick shifts here, haven't we? I guess I've actually bored myself with this eternal living only according to my own possibilities. [[Laughter.]] In the meantime, it makes sense to turn the second page and get some rest, indeed. Probably future generations... Yeah, well, I guess future generations will pay for all their responsibilities, but since there's not much to come of, there's no more trouble. So cheer up, see you next year! I think all the fun you've been doing this year is hard to beat. But knowing you, my thumbs are in my hand, waiting. Something like that, anyway. So, good luck! I can see it yawning. We need to go home to bed soon. Unfortunately, I think you've stopped thinking about working on Saturdays and Sundays. Is that all for this year? No, they're not. They're gonna say it in a jolly voice. [[Laughter.]] Good luck and strength! See you later! [[Let's hear it.]] I'll see you then!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U150	You can still come. Actually, as we understand it, there were a lot of clues. I wouldn't feel too happy about myself now, you know, as an IRL. [[Laughter.]] But just keep up, keep up. I'm gonna check it out here. I found it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U151	Dear Santa, did you see how good the boys are and where they're still singing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U152	Yeah, they learned from last year. I told them the song could be short rather than long and he could have a thought inside. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U153	And it turns out it was a thought.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U154	Yeah, for the first time! That was a really good surprise to me. But now for the gift of the first part of the cup. It's a cyclist and it's written "The most important invention of manhood is the wheel." [[Let's hear it.]] Please! But there's still time. Everyone's eyes are now turned to your party, of course, and there's a bike again. This is now the kind of thing that should help you meet all your wishes. You can choose here. If you want to finance a promise... (Twists the wheel.) It's a wheel of fortune, let's see where it came from. Fire two, two pots. If it wasn't enough, you say you need three, you pull it again. Let's see what happens now. Now here's where we're gonna give the guarantee if we have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U155	It's fitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-12-15_U156	Honourable Riigikogu, the trial is actually over. Closure of the sitting at 12.14 p.m.
