ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 50 members of the Riigikogu, no 51. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Defence Hannes Hanso and Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur participate in Question Time. As the interest in asking questions is gratifying, I can only give the opportunity to ask one point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U2	The first questioner is Kadri Simson and the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U3	Dear Taavi in the garment! On February 1, the following week's Monday, excise duty on petrol will rise by 10% and excise duty on diesel will rise by 14%, so the petrol litre will increase by 5.1 cents and the diesel litre will increase by 6.6 cents. The situation will become even weirder if we start looking at how much of the price of fuel is made up of national taxes. If we look at excise duty and VAT, we can see that, even now, before the price increase, national taxes account for 61% of the price of fuel. How do you justify such a large proportion of taxes on the price of fuel, especially in a situation where even road financing is decoupled from the receipt of excise duties on fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U4	Thank you. The reorientation of the tax burden has been a conscious policy of the government. We want to reduce taxes on the income of Estonian people and to tax harmful consumption more. This is why labour taxes will fall in the coming years and excise duties will rise, including excise duties on tobacco, alcohol and also on fuel. This is a fully informed tax policy choice. If you think that a large proportion of the final price of excise goods is excise duty, I suggest you look at the evolution of the price of vodka, for example. The lion's share of the final price of vodka is state taxes; the costs of producing vodka are negligible compared to national taxes. It has been a policy that different governments are fully aware of so that a bottle of vodka does not become more available at the store's price, but rather the other way round. It aims to reduce alcohol consumption. As far as the price of fuel is concerned, I remember the last time in May we fought heated battles here in the Riigikogu on this subject. I am pleased to say that diesel fuel in Estonia is 25 cents and more cheaper than it was in May, even after the increase in excise duty. Secondly, if we compare with our neighbours, even after this increase in excise duty, diesel fuel is cheaper than in Latvia, let alone Finland. The price difference with Finland is also 25 cents.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U6	Dear Taavi in the garment! The idea of excise duty added to vodka is indeed to tax vices. This certainly does not apply to fuel, because fuel is necessary to get people in rural areas to move, for example. The fuel used in furnaces is also essential for Estonian people, but it is also subject to excise duty. The redundancies in Kiviter and the write-downs of Eesti Energia investments reveal the more unpleasant consequences of the fall in oil prices. You said in the spring that the increase in excise duty has no significant impact on price. You can now say that due to the global market downturn, fuel prices are not the highest. But do you dare say that if today's oil barrel cost was more than $100, you wouldn't have made an increase in excise duty? Admit that this tax increase is still only made to pay the Treasury some taxes, because the classic taxes that the rest of the eurozone collects have been decided not to collect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U7	Thank you. I assume when you were talking about redundancies in Ida-Viru County, you meant Viru Chemistry Group. However, I believe that this issue is so important that members of the Riigikogu could also familiarise themselves with the details, for example, of the company in which the lay-off took place. But we are certainly going to talk more about this today, including what I expect from both the unemployment fund and the members of the government to resolve this crisis. However, I do not agree that if the world market price for fuel was several times higher than today, excise policy would have the same opportunities. There is no doubt that excise policy must also take into account the current state of the market. At present, it must be acknowledged that the most favourable situation is probably possible in order to obtain additional revenue from excise duties and, however, to give people a signal that the consumption of fossil fuels is also harmful to the environment. You claimed that only alcohol and tobacco are harmful goods. However, in the last 25 years, all Estonian governments have been guided by the logic that the consumption of fossil fuels also leaves a very clear mark on the environment, and that is why fuel has been subject to excise duty throughout the independence period in Estonia. In my opinion, that makes sense. At the same time, we recognise that the impact of these increases in excise duties, which have, however, been aimed at channelling people towards more sustainable consumption and restricting excessive consumption, has recently completely nullified the fact that fuel prices have fallen very sharply. Once again, after the increase in excise duty, fuel will remain cheaper in Estonia than in Latvia, and it will remain a total of 25 cents cheaper than in May, when we last held this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U8	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U9	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! What logic do you follow when you say that fuel is going to be cheaper than in Latvia? If we have an excise duty on diesel of 14% and 2% in Latvia, do we not have market rules in Latvia and Estonia? What logic do you follow? The VAT gap is only 1%: Latvia has 21% and we have 20%. After all, fuel is supplied from the same source. I think I'll come back to that question in a month and see what you're saying. However, you also said that fuel consumption is harmful. I'm asking if living in the countryside is even harmful. A landman, to get moving, must use a car and must also use fuel. Children's families were given child support, but through the price of car fuel, the state takes it all back. What kind of logic is that? When we talk about entrepreneurship and support for businesses, the machines of many transport companies today, when they are moving towards the west, are refueling in Latvia. In the future, most of Latvia will start to refuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U10	A question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U11	What will Estonia benefit from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U12	Thank you. As always, I'm based on the facts in my answers. I can tell you what the fuel prices of 26 January, or yesterday, were in the various European countries. Petrol was 12.7 cents more expensive in Latvia on 26 January than in Estonia and diesel was 7 cents more expensive. This means that from 1 February, after the increase in excise duty in Estonia, the fuel will remain more expensive in Latvia. If we look at the comparison with Finland, it has been repeatedly said here that Estonian excise duties are already approaching the level of Finland, then we must admit that these people have also been mistaken here. In Finland yesterday, petrol was 43 euro cents more expensive than in Estonia, i.e. it was 1.33 and diesel fuel was 30 cents more expensive in Finland than in Estonia yesterday. If you come to the other side of your question, I hope that you have listened very carefully to my response to your colleague, Kadri Samson, where I have emphasised that today, in many ways, fuel is at very low prices due to the situation on the world market. If we compare it with May, after the increase in excise duty, the fuel will remain 25 cents a litre cheaper than it was in May, and compared, for example, to a few years ago, the fuel will be 43 cents cheaper from 1 February onwards. As a consumer, I believe you agree that the price of fuel is really significantly more favourable than it was a while ago, even after the rise in excise duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U13	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U14	The next question is for the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, to ask Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U15	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The winter season is, of course, the period when home researchers start to break into summer homes. I can give you an example of Aakre, where in the last few weeks, criminals have wiped out almost all empty houses. I can give you similar examples from several places in Pärnumaa. People have approached me with complaints that the police are not handling these cases properly. People are giving up reporting a crime because they know that it doesn't do any good. Has the Ministry of the Interior acknowledged this problem and is there plans to find the means and make political decisions to put an end to this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U16	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of the Interior, together with the Police and Border Guard Board, regularly reviews the statistics on offences, both crimes and misdemeanours. We will, of course, also look at which types of crime and types of misdemeanour are most prevalent. If you look at thefts and burglaries, you have to say that their overall number has not increased significantly throughout the year, as well as the number of misdemeanours. If we look at all the offences, in 2015, 2% fewer offences were committed than in 2014. As for breaking and entering summer homes, my advice is to report all these cases. For some time, we had problems with car thieves from Lithuania and it was vital that the victims report what happened. Some groups of thieves have been caught. The same is true of stealing from houses, not just summer homes, but all burglaries. If the police don't know what happened and can't gather evidence, they won't be able to take the guilty to a trial. If the same group has committed several crimes with the same handwriting, then it is all the more necessary for all victims to report them, because even if, for example, the total value of what was stolen from one summer house is less than EUR 200, the total value of the goods stolen from all summer homes is already large enough to put together a criminal case and send the guilty to court when they are caught.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U17	Mart Helme, the point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U18	The issue to be clarified is the concern of people that the damage caused by the crime is not detected to the extent that it is possible to prosecute the perpetrator. It blames the amendment that has taken place in the meantime, which has raised this "price ceiling," which is why such cases are no longer recorded as crimes against property, but as crimes against property. Therefore, even if apprehended, criminals escape without responsibility. Is the Home Office going to do something about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U19	Thank you. As regards changing the line between wrongdoing and crime, it was discussed here in Parliament some time ago. As it was an amendment to the Penal Code, the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice seem to have explained why the line between wrongdoing and crime changed. In any case, the police can investigate a misdemeanor. It is not a question of not being able to investigate. At the same time, it must be admitted that the Estonian police, like the police in all countries, do not have enough resources to investigate all wrongs thoroughly. There is no point in creating an illusion that absolutely all wrongs and crimes are being investigated with the same intensity. They won't. The harder the crime, the more intensive the investigation is. However, once again, any person whose summer home is in fact no matter what kind of property is being broken into should report it. As I said, all cases are of great importance in the collection and it is much easier to bring this person's accusation to justice if the same person can be identified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U20	Martin Helme, the point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U21	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. How do you comment when the police advise the person who came in with a break-in report that they should comb the sales portals and pawnshops and if they find anything, let the police know. In some other circumstances, a person may be accused of illegal pursuits or self - justice for doing so. Can you tell me from this remote, is such a police recommendation officially sanctioned by the Ministry, or is this the police's own initiative? Or should we all begin to investigate crimes ourselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U22	Thank you. A good member of the Riigikogu now went a little far with his thought development. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. When a person looks at sales ads or walks through a pawn shop, it is certainly not illegal activity. Every person in the Republic of Estonia is perfectly justified to see all sales ads published on the Internet. There's nothing here that's more criminal, illegal surveillance. So, of course, if a person does something to find his or her belongings, he or she should be commended for making his or her own contributions. Of course, the first suggestion is that there should be more prevention, that locks should be in order and, if possible, that there should be some kind of security system on the property. But if a person really struggles to find his own fortune, there is nothing regrettable or deserving of reproach.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U24	The next question is for Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Good Secretary of Defense! The fact that more than 2% of GDP goes to the Estonian Defence Forces is positive and I consider it right at this time. At the same time, however, the various internal security agencies complain about a huge lack of money. The general criticism is that whoever is in charge of the Ministry of Defence lives like a king's cat, but other internal security bodies follow the string and make huge cuts. How has the reasonableness of purchases and investments been analysed in your ministry, and how has the financial behaviour of your employees been monitored?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U26	Good questioner, thank you for your question. I, too, agree that it is reasonable at this time to allocate to national defence the amount that we have promised NATO and our allies, or 2% of GDP. This will be complemented by costs incurred by the host country, which are not even small amounts. The defence budget this year is 449 million euros and, assuming that the economy is growing, this amount will increase as there is a consensus on the allocation of 2% in the Riigikogu and the government. That is why what is being done with this money is, of course, extremely important. As a minister, I am for the money to be used prudently and rationally. The fact that we live like the king's cats is definitely a myth. Just as a parallel, if we are talking about possible new future capabilities, be they tanks or mid-earth anti-aircraft, we need to plan all this very carefully. It is far from guaranteed that we have money for all these things. There's been talk in this very hall about coast guard and all that. We will be looking forward to defensive planning for a very long period of 10 years. With a ten-year plan, the government sets the goals we are moving towards and the overall sums. When we make the Ministry of Defence's own budget, we review our development plans each year. In the four-year-old key, we're already looking at it exactly, almost a cent of the amount that goes into. The National Audit Office has, of course, access to our procurements; we also have an internal audit system. Looking after your money is a constant process and there must certainly be no compromises here. I have signed a decree that we will create a national defence investment centre where all this information will be brought together. It is the managing authority that will be responsible for this area, with the possibility of auditing. This will further reduce fragmentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U27	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U28	I'd say we're heading in the right direction right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U29	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U30	Thank you for your answer. I'll take it from here. As we know, there has also been a talk here in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu that the National Audit Office has wanted to carry out an audit in your institution, but no funds have been allocated for this. At the moment, you mentioned that you will still be audited by the National Audit Office. What kind of audit is the National Audit Office doing is the first part of the question. The other side is how you have the supervision of procurements organised by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U31	Thank you. The National Audit Office makes its choices routinely, depending on what they consider important. We will not let them know in advance of any areas they should audit. They audit both the Defence Forces and the departments of the Ministry of Defence, as they deem necessary. Of course, we give these people licenses so they can access all things. What areas they accurately audit, it's up to them. If there are bottlenecks, issues that need attention, we'll get them to work on a routine basis. Such questions have also been on my desk this month, one of the topics related, for example, to the medicine and medical services of the Defence Forces, and perhaps there was something else. These are the issues that we propose to resolve in routine action. I think we need to be as transparent as the whole country can be. There are, of course, areas that we cannot give every person access to. I hope everyone agrees that this is reasonable. However, the necessary posts are available everywhere in the state structure and are filled with people who have permits and can complete this work in a transparent manner. There's an internal audit inside the house all the time. A number of people work with the Defence Forces and review everything that concerns procurement. This job goes on all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U32	Jaanus Karilaid, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U33	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! Now there was a slight discrepancy between what you said and what you really did. On the contrary, the National Audit Office has been asking for 250,000 euros for years to review military procurement. The state budget is quite large and the Prime Minister is very pleased with it, but this EUR 250000 has not been found for some reason. Why hasn't that money been found? All the more so as you are talking about the creation of a new centre in your administration, but civil control is weak and the spending of taxpayers' money remains opaque.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U34	Thank you. With regard to the EUR 250000 mentioned, I do not know the background, but the Prime Minister sitting next to me said that this is simply the creation of new posts that were not wanted within the current structure. As I replied to the questioners, the National Audit Office audits or checks our activities on a regular basis. As far as openness is concerned, the ten-year development plan is, of course, open, our major objectives to which we are moving are open with detailed precision. Obviously we cannot always tell the public about all our plans, for example, about procurement, which concerns ammo, technology and all this, but we have authorized people in the country who can deal with these issues until the end. When there are bottlenecks, we always deal with them. When we're talking about civilian control, I don't know any other country where it works better. The military people certainly do not run the country in any way and we have a democratic process, the defence ministers and all the other people who are responsible for security will change. So I don't think we have any shortcomings here. Estonia is a democratic state, and civil control over defence forces and defence policy is certainly an important part of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U35	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U36	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I hope you know about the problems in Ida-Virumaa now, starting with families sitting in cold apartments and ending with layoffs. These redundancies that we are seeing now are, in fact, only the tip of the iceberg. For example, the redundancies in the VKG are certainly linked to the price of oil. Fortunately or unfortunately, you cannot influence the price of oil. However, the question is whether we will have to give up our opportunities in the future, just as in the past. I am thinking, for example, of the same Nord Stream, which has already been said a thousand times, transit and the same Russian tourists we are giving up because of the rise in VAT. Or do you still have another plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U38	Thank you. First of all, any redundancy that causes many people to lose their jobs must be taken very seriously. I am therefore pleased that the country has been very active since the first moments since this information arrived, in thinking about how to find new jobs for people and how to find jobs that are most suitable for people who are unemployed or, more specifically, those who are unemployed and which would bring bread to their families. On the first day, as early as Friday, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal met at the VKG, through whom the government has also received a very detailed overview of exactly what has happened. In addition, there have been several meetings between the unemployment fund and the employees of the Viru Chemistry Group. I expect a lot from the unemployment fund. I want to see this case resolved as an emergency and therefore more force is involved than under normal circumstances. This also means that the unemployment fund must extend its 'normal' role and individually approach all those people who, according to current information, are circa 370. We're planning to have another work fair in Viru Chemistry Group in the next few days. At present, it is known that there are a number of employers who, on the basis of the first estimate, offer nearly 200 jobs that could suit these people. Of course, everything depends very much on the results of this particular work fair and what people decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U39	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U40	Thank you. I still stress that Ida-Viru County is currently experiencing a major social disaster, and I think that the government should declare a crisis situation. I understand you disagreed with me. In order for you to really understand the complexity of the situation, I invite you to come with me. We'll go together tonight and see how these miserable people live in these apartments. If you could see what the situation is now, if you lived in Ida-Virumaa for a few days, I think you'd think differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U41	Thank you. I didn't quite understand exactly what the reproach was, that I'm definitely thinking differently. On the contrary, I stressed that this is a situation that the unemployment fund must approach in an extraordinary way. When an emergency situation is declared, there must also be a clear practical value and the follow-up resulting from it. It's just that I don't think it's right to announce anything because of the news. I think we need to focus on the concrete steps that help these people the most. Helping them find a new job will help them. We also have a national safety net. All the people who are made redundant are guaranteed the same income as they have received so far during the first few months, from there they will receive half of their previous income, etc. over the next six months. However, if we are able to find jobs for people within a few months, this is, of course, a much better solution than the fact that they have to apply for and wait for redundancy benefit from the unemployment fund. In order for them to get a job, the unemployment fund organises job search workshops on the ground both today and the day after tomorrow, interacting with every job seeker and looking for a job that could best suit him. As I said, on 2 February the VKG is scheduled to organise a job fair, to which 14 employers have announced their arrival, who are likely to have suitable jobs to offer. But the negotiations are going on with 30 Ida-Viru employers, so hopefully there will be more to the fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U42	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U43	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! It should be noted that the largest companies in the oil shale industry are Eesti Energia and Viru Keemia Grupp. What is happening in the Viru Chemistry Group is, of course, very regrettable. We bring together people who have been educated, who have great experience and who have worked there for many years. You're offering them new jobs. But where are these jobs? Perhaps somewhere else in Estonia there are 9,000 jobs that you talked about, they are not in Ida-Virumaa. Then a man should leave Ida-Virumaa. I also wanted to say that these jobs offered are those where the experience that could be useful in the oil shale industry cannot be used. Aren't you afraid that the oil shale industry will disappear from Estonia at all? It's very easy to dismantle, but it's very difficult to build up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U44	Thank you. As your colleague Martin Repinski rightly said, these redundancies are very directly linked to the world oil price. This naturally affects the Estonian oil shale industry. At the same time, the management of the Viru Chemistry Group has said that if the world oil market is to rise significantly compared to today, there will be a renewed demand for a very large number of people. It must be taken into account that the oil shale industry will have an important place in the Estonian economy in the future. Moreover, these oil plants, which operate on more modern Petroter technology, which allows for a certain lower cost of production, will continue to operate. However, I dare to hope that in the future it will be possible to keep jobs in the oil shale industry and perhaps to create more jobs in a distant perspective. With regard to the rapid solution specifically for these people, yes, you are right: it is very likely that not all of them will find exactly the same work as they had in the Viru Chemistry Group. As the oil shale industry as a whole is in a difficult situation, there is currently no possibility of hiring so many people in other oil shale companies. However, in my opinion, it is up to the unemployment fund to find jobs that are as close as possible to the former so that people can do the work that they can do and that brings them bread on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U45	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U46	The next question is for Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Why are the graduates of police school, police officers not given a document that a person has been trained in weapons and has the right to carry a service weapon? Why do the service departments to which these people are assigned have to work alongside their main work? What's all the fuss about?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U48	Thank you for your question. I don't think there's any confusion. When a young cadet, who has also been trained in the handling of a weapon, enters the service, he receives a weapon at his place of employment. He must constantly overconfirm his ability to handle his weapon. It cannot be that the cadet comes from school and, for the rest of his life and service, he does not have to prove and confirm that his ability to handle the weapon remains. The weapon is so dangerous in nature that, of course, the ability to handle a weapon must be constantly overconfirmed. The school provides first training on how a police officer, whether he is serving at a border guard or at a police station, must handle a weapon. But all the cadets who come from school don't have to carry a gun in the service. Mentors of merit are not obliged to carry a gun in the service, nor do police officers in a court of law need to have a weapon. Thus, according to the place of employment, people receive training, as well as a service weapon, and must confirm their competence at regular intervals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U49	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U50	Thank you. Mr. Minister! It was, of course, a beautiful story you were talking about, but the truth is, they're going to their unit and they don't have any paper on how they've been training guns. This has to be dealt with by sub-units. The same is true in the police department and, in part, in the precincts, where people who do not work directly on the street work, but work inside the house and have no service weapon attached to their name. How do you explain this situation? Who's responsible for this? I remember from my period of service that all those who had graduated from the Border Guard School, no matter what kind of unit they entered the service, either at headquarters or anywhere, were armed with a service weapon because these people could also be used during crises. Now it turns out that some of the police couldn't be used at all because their names aren't even armed with a service weapon. Who's responsible for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U51	Thank you. Once again, those workers who need a weapon in the service to whom it is assigned by virtue of their duties also have a weapon. Those police and border guards who don't need a gun don't have the right to carry guns. If the Police and Border Guard Board, for example, employs an accountant, then even though he is a member of the Police and Border Guard Board, he does not need to have a gun. The weapon is carried by those who have a need for it, and the weapon is used in and out of service when it is necessary, only by those who are authorized to carry weapons.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U52	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U53	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. You and the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board have both confirmed that border control will be restored in ports and on the Estonian-Latvian border, if necessary, and strengthened with internal resources. We know that there is nowhere to take additional forces for continuous control. Are you going to direct border control to the same unarmed officials you mentioned earlier? Isn't that a direct security risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U54	Thank you. If temporary border controls are needed, it will be possible to use the assistance of the Defence Union, which we have done before. Similarly, we use the resources of the Police and Border Guard Board itself. Then resources will be redirected. For example, in Central Estonia, some of the traffic patrols might be thinner, and these people will go to work at the border if the security situation requires it. On the basis of the risk assessment, decisions shall be taken and those changes shall be implemented. The same is true in other European countries, when the security situation requires that border control should be restored, or some other situation of this kind arises. For example, we can ask about Germany and Austria, where temporary border controls have been restored at the road crossing points where these people are taken from. They are still taken from the existing line of service, and something else is therefore left unfinished. So if we need to restore border control for a short period of time, we will do the same. However, if there is some kind of longer-term change, we will, of course, discuss in the government and in this Parliament that there is a need to increase the membership of the Police and Border Guard Board. For short-term change, however, we are prepared with the Police and Border Guard Board and good partners from the Defence League.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U55	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U56	Question for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U57	Thank you. Prime Minister! The deadline for the nomination of a Member of the European Court of Auditors was already November. Time keeps flowing and flowing, but nothing's happened. There are still a few national procedures that follow, in particular various procedures in the Council of the European Union and consultations in the European Parliament. As far as I know, one committee will appoint a rapporteur, there will be hearings and a decision will finally be taken. Every decent body needs a reasonable amount of time to do so. This stretching is already embarrassing, these signals tend to come. Well, according to my records, tomorrow is a very high time for the government to make that decision. Will it come? If they don't, then what happens next? But if it does come, maybe you're ready to increase the news value of our Question Time, too, because you should already know what the solution is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U58	Thank you. I believe that this decision will come in the coming weeks. I looked at your proposal. You proposed a very innovative approach to how to fill this position. I do not think there is any reason for this, however. In Estonia, the rules of procedure of the law and government have been very precisely regulated, which member of the government will propose a candidate and how the procedure will be conducted. The law also states that it is a government decision. So with such decision-making processes, we will come to that decision. As I have said before, there is no need to worry; Estonia will not be unrepresented.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U59	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! As I recall, there was one great point in the coalition agreement that the decision-making power of the Prime Minister should increase in cases where there are issues between two chairs or where the parties are unable to reach an agreement. Why haven't you taken responsibility yourself? I understand that this problem is stuck with your coalition partners, who are probably negotiating on another matter at the moment. The situation is really getting awkward, and the time frame is very narrow, not for us, but for European procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U61	Thank you. It has been good practice in Estonia for quite a long time that decisions are taken by consensus in the government. We know a number of very bad examples of the past when failure to agree also caused very quickly the end of government cooperation. That is why I have chosen this path to come closer to consensus. I appreciate that this is how the hopes of success are greatest, and that is how the best solution can be found. So let's just wait a little longer, find this candidate, he's definitely not gonna stay. In the meantime, we have reached a consensus on much bigger issues in the government, we have solved very large disputes on very fundamental issues. Such personal elections, I understand, offer a lot of excitement, but when you look at the most important points in government action, the first ten, or even a hundred, usually these topics that attract the most attention, do not tend to reach.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U62	Martin Helme, the point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U63	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! Unlike the previous speaker, I do not give a shit what we think in Europe. Our opposition to the candidacy of Juhan Parts is directly related to his actions or omissions as a minister. But you mentioned here twice that this decision will come in the coming weeks or that you will wait a while longer. All of us in this Parliament know that this decision is linked to the votes of the IRL in support of the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act. Can I understand this in this way that we must wait until exactly the date of the final vote on the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act by approving a candidate for a Member of the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U64	Thank you. I wouldn't tie these issues up like that. It is clear that one issue is a decision within the competence of Parliament and the other one is a decision within the competence of the government. But as far as your introductory speech is concerned, let me say that, in my opinion, it was exceptionally short-sighted. What we are believed to be in Europe, whether Estonia is a good ally to its allies and a good partner to its partners, is of vital importance to us. Only the largest cynic can think that a small country that is relatively aggressive and next to a country a hundred times larger than us can survive and succeed without having allies. So, in my opinion, the view is that what we are believed to be in Europe does not mean warm or cold, extremely shortsighted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U66	Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso answers and asks for Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U67	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! Last night, on TV, there was an issue of buying combat vehicles from Norway. The journalist asked the Deputy Chancellor of Pärnamägi directly whether, even now, he should know what problems might arise as a result of the procurement. He referred to the conversion of machinery and its expensive and monopolistic scenario for the future. The Vice Chancellor of Pärnamäe replied: 'Yes, it would be very nice if I could say this today, but let's move one step at a time. As I said, this armoured maneuvering capacity we are building for the first time in Estonia. " The answer clearly indicates that there is an opportunity that was also warned by experts criticising the purchase of Norwegian armored vehicles. Only one company can actually be rebuilt. How do you remove these doubts that procurement could become more expensive than planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U68	Thank you. I also watched the TV play I was referring to. What Vice Chancellor Pärnamäe said is absolutely right: the armoured manoeuvrability is still being built up. That is something we must definitely continue to do. In fact, it's only part of getting a full armored maneuver. We must definitely move towards this in time. As regards the part of the question of the exact price of this transaction, we know what we want, but we do not know what the possible price of the bidders will be. We will, of course, choose the most advantageous of them. With this Norwegian procurement, we're going to get a command armor, close defence squad armor, battle repair squad armored car, battle pioneer armored car, anti-tank armored car, anti-aircraft armored car, wounded transport or medical armored car, a transport armored car that transports ammunition or explosives, an anti-tank squad armored car, and an armored car with a 60-millimeter mortar. These are things that aren't for sale anywhere in the store, on a tag. This is pure tailoring, adapted to our needs. Just the day before yesterday, I signed the papers to announce the procurement process. I hope in the second half of this year we can say who will win this procurement. This claim that it can only be won by one company is certainly not correct. I think there's about a dozen, ten sure. Whoever wins this procurement is, of course, impossible to say today. This is the point of the procurement: different companies make an offer and we choose the best from among them. Of course, we're about to know what we can pay, what the price ceiling is. But to say it out in the open would certainly be very foolish. I believe that today's performance here will also be heard by the people involved. We look at the offers and, of course, make a decision based on them, as good practice suggests.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U69	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U70	Thank you. Good minister! Don't you see any problems in the planning of procurement, but if you do, what are you going to do about it? I referred earlier to the fact that the National Audit Office has requested resources to help with the assessment of the accuracy of the objective of military procurement. Do you see any problems here or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U71	Thank you. The defence budget is broadly divided into three parts. One third of this is investment and procurement, the second third is personnel costs and the third is operating costs. These amounts are obviously increasing each year, including our technology and fire power levels. We're going to go lighter, cheaper, more technologically advanced. That is why I have signed a paper to create a special administration that professionally deals with the hundreds of purchases made in both the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence (I will say by now that the number of purchases is over 400, maybe 450 every year). This would improve cooperation and coordination of these activities. It's hugely important when we look at the next few years. In terms of four or five years, I can imagine, the defence sector spends around EUR 1 billion on procurement alone. Of course, control, transparency, freedom of corruption and the rational spending of money in this area are extremely important. That's what we do every day. The National Audit Office, as has been mentioned, deals with this, as well as the internal audit systems we are working on. So is there a problem? If hundreds of procurements are made, there are still some problems from time to time, it is inevitable, it happens in every area, but we will do our best to minimise the problems, and we will also deal with it proactively.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U72	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Yes, unfortunately, this procurement has raised a number of questions in opponents. Supposedly, it's a waste. No other country in which CV90 is used will use it as a support pouch, but it will do so. During the same procurement, the German Ministry of Defence offered us virtually free armored M577, which is in use in many countries, among which are already built management and medical goods that do not need repair. The Defence League also needs armoured vehicles to perform a number of tasks and also for teaching purposes. Have you considered the possibility of obtaining the German cheap or almost free armories for the Defence League? If the budget is a problem, I am willing to give up my monthly salary, even if it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U74	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, it would be very moody if members of the Riigikogu were to start obtaining technical resources from other countries for the Defence League. In general, we plan defence in advance for a very long time, we have clear objectives on which we are moving, and they are also covered by resources. Any free getting, as life has shown, of these mistakes we have made ourselves in this country in the early 1990s, will inevitably end up very expensive. This German technique is, in part, older than me, from the 1960s and 1970s. These technical platforms, which were discussed here on television, are completely out of date. They're no longer in active use, as far as I know. In Germany, too, this technique stood and rusted; the United States has long taken it out of use. It did not suit us either in terms of permeability or in terms of the strength of the scales, and these armored vehicles were too high for our purposes. So we would have had huge alterations and other problems with them. The platforms we use for practice could be as similar as possible. Therefore, I do not foresee that we should begin to obtain such funds for the Defence League. Our defence planning is at a very high level, I think that, especially since 2013, we have been looking at it in a very long perspective. I, as Minister of Defence, cannot approve of such emotional works. All of this must be based on planning and a thoughtful systemic approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U75	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U76	Three and a half minutes to the end of Question Time. The question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas is asked by Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U77	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! You recently met Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, and you spoke, among other things, about migration or the migration crisis. In the postman, you indicated that you and Frau Kantslerin will find the common language in word. The German policy on migration issues is very different from that of Estonia. For example, they are in favour of a central quota system that can be controlled by the Commission, and Chancellor Merkel has believed that there is no ceiling on the number of immigrants. Although you do not tell us this figure, you do admit that the upper limit of Estonia could be determined by our capabilities. Our attitude towards the control of the external borders is also very different from that of Germany. When you spoke to Chancellor Merkeel about the migration crisis and found the common language in the word, have you withdrawn from your previous positions and Estonian official policies, spouted him, or have you been spouting the Estonian public so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U78	Thank you. Check out the government communication bureau's report on the meeting. From there you will understand quite precisely what was said and how much was said and what were the views. In fact, we talked most about security issues at all. We talked about the goals of Estonia and Germany at the Warsaw Summit, which will take place in the coming summer. We were talking about Ukraine. We also talked about energy security, which I raised. We were indeed talking about migration. On this point, the similarity of our positions is mainly that we both believe that Europe must deal with this crisis together. We also believe that there is a need to strengthen controls at the external borders of the European Union and, above all, to address the root causes of the crisis, including the achievement of peace in Syria, which, I admit, is not an easy task, but the European Union must also continue to support the countries to which war refugees have first moved (Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey). These are the main issues where I believe that our views are quite similar. Looking at the situation in the sense of the migration crisis between Estonia and Germany, not in the context of European policies, this situation is very, very different. It is important to understand that the leaders of other countries have different views in certain nuances of their domestic policy issues. However, there are quite a number of similar points of view on issues concerning the European level, as I have just said.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U79	Thank you. Question Time is over. Thank you, members of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 3rd working week session of the 3rd plenary session on Wednesday. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U81	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to hand over, on behalf of the Central Party Group, the draft law amending the Law on district heating and the Law on Apartment Ownership and Housing Cooperatives. The development of this draft was due to the need to clarify the problems of disrupting the heat supply of apartment buildings. This problem started during the last economic crisis, when there were more cases in which some debtors cut off the thermal supply of the building by the heat company based on the principle that the owners of the apartment are jointly responsible for the breach of the contract for the purchase and sale of heat. The then regulation of the district heating law allowed heating equipment to be discontinued at seven days' notice. In 2010, the Act amending the Law on district heating and social welfare was adopted, which introduced that the heat supply needed to heat the dwelling can be interrupted from 1 October to 30 April only after 90 days have elapsed since the notification of the debt sent by the thermal company. However, the amendment has not served its purpose. So this year, Kohtla-Järve has created a situation where heating energy suppliers have left cold people who have paid for heating properly. The reason is that the experience is not only enjoyed by debtors but also by those who have not fulfilled their obligations. The purpose of the draft is to ensure that the loss of heat supply does not jeopardise the ownership of the owners of the apartments who have paid their bills in good time and have fulfilled all their obligations to the heat company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U82	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U83	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee decided unanimously to initiate the draft law amending the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. According to the draft, the minutes of the Commission's sitting must summarise the progress of the Commission's sitting and the evolution of the decisions and positions adopted. The views of the people who took the floor should be referred in a roll-call manner and the results of the voting in the minutes should also be recorded in a roll-call manner. In addition, the draft specifies the entry into force of the Riigikogu decision. The list of draft decisions of the Riigikogu to be discussed at one reading will also be supplemented, including the draft amendments for the exchange of members or alternates of the special, investigative or problem committee of the Riigikogu, because it is not practical or necessary to discuss these drafts at several readings, but the exchange of members could go faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U84	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U85	Honorable Chairman! Allow me to hand over to you an enquiry from the 16 members of the Central Party Group to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. The inquiry concerns the use of plant protection products and their potential impact on the welfare of bees. The European Parliament resolution on the situation of beekeeping recognises that 84% of plant species and 76% of food produced by us depend on pollination carried out by bees. It is estimated that the yield from pollination in beekeeping under Estonian conditions is about ten times higher than the monetary value of a male bee, and this additional income could be 80 million euros per year on average in Estonia. At the same time, bees are indicators of environmental status. Being important pollinators of wild plant species, they contribute to maintaining the balance of natural plant communities. However, the high and often unreasonable use of pesticides has become an important source of pollution. There are five questions in the question. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U86	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U87	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, 14 On behalf of a member of the Central Party Group, I will address an inquiry to Minister Ossinovski regarding specialist medical care in Narva. This situation should be known to all of you. Narva Hospital currently has 18 specialist doctors and health insurance plans that ten of them should disappear from the city in the next three years. So if anyone's afraid of the green men coming to the eastern border, Narva's afraid that the medical staff in the green coats will disappear from the city instead. The Minister has spoken on this subject several times. On the radio, he reported that although ten species of specialised medical care disappear, the narcs do not have to go anywhere to get this help. It was clearly a paradox. Will the treatment begin via Skype or by telephone? There are six questions in the question. Let's hope it helps Narva in this pretty dark situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U88	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U89	Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu. On behalf of myself and 17 members of the Centre Party, I present an inquiry to Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. This concerns e-elections and e-voters. As you will remember, the study by Marju Lauristin revealed that since the age of 55, the proportion of people who do not use a computer is very high, 70%, and the proportion of people over 70 already stands at 82%. But the uniqueness of Estonia is that people in rural life are very active e-voting people. Among the 80-104-year-olds, there were more than 18- to 21-year-olds in the last elections. Such an interesting phenomenon. The number of e-voting has increased considerably in ten years. While only 1.9% of all voters voted on local elections in 2005, 30.5% did so last year in the Riigikogu elections. Previously, it has been assumed that the possibility of e-voting is preferred by the younger Estonian-speaking voters with good computer skills, but now the direction seems to have changed. In fact, in previous Riigikogu elections, the most enthusiastic e-voting people were older people. 25% of all e-voters were voters older than 55 years of age, followed by 19% at 45-55 years of age. On the basis of the above, it is clear that younger people are not the most active social group among e-voting. We have four questions about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U90	Thank you, Peter Ernits! I have adopted two drafts and three questions on behalf of the Bureau. We are working with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now pay attention, I have two messages. Today, after the plenary session, a four-line Tallinn Road Support Group will be set up in this Chamber. The caller is Kristjan Kõljalg. But that's not all. Just before the beginning of the session, I received another message, which I will read to you now: 'Please inform me that after the plenary session of the Riigikogu, a bee support group will be formed in the middle of this hall. " Its caller is Peter Ernits. Then don't get confused! All right, presence check, please! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U91	Honourable Riigikogu! The first item on our agenda is the third reading of the draft Act 145 amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 145 amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft act, no one opposed and no one abstained. The Act amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U92	The second reading of the draft law amending the Tobacco Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Social Affairs Committee waitress from Vilja Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U93	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, in the final months of the European Parliament's mandate, in spring 2014, the European Union adopted a new Tobacco Directive, which will be in force. a on May 20th. By then, Member States will have to introduce the requirements of the Directive into their laws. The Government of the Republic of Estonia, in particular, the Ministry of Social Affairs, as the authority responsible for the field, has decided to transpose the directive by two current draft amendments to the tobacco law. The first draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a On 26 October, it concerns, in particular, that part of the Directive which sets out additional requirements for the composition of tobacco products, as well as the requirements for the packaging of tobacco products, both in the form of packages and in the texts and other designs on which they are based. From s. a On 20 May, the packages must have a general health warning, which in Estonia means that the text 'Smoking kills' will be written on the pack, as well as additional information indicating that tobacco smoke contains over 70 substances known to cause cancer, as well as a combined health warning consisting of 14 text warnings with pictures. In addition to the new requirements for packaging, new requirements will also be introduced for the number of tobacco products in sales packages and so-called smoking zones will be banned as of 1 June 2017. So only smoking rooms with their own requirements remain. So much for reminding you of the substance of the bill. The first reading of the bill took place in m. a on December 8. By the deadline for submitting amendments on 22 December 2015, a member of the Riigikogu Vilja Toomas and the Ministry of Social Affairs submitted amendments. The openings and proposals for the draft were submitted by the Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers and the Estonian Artists' Association. The Committee on Social Affairs prepared a second reading at its regular meetings on 11, 12, 18 and 25 January and at its extraordinary session on 26 January. What was decided at the meeting on 11 January? Katrin Karolin, Head of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kärt Sõber, Head of the same department, Kersti Berendsen-Koržets, Legal Adviser to the Legal and Human Resources Department, Urmas Ambur, Managing Director of the Estonian Artists' Association, Taavi Salumets, Representative of the Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers, and Attorney-at-Law Kaupo Lepasepp. We heard first and foremost the comments of the representatives of the Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers and the Estonian Artists' Association. The representative of the Estonian Association of Tobacco Manufacturers noted that since the new EU Tobacco Products Directive will be in force on 26 May. a, then manufacturers urgently need clarity on the legal requirements affecting the production and retail of tobacco products. The main problem he pointed out was that certain provisions in the draft law amending the Tobacco Act were not compatible with the Directive, in particular the transitional period applicable to tobacco products with a higher sales volume and a different flavour than tobacco. The European Union Tobacco Products Directive states that tobacco products with a different flavour or odour than tobacco, with a sales volume exceeding 3% on the market, will benefit from a sales exemption until 20 May 2020, before it will not be subject to a sales ban. However, the current solution, proposed by the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Social Affairs, bans the sale of cigarettes with menthol added in capsules and other technical solutions immediately, i.e. on 20 May 2016. The representative of the Estonian Artists' Association approached the Commission with the question of how tobacco-producing companies can be authorised to use pictorial warnings, or photographs, and whether the authors of the photos may be entitled to claim royalties. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained to both the claimant and the members of the committee that according to § 5 (3) of the Copyright Act, the Copyright Act does not apply to legislation and administrative documents, i.e. laws, regulations, regulations, statutes, instructions, decrees and their official translations. As picture warnings are part of the directive adopted by the European Parliament, they must be seen as a text forming part of the law which has found its visual expression in the form of an image and are not subject to copyright law. The next meeting of the Commission was held on 12 January. We continued the debate on the amendments. Katrin Karolin, Head of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Kersti Berendsen-Koržets, Legal Adviser to the Legal and Human Resources Department, were again present. In addition, Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and Heidi Vessel, Head Specialist of the Department, attended the meeting. The officials of the Ministry of Finance were invited to the Commission in particular in order to clarify the installation of tax stamps. There was a question that if a new tax mark had to be placed and the combined health warning images and texts varied each year, would it be necessary to make new tobacco packages twice a year? After receiving a reply from the officials of the Ministry of Finance, the Commission decided that this was the wrong interpretation and that it could not be treated in this way. This is the subject we got off the agenda at this committee meeting. On 18 January, we discussed the amendments separately and took decisions on the amendments tabled. One proposal was dropped by the Ministry of Social Affairs. At this sitting we also took procedural decisions: we decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 27 January, we have a proposal to close the second reading and send the draft to third reading when the second reading is completed, and on 28 January to put the draft to the final vote at third reading. All these proposals were unanimously supported by the Committee on Social Affairs. The next time, we came back to the law amending the Tobacco Act at the meeting on 25 January, when the chairman of the committee proposed that amendments 1 and 5 be re-examined and voted again by the Commission when drawing up the agenda. It was mainly linked to the linguistic rewording of the word 'different' instead of 'different'. In the interests of clarity of legislation, the Commission considered this to be important and supported these changes. It was decided procedurally that the list of amendments as well as the explanatory memorandum and the text of the second reading of the draft, together with the two re-voted amendments, would be accepted. The chairman of the committee could confirm the documents at third reading. But then it came to date 26 when, in consultation with lawyers, it became clear that, in the interests of clarity of legislation, two points need to be reviewed once more, as I would point out that they appear to be contradictory or may give rise to different interpretations. The Commission therefore met exceptionally yesterday to propose that the second reading of the draft be interrupted today. As the second reading of the draft is interrupted, it is also necessary to set a new deadline for the submission of amendments, which is 5.15 p.m. on 3 February. We have a proposal to send the draft to the Bureau for a second reading on the agenda by 10 February, as well as to allow a linguistic revision of the entire text of the draft, so that we can submit the documents to the Bureau on 9 February at 5.15 p.m. When the second reading is completed, the draft could be sent to the third reading by 11 February and put to the final vote. Members of the Commission considered such a procedure to be correct, in particular because it would rule out legally different interpretations at a later stage when the law was adopted. That's how those decisions were made. I would ask the Commission to support its proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U94	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Without being a smoker, I understand that you are going by this law against the ladies who love to smoke cigarettes with menthols, as well as against the other cigarettes and cigarillos, or those who smoke bongs, who want flavoured tobacco, so that the taste of tobacco is hidden away. Let me get this straight. You're going against the menthol-loving ladies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U96	I'm not a smoker either, I don't know if menthol cigarettes are only smoked by ladies or others. I can't answer that question. But the answer to that question could be twofold. Firstly, this directive really bans cigarettes and tobacco products turned into cigarettes from 2020 which contain a substance other than tobacco, with a sales volume on the European Union market of more than 3%. For example, cigarillos, which generally do not have a sales volume of more than 3%, remain on the European Union market and can also be sold and bought in Estonia. Therefore, only products with a sales volume of more than 3% are affected by this change. For Estonian tobacco producers, this basically means menthol-flavoured products, whether or not the menthol is on the foil inside the package, in the filter, in the filter capsule or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U97	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U98	Thank you, President-in-Office. How many menthol cigarettes are sold in Estonia? That information is likely to exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U99	Thank you. The representative of the Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers who was present at the Commission called the percentage 17%, but it included capsules, cigarettes where menthol has been added to tobacco, and also those where filter paper has been soaked with menthol. I cannot describe it precisely because I am not a major tobacco-producing specialist, but so they themselves say that 17% is the proportion in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U100	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! It's a nice undertaking, smoke is known and a known carcinogen, etc. However, people who quit smoking are known to get fat at a terrible rate; they eat a lot of sweet and very calorie - rich food. What replacement activities have you planned, and how much money can people who have quit smoking go to the gym and do everything else? It's a terrible expensive thing. Smoking in absolute terms is cheaper than a gym ticket. Maybe you've thought about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U102	With this law, we do not lay down rules on how to get slim or stay slim. You don't just have to go to the gym if you want to take care of your health. You can go running in the woods. There's still money for sneakers. You can also run barefoot on the beach in the summer. We're not going to lay down rules like this. But I suggest you go to www.healthabi.ee, and you'll get help from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U103	No further questions. Thank you, Vilja Toomas! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will review them. The first is from the Social Affairs Committee; the second is from Vilja Toomast; the third is from Vilja Toomast; the fourth is from Toomast; the fourth is from Vilja Toomast; the fifth is from the Social Affairs Committee; the sixth is from Toomast; the fifth is from the Social Affairs Committee; the sixth is from Vilja Toomast. We have examined the amendments. The Social Committee's proposal is to interrupt the second reading of the draft 118. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U104	The third item is the first reading of draft law 165 on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U105	Hello, Mr President-in-Office. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We will continue in the spirit of the previous bill. Atmospheric air is now our subject, and it fully ties in with the previous issue. So this is a good set you have put together. The draft law on protection of atmosphere air is a bill that has already reached the Riigikogu once in its life, but in the meantime the Riigikogu elections were held and this bill was sent back to the Ministry of the Environment. Now I'm in front of you. The draft has been drawn up in the framework of the codification of environmental law and replaces the current law on ambient air protection. The main objective of codification is to correct the existing law, but there are also some substantive changes that have been made in the light of the experience gained with the implementation of the current law. The draft relates directly to local authorities and public authorities involved in air quality monitoring and procedures for pollutants and noise. The draft also concerns those companies that emit pollutants by their activities and create noise or odours that are likely to disturb the surrounding population. Why is the law now called the 'Atmosphere Air Protection Act' and no longer the 'Outdoor Air Protection Act'? This is due to the fact that the law covers both the protection of the ambient air and the ozone layer, as well as the provisions on climate change mitigation, i.e. its scope extends to 100 kilometres above the ground. The outer air is what we inhale, and it reaches up to 10 miles [16 km] above the ground. Let it be such an agreed limit. Compared to the current law on ambient air protection, the draft law has made the following important changes. In recent years, the smell problem in certain regions has been quite serious, as is illustrated by the increasing number of citizens' complaints. For example, in 2015, the Environmental Inspectorate received some 1600 complaints about ambient air, half of which were caused by a disturbing smell. Most of them came from Sillamäe, Ida-Virumaa. It is clear that if a company's production process creates a stench that disturbs its surroundings, the company will have to deal with it. This often also means additional investments and activities for the company, the effectiveness of which must be checked. The draft allows operators to require more substantial and detailed plans to reduce fragrances if the limit values for fragrance are exceeded. However, if there are several companies in one region whose activities give rise to an unpleasant smell, it is possible to require a common fragrance reduction scheme. However, if it is more appropriate to draw up the plans separately, the Environmental Board will assess the overall impact of the plans on the region. The draft has also clarified and improved noise regulation. Among other things, it has been established which noise the Air Protection Act deals with. This is primarily the noise emitted by industry and traffic. One important change is the simplification of the NOEC system. This is due to the fact that the links between existing norm levels and the conditions for their application were not clear. As new provisions, the draft includes the identification of noise from significant noise sources located on the territory of the local government body as a preventive action and the drawing up of a noise reduction action plan. This means, in essence, that the local authority must determine the scope of the effects of noise sources above the norm in its territory and find ways to reduce noise. The data obtained will enable the local government body to take account of the existing situation when drawing up the plan and to take appropriate noise reduction measures in the most efficient and economically advantageous way. In preparing noise maps and noise reduction action plans, it is possible to apply for support from the Environmental Investment Centre's atmospheric protection programme. According to the draft, the threshold for the authorisation of air pollution will be raised, which means that some activities (e.g. filling stations, pig, cattle or poultry, combustion plants) will also reduce the administrative burden for operators and the authorisation holder, as the obligation to apply for an air pollution permit will be replaced by an obligation to register activities if the activity of the installation exceeds the threshold capacities and quantities set out in the implementing act. Raising the threshold for air pollution is part of a package that has been planned for a longer period of time, in which a large part of small livestock establishments were already exempted from the requirement for an ambient air pollution permit by a regulation of the Minister for the Environment, which came into force last summer. It is estimated that the obligation to permit air pollution from about a thousand installations will be replaced by a simpler registration obligation. In summary, the administrative burden on the operator and the authorities is becoming more proportionate to the size of the installation and the environmental risks it poses. Thank you for your attention. I'm going to do at least two questions before the other three come. Mr Põldaru spoke in the Committee on the Environment about the concept of a very nice agglomeration in the draft. In fact, he was not quite satisfied with the definition that a densely populated area with more than 250,000 inhabitants is a agglomeration, and sometimes there may be fewer people. On this point, I can say that in the current law on ambient air protection, we believe that the wording is better, but the officials of the European Commission began to grump with us that the definition of agglomeration in the agglomeration law does not exactly correspond to that contained in the directive. That's the definition we came up with now, but we're still looking. What's the complexity here? The complexity is that this directive links the size of a agglomeration to the population density category if less than 250000 inhabitants are concerned. This can be defined by the state, but we do not have such a definition in any legislation. Let us hope that we can improve this definition. If you can't, I don't think that's the most important issue of this bill. But I was also interested in the definition. When I met another member of the Committee on the Environment and the Riigikogu in the costaares, there was a discussion about what led to the fact that, if the plan for improving air quality had to be drawn up by the Environmental Board before, the task has now been entrusted to the local government. The answer must be based on the draft explanatory memorandum, which states that the aim of the regulation is to give the local authority greater opportunities to influence the region's air quality (through planning, street maintenance and so on) and to contribute to the development and adoption of measures to improve ambient air quality. Once again, this must be done not by every municipality, but by the municipality, where the limit values or target values for pollutants are exceeded. In Estonia, we can take Tallinn for example here. The Ministry of the Environment has a uniform view of all local governments. If such a plan is needed, Tallinn can also apply for support to the Environmental Investment Centre if it is unable to cope with this with its own resources. Everything from me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U106	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister of the Environment! It's like the first volume of Truth and Justice, all this material on my desk, and there are very, very many questions. But let's have one. Paragraph 55 'Outdoor noise', paragraph 2: 'Outdoor noise is an unwanted or harmful noise caused by human activity and emitted in ambient air by stationary or mobile sources. " But this noise does not include noise from households, noise from entertainment events, noise from the working environment or noise from national defence activities, such as the movement of tanks. So what's left? Is this a response to the noise-crackers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U108	For example, in the night of downtown Tallinn, you can continue to rattle? The answer is pure law. There is a practice in legislation that definitions are competent in one context or another. When we talk about the law on atmospheric air protection and noise in ambient air, the object of this law is above all those activities that require any authorisation, whether in the context of ambient air pollution, noise or odour generation. Everything that has been recorded in these other headings is also under the protection of the law. Sorry, it's not noise production that is covered by the law, it's all governed by other laws. Looking back at the draft explanatory memorandum, it mentions the Public Health Act and others. There has not been such a situation that only this noise or pollution is important, but these other headings are no longer regulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U109	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There's no doubt that by protecting the atmosphere, we're protecting our planet Earth. But the people who live on this planet, and above all, it is necessary to protect people and mitigate these risks. § 52 of the Act refers to public information. It says here that the Ministry of the Environment provides regularly updated and sufficient information to the public through its website. Are there no more operational sources of information than the envir.ee website? Or is there another relevant law? It's important to inform people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U111	Thanks! If something is detected in our atmosphere that we have reason to deal with in exceptional circumstances when it comes to risks to human health, I think all kinds of tools will be put in place. Rather, this has meant a situation where people have an overview. It is simply, let's say, an opportunity to inform and inform under normal circumstances, not in an emergency or in some special situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U112	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I understood that the purpose of this law is to give the local government unit greater opportunities to participate in the development and adoption of measures to improve the quality of ambient air. You said in your report that there have been a lot of complaints. One example is the port of Muuga from Harjumaa. The residents of Viimsi rural municipality are disturbed that the harbour pollutes the air with chemicals and creates noise. For years, Viimsi Municipality has been involved and participated in the development and implementation of these plans and measures. What will change now for the municipality, what additional opportunities will arise when it comes to talking and taking action?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U114	Thanks! I congratulate Viimsi on her sympathy in solving smell problems. In particular, taking the example of Viimsi rural municipality and Muuga, it has to be said that in 2014 emissions were measured in Muuga port and the quality of ambient air in the impact area was assessed. As a result, smell disturbance was identified and the contribution of each company and port area as a whole to reducing smell was developed in the working group. What these scent reduction plans are going to look like once and for all, it is still becoming clear that they are being prepared. As for Muuga, there is a smart project in progress, so-called electron noses are used to detect odour disturbances more quickly and to see what should be done, where this reason is and how it should be eradicated. We hope that there will be real solutions to this problem over the years. Does that make this problem go away? I'm a realist, and I don't think so. It can be alleviated so that it can be better tolerated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U115	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U116	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Mr Ernits' noise list excluded things such as ultrasound and low - frequency sound, up to 20 hertz and over 30,000 hertz. These frequencies produce biological and chemical abnormalities, heart rate below 10 hertz, etc. They are extremely dangerous to health. Railroads and stuff like that create low-frequency vibrations and ultrasound, where there are generators, it happens all the time. If such noise leaks are detected, what does the law say, what must be done and how much authority has to do to close or prescribe such an institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U117	Thanks! I improvise on life experience. I think this is a public health issue. Certainly the minister, perhaps the former Minister of Social Affairs, or the current minister, has given some kind of implementing act on what should then happen. Perhaps the Health Board is the institution that can react first. But like I said, I improvised.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U118	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U119	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! The health department's only working on the indoor air. But I have a question about smells. The smell is in many ways subjective, but it also has objective parameters, such as the amount of volatile particles in one cubic metre of air. That's how it's measured. But very often, there is a situation where the number of particles is fully compliant or even below the norm, but you can still smell it. If you ask a man if you can smell it, he's got a nose and he says it smells like it, sucker. How do you intend to solve situations where the objective indicator, the number of particles, is normal, but the smell still disturbs people? Are you going to set any other criteria to measure the smell?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U120	Thanks! Indeed, there are two sides: it is possible to measure the presence of some chemical compounds, but on the other hand there is also an expert group. Surely such a situation would not be nice if it were to occur, but it is unlikely that there would be any odour disturbance in all days of the year, i.e. in the usual year 365 days and in the surplus year 366 days. Their presence must be accepted to some extent. I think that there is no better solution than the same Article 70, which provides that if the situation is still unsatisfactory and the fragrance is present in the air, then we must contribute to the reduction plan and see what else can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U121	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U122	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I'll come back to the noise, but the paragraph is a little bit second to § 60. It says night noise starts at 23:00, according to the night noise indicator. But the law of law says the night starts at 10:00 a.m. and lasts until 6:00 a.m. If this has been pointed out, the explanatory memorandum states that the draft is in line with Directive 2002/49/EC. What is it now? Is the law on law enforcement to be aligned with the Euro Directive 2002/49/EC? Or what about this stuff, this stuff earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U123	Thanks! I can't answer that question by improvising right now, either, but I think we need to find that answer. Perhaps there are people here who can tell us how the conflict or consistency between these two laws is. I have an observation team here from the Ministry of the Environment. But I assume you all want to protect the atmosphere, and the first reading of this bill will be terminated. Between the first and second readings, we will make this clear in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U124	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When I read the explanatory memorandum to the bill, I found a lot of positive sentences here. One of them argues that the draft law should certainly reduce the current internal and external overregulation. Would you open up a positive line like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U126	Yes, I will look again at my cheater and bring out the last paragraph of the speech: the air pollution permit obligation will be replaced by a simpler registration obligation for about a thousand installations. Perhaps before, air pollution was needed, for example, in a small piggytail, canal, gas station, whatever. Now it says that there is no need to go through this permit procedure and the application procedure. We need to be informed, we need to register our activities, and then the authorities know that this kind of thing is going to happen legally. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U127	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U128	Thank you. Dear Minister, It's a pretty thick and powerful law. The 55.61 deal with noise levels, which were already discussed by the questioners. However, it is very difficult to find out from here how it is possible to identify the sources or sources of noise in ambient air and who is most responsible for this noise. I'll give you an example. Much has been said about Tallinn nightclubs. How is it possible to identify in the active club area which club is making more noise and is more guilty of causing noise in the air? The same is true of plants in controlling airborne pollution. How can it be established that a sample taken from the air shows that it is the factory that is responsible, but the other plant next door with the same chimney is not to blame?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U129	Thanks! As far as chimneys are concerned, emissions can be measured separately and viewed as their interaction. If we come to the issue of old-town bars, I don't think we often need a machine, because the reasons may be obvious. It's a question of what to do with that. Is there a need for some kind of measurement, or is there some easier way to correct the situation? I have also followed these debates with one eye in the last ten years, and I think that if there is no other reasonable solution, the local authorities will have the opportunity to regulate this problem by means of a trading permit and opening hours. Often the science of precision doesn't get anywhere, the human aspect has to help.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U130	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, good minister. That's the kind of thing I wanted to ask you. Mendeleyev's table is extremely long, the amount of compounds is infinite. How can we determine things that we do not have the ability to determine? In other parts of the world, for example, some compounds are banned, but we don't because we don't have tools, chemicals, or methods to determine them. How many people have to be, I'm sorry for the expression! The mature ones to start paying attention, why are there many people in a certain area with puffy, bald, heart sick, or other problems? According to which metrum do you assume the level of noise or air pollution? What has to happen so that you start paying attention to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U132	Thank you. The death criteria are not set out in any legislation. I can give a general answer with the following content: My predecessors certainly contributed and I also contribute to improving the ability of the Environmental Research Centre, as well as other research institutions, to identify as many pollutants as possible with the highest possible sensitivity. As far as regulations are concerned, these most important compounds are mentioned in the context of the European Union, they are then carcinogens or whatever the reason for this requirement, which must be monitored in any case. They do not concern the entire Mendeleyev table. There will certainly be cases in the future that there must be a separate focus on what could be the cause of one thing or another, such as damage to health, and whether there could be a causal link.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U133	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U134	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! This is a necessary and nice law, which will probably also provide a mandate to punish those companies that spoil air with noise or smell. But is there going to be a way to punish a private person or a natural person? There are quite a lot of people who, for example, don't make noise on Monday morning, don't bother anyone, but smell disgusting, releasing aldehydes and ketones from the alcohol breakdown products, which are not only very bad smells, but are also completely toxic, and the concentration of which can be fully measured. Can individuals also be punished for smelling harmful air quality?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U135	Thanks! In the context of the Atmosphere Air Protection Act, the citizen is not expected to have an air pollution permit or registration with the relevant authority. All that concerns the liability of natural persons is contained in Chapter 9 of this bill, entitled 'Acceptance', as from § 228. We can see from there that there are different penalties for natural and legal persons based on misdemeanour.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U136	Thank you, Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The rapporteur for the Environment Committee is Mati Raidma. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U137	Honourable Chairman! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on 18 January. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, Eda Pärtel, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Heidi Koger, Head of the Ambient Air Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Annika Konovalov, Head of the Climate and Radiation Department also participated in the Commission's discussion. Mr Pomerants, Minister for the Environment, and Mr Heidi Koger, Head of the Department of Ambient Air of the Ministry of the Environment, presented the draft and answered questions from the members of the Commission. During the meeting it was clarified that this was a major draft which would organise standards for atmospheric air protection, which would be sometimes restructured, and harmonise permit handling and reporting. The draft law has taken into account existing practice, as well as the need to bring it into line with a number of directives. If the bill enters into force as a law, it will replace the current law on ambient air protection. During the discussion we learned that the bicycle was reinvented: the previous name of the law on ambient air protection was the law on atmospheric air protection, and now that name is restored. The Commission raised many of the same questions about noise and the role of local government, which were also discussed in this debate with the Minister. Most of the answers have already sounded in this hall today. In local government planning, noise issues also need to be addressed. If local authorities identify and disclose significant noise sources in their area, this will certainly support the people who set their plans, since when a person moves, he already knows which noise sources are in the area, he does not have to be surprised later. We also discussed the issue of smell. Farmers' problems are also important here. We received a clear signal from the Ministry of the Environment that the problem will be dealt with further and negotiations with farmers will continue. As regards monitoring, we learned that the national monitoring stations that are in Estonia are the result of the European Commission's directive. There are nine of these stations in Estonia: there are three stations in Tallinn (in Õismäe, Kopli and Liivalaia street), and there are stations in Tartu, Kohtla-Järve, Narva and Sillamäe. There was also a small debate on the various layers of the atmosphere. We learned that air quality issues specifically concern the troposphere. When we talk about the stratosphere, 90% of the ozone, the so-called ozone layer, is in the stratosphere, and so it is directly affected by this draft climate policy. The law also mentions the mesosphere. In the Commission's view, this remained a little open. We hope that, in the course of the next discussions, we will clarify the role of the mesosphere in this law. After discussions, the Commission decided to propose to send a draft 165 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 27 January 2016 (consensually), to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped (also consensually) and to propose that the deadline for submitting 165 amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 10 February 2016 (also consensually). Finally, it was decided to appoint the speaker to act as rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-27_U138	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 165. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 165 amendments. 10 February at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 3.04 p.m.
