ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, have a nice working day! Question Time. We're gonna do a presence check. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu in the plenary Chamber. Since there is still an active desire to ask in Question Time and ten questioners registered yesterday, you have to accept the situation that you can submit an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U2	The first question is for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, who is here today with Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants and Minister of Culture Indrek Saare. The question is asked by Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! We know that the European Union and Turkey are trying to come up with an agreement between themselves to resolve the migration crisis. We don't exactly know the terms of the deal, but there's been two major points. One is that the European Union is paying Turkey between three and seven billion euros to keep the borders, i.e. to prevent migrants from coming to Europe. Another major condition is that one, or illegally arrived, will be returned to Turkey, and for each Syrian or alleged Syrian returned, one Syrian will come legally to the European Union. I have this question: what does such an agreement mean, if it is really confirmed, for Estonia? Above all, probably the financial cost when we are talking about such a large amount of money. Does this also entail any additional obligations for us to accept migrants, and does Estonia support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U4	Thank you. Time's up. There's one more question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U5	Thank you. This issue was discussed in depth in the Committee on European Union Affairs on Monday. Your party associates were also present and actively participated in the debate, so it is certainly possible to ask them about all the details of the agreement. But in the limited time frame we have here today, I'd like to repeat a few basic things. Firstly, we know that there is Turkey between Syria and the European Union, and a very large number of people decide to enter Europe precisely that way. Assuming that we want to control migration flows and offer people forced to leave their homes because of war, a life worth living as close to home as possible, we need to find a common agreement with Turkey so that the migratory pressure on Europe is significantly reduced. That is why the leaders of the European Union have already discussed these issues several times with the Turkish Prime Minister, and that is why we want to reach final agreements in Brussels in the second half of this week. You are right when you say that the main part of the agreement concerns Turkey's commitment to take back all war refugees who have gone illegally to Greece and to offer them a chance to live in Turkey. It is also true that the European Union, for its part, is committed to providing financial support for the livelihood of people in Turkey in 2018, in addition to the amounts already agreed, I am thinking of the livelihood of refugees. This is, I believe, an agreement that is perfectly feasible and acceptable to the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U6	Martin Helme, an additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U7	Thank you very much. There's a big argument here. The Turks claim that most of those who have crossed illegally are not Syrians. The Turks have said that they imagine a maximum of a few to a few dozen thousand people being taken back. At the same time, we know that there are over one hundred thousand people that Europe would like to send back. It's an argument. Another important point, I hoped that you might mention it yourself, is that the Turkish people are demanding visa liberalisation with the European Union this summer. In principle, the government supports this agreement, as we have learned in the EUAK. Do you really support this agreement even if visa liberalisation is concluded between the European Union and Turkey? What do you say that the Turks and Europeans have completely different data on the number of readmission agreements?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U8	Thank you. Visa freedom with Turkey, Georgia and Ukraine has been supported by the Government of the Republic for a long time. In all these cases, there is only one main argument: the criteria must be met. If they are fulfilled, there should be no emotional failures or subjective reasons either for Turkey, Ukraine or Georgia for not granting these countries a visa waiver. Turkey is not asking the European Council to abandon the conditions, but to speed up the procedures. If the conditions remain valid, I personally see nothing wrong with speeding up procedures, rather the other way round. The assumption is, of course, that Turkey, for its part, will do everything it needs to do properly. The second part of your question concerned the number of people to be returned. Let us be honest, it is not possible to say this precisely right now, because the logic of the agreement is such that from some point in time all the people who come across the sea will be sent back. So the number of returnees depends on the number of people coming across the sea. If we know that these people are wanted to introduce a lifelong ban on entry into the European Union when they come illegally, then it is, I believe, a very strong deterrent. Obviously, people would not opt for a life-threatening and likely return trip and a lifetime ban, but would do everything in their own right to find living conditions in Turkey or to have a chance of legal migration.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U9	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U10	Thank you. Prime Minister! The agreement or agreement between Turkey and the European Union, which you approved in your interviews, also concerns Erdogan's attitude towards the deaf. But it's not very friendly. It's, I'd say, pretty military. What is Estonia's official position on relations between Turkey and the Kurds? I can't ask who we're in favour of, but still, how do we feel? How do we describe Erdogan's policy towards the deaf?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U11	Thank you. As regards the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, not only have I approved it in my interviews, but the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs has approved the general principles of the agreement. The details of the agreement will be discussed at tomorrow's and the day after tomorrow's Council. In the debate that we had with the Turkish Prime Minister, we did not deal so much with relations between Turkey and the Kurdish people, as we dealt with a number of issues which are not unambiguously positive in relations between the two parties. For example, many of the leaders of the European Union pointed out that when we agree on specific matters, we cannot fail to mention the concerns that we have, for example, for media freedom. It is quite natural that when meeting partners, allies, like Turkey, are undoubtedly, both to Estonia and the European Union, we will talk about these topics, which are positive, but also mention, if necessary, those things that are either divided or seen as a tar drop in the honey pot.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U12	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U13	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, In 2002, the Estonian Defence League and the Kistler-Ritso Estonian Foundation concluded an agreement whereby the Defence League granted the right of use for 50 years to the plot, where an important museum of occupation was built. We have all, especially the people who have been touched very closely by the occupation, respected, admired and proud of the activities of this museum, because the mission is already expressed in the name of the museum. I know this is a private museum, and the Minister of Culture does not give the museum a name or content. But as your Minister of Culture, can you confirm and tell me that the mission of this museum will continue despite the forthcoming change of name?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U15	Thank you for your question. As you rightly said, this is a private museum, so the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia, the Tallinn City Council or some other elected collections cannot name it. It's a museum privilege. I've seen what the museum management and the museum council are planning. I fully agree with the principle that, just as time is changing around us, museums must also change and museums must also become more perfect. The resources of the stories that museums tell have always changed in time. I have no reason to suspect that the museum, which has carried out its mission with dignity so far, does not understand what is happening around us in society. The desire to double the exhibition area of the museum, including the use of the KGB cellars on Pagar Street, will certainly help to tell this story even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U16	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Has the Estonian state in the form of the Ministry of Culture supported the museum's activities so far? Has the support been regular? What amount of money? Just tell me the order of magnitude of support that has been available over the years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U18	Thank you! Yes, since the beginning, i.e. since the establishment of the museum, the state has allocated money for operating grants, as well as for many other private museums. It must be said, however, that this is a very large investment brought to Estonia by a private initiative. If I remember correctly, the initial investment that was invested in building this house was over 2.5 million euros. About 1.5 million investments are now planned during the renewals and expositions, of which a donation of around 270000 euros has already been made. This is probably one of the biggest contributions and perhaps even the biggest contribution of this year's private sector directly to Estonian culture. The Ministry, for its part, last year as well as this year, supports activities with EUR 135515. Of course, seeing that the museum wants to expand its exposure further, we realize that the support of the ministry should not shrink throughout this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U19	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U20	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I'm sure you've been following the debate in the media on this subject. Not only have freedom fighters spoken, but also our good colleague Igor Gräzin, who in his article says: 'The museum, which throws away its most important exhibit, its name, does not deserve the name of the museum. " From a relatively empty point of view, great trouble has been born in society, I tell you the truth. Do you see any way to reconcile the various parties, bring them together at one table? Who's supposed to do that? Couldn't it be born on the initiative of your ministry before it expands into an even bigger problem that divides society?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U21	Yes, I think that is the very symbolic meaning of this whole debate. We are talking about a free country and a free society. In doing so, everyone has the right to express their views freely. Although I do not share some opinions, I am prepared to stand by the fact that people have the right to express their opinions. I would like to remind you here that the museum has had several names in its history, a name that has already changed several times. I recall what Olga Kistler-Ritso's daughter has said. He wrote: "My mother wanted to turn the museum into a defender of Estonian freedom, which means that it must have a social influence. The aim of freedom is to help people understand that freedom is not self-evident, but must be protected. " We could also try to reach out to all those who are worried that the change in the name of the Museum of Occupation will result in the desire of the person who was the soul, founder and sponsor of the museum from its original purpose of abstinence. It is certainly worth reading the speeches of President Lennart Meri, both when laying the cornerstone of this museum and when opening it. He spoke very nicely and very clearly, justifying at the time that we should not underestimate the dangers of freedom today. We can think of the word "ocupation" as something that never comes back. But coming back is very easy if we forget what the role of Parliament is, which is the role of the public and what attitudes surround us in today's world and what tendencies are around us. Closed, jealously looking into the past, and passionate attitudes are very vigorous in raising their heads. In doing so, we need to reflect a little more on the relationship between cause and effect, not just on one memorial, because the memorial will be our Republic's anniversary anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U22	Thank you, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U23	The question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas is asked by Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U24	Dear Taavi in the garment! Last week, on Thursday of last week, a meeting of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank took place. It decided to reduce the deposit interest rate by 10 basis points, with the deposit rate now at 0.4%. This means that commercial banks have to pay for depositing money with the European Central Bank. Have you ever wondered what impact a further reduction in the already negative interest rate could have on the interest rates of Estonian commercial banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U25	Thank you for that question. We know that central banks are independent in their decisions, but, of course, as Prime Minister, I can not judge central bank decisions to a certain extent, but to comment on their effects and to explain to people what the impact of one or the other decision is. The logic of the central bank's interest reduction is the economic stimulus and, of course, it also has an incentive effect on the Estonian economy. The price of money will be made cheaper, affecting both Estonian companies and Estonian private individuals, households. I believe that all those who have taken housing loans have also felt themselves that if the euribor has fallen from excellence in 2008, when it was about 5.5%, now close to 0.15, it naturally means that the cost of housing loans for all people in Estonia has decreased to the same extent. This, in turn, has, of course, provided additional opportunities for acquiring housing. It also has a positive impact on the economy through companies, as well as on corporate credit opportunities, of course. Moreover, if we look at the first days after this specific decision, which is actually one decision in a longer series, it has affected, for example, the course of the euro against the dollar. The euro has fallen against the dollar, which means that companies exporting from Europe to the US are in a better competitive position.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U26	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U27	Prime Minister! You may be satisfied with the current situation of home borrowers, but savers are worried. The first large bank operating in Estonia has already announced that it is considering setting negative interest rates on the deposits of large and medium-sized companies. So far, at least private deposits have been saved from negative interest rates. But there are already countries in Europe that do not do it anymore. For example, in Switzerland, a negative interest rate is also imposed on private customers. In Estonia, it has always been said that people are doing well, that deposits have reached very large amounts of deposits of more than 6 billion euros. How fair and likely do you consider it to be to set a negative interest rate on household deposits in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U28	Thank you. This should actually be asked by the Governor of Eesti Pank, who has a more immediate overview of the opportunities and potential moves of commercial banks. As you well know, the government does not impose interest on loans or deposits in commercial banks. However, you are right when you say that the volume of deposits of Estonian people, both households and companies, has increased significantly, it has almost doubled compared to the level of the booming period. It is clear that, if deposit interest rates have already become very low, we are not talking about negative interest rates so far, except really for some of the companies that one bank has said so far, but we are still talking about really very low interest rates, then, in principle, individuals may also naturally have an interest in keeping their longer-term savings in other asset classes. Could invest using other means to ensure that the absolute volume of savings does not decrease or stagnate but rather grow. Of course, if we appreciate the value of assets or the value of money, then it must be known that there has been a deflationary development in Estonia for some time, which in turn puts this picture in a better context. In this way, we can say that the impact of investments will in principle stimulate the economy. I am convinced that there are companies whose investment is already in the fifth place in the European Union in terms of GDP. But I see that, in a situation where the price of deposits in the bank has fallen considerably, there is considerable potential for companies to invest in machinery and equipment instead.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U29	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U30	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! The influence of the decisions of the central bank is clearly felt by the people and businesses of Estonia. And unfortunately, quantitative relaxation and negative interest rates have not really stimulated the economy, nor have they improved the deflationary situation, or inflation. This means that not all radical and unprecedented moves made in recent years have produced the result that has been expected of them or announced. I have such a question. As we all understand your answers, Estonia does not really have the opportunity to influence these decisions. Do you sometimes not feel at your brightest moments that it would be better if Estonia still had such decisions and instruments?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U31	Thank you. First of all, as Head of Government, I cannot defend or judge decisions taken by an independent central bank. But as an economic person, I can open and explain these issues to you and to the people of Estonia a little. The objective declared by the central bank is indeed to keep inflation levels close to, but not above, 2%. It is a 'performance indicator' on the basis of which monetary policy is pursued. If we look at why inflation has been significantly lower and why inflation is expected to be only 0.1% for the euro area this year, then the price of oil has been a very strong influence. This has affected all fuel prices, which are in turn a significant input for the whole economy. So if you appreciate the activities of the central banks, I suggest you put things in context and see what effect would have been if the central banks had not gone along with the relaxation of monetary policy. As far as Estonia's independent monetary policy is concerned, I would remind you that we have never had such a great role as a member of the euro area. Estonia has never had a completely independent monetary policy since the coming of the Estonian kroon; the kroon was initially connected to the German mark, later to the euro. The Estonian state, Eesti Pank, did not conduct an independent monetary policy at the time. Now that the Governor of Eesti Pank is the equal representative of one euro area country at the table in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, we have much greater opportunities to participate in European monetary policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U32	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U33	And now Arno Bridge asks and answers the Environment Minister Marko Pomerants. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Recently, rural people have been seriously discussing the economic activities of inland waters protection zones, especially in view of the authorisation of grazing in these areas. These problems have also been discussed with both beef and sheep farmers in the Committee on Rural Affairs. How would you see it dealt with in water laws in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U35	Thank you, dear Võrumaa People's Envoy! Here I am pleased to welcome Uibo Salmet Võru, who will be 90 today and will be very politically interested! But now the possibility of grazing inland waters in protected zones. Indeed, as you rightly pointed out, last week the Committee on Rural Affairs discussed this issue with the people of the beef farmers' association. The right conclusions were reached, which reads as follows: the interests of livestock farmers and the protection of the environment must be taken into account. And that's what we can build on. We certainly understand the interest of livestock farmers in accessing water for animals, perhaps the presence of additional fodder land. A separate question, though, is how much meat this ten - foot [10 m] stream adds, although they may be able to answer it. Two things should be highlighted from an environmental point of view. First of all, it is every man's right to move on the shores of water. Secondly, with regard to the pollution of small water bodies, we will be discussing on 23 March this month when we are planning to bring livestock farmers around the common table to the Ministry of the Environment and to move forward in such a way that we can, as the Committee on Rural Affairs has wisely stated, take account of the interests and environmental aspects of livestock farmers and reach out to the point where we can change the Water Law. But as Minister of the Environment, I'm still standing up for the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U36	It was such a good answer that no one asked for anything else. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U37	Minister of Culture Indrek Saare is asked a question by Monika Haukanõm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The design of sport policy is known to be in your area of administration, where the separate sports department also operates in its best way, and they also have the necessary competence. It is known, however, that the sport of people with special needs or people with disabilities is to be curated by the Ministry of Social Affairs, and even the Ministry of Welfare, in particular, where there is no competence required for the development of sport, and, of course, this cannot be expected from it. I tried to find a vision in the basic document of Estonian sports policy until 2030, where we are going in this sport for people with special needs, but I did not find the answer. All I found was that it should be accessible and inclusive. That is why my question is whether you consider it reasonable that two ministries are involved in sport, it is financed by two ministries and, in fact, it is still the promotion of sport for people with special needs in relation to orphanhood.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U39	Thank you. Indeed, as you rightly pointed out, curating sport for people with special needs is, unfortunately, the responsibility of the Minister for Social Protection. That is why I am certainly not competent to answer all the questions in this area. However, the document adopted by the Riigikogu, the same respectable body, says 'The fundamentals of sport policy until 2030', among other things, that the organisation of sport offers activities that are open and attractive to all and helps to establish contacts, regardless of the social background, age, gender, nationality and physical and mental capacity of people. Basically, practical activities are actually organised by the Estonian Paralympic Committee, which coordinates sporting activities through all people with special needs and through its members and people with special needs. The funder is the Ministry of Social Affairs and through the Gambling Tax Board, the umbrella organisations for disability sports are regularly supported. The main partners are the Estonian Paralympic Committee, the Estonian Association of Special Olympics and the Estonian Society of Invasport. In addition, the Gambling Tax Board also supports other organisations promoting mobility among people with disabilities on a project basis. This is how it has become that a very large part of the practical work has been delegated, but this practice also works for other sports, so the role of the Estonian Olympic Committee in shaping the whole sport life is significant. This means that the so-called third sector in the form of a non-profit organisation, an umbrella organisation, has taken on a very large part of the responsibility for shaping the whole sport policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U40	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U41	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'll take another subject, it goes into the medal money business. If an athlete with special needs achieves a medal at, for example, the Olympic Games for people with special needs, the World Championship or even the European Championship, it is good practice that the government rewards the medal winner and the coach with support. Unfortunately, however, the situation is that the support paid to people with special needs is very many times, considerably lower. And I understand that, it's understandable. But at the same time, the coaches ask if their work is less valuable. Why does the state still value sport and the results of people with special needs in this way, especially the coach's contribution, so unequally?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U42	Thank you. I think it is very good that at a time like this, when the Estonian Olympic Committee elects a new president, this issue has come to the public. I hope that you will also ask the candidates for the presidency of the ECEC. But indeed, in November 2013, when the government agreed at the cabinet session that the reward of athletes and their trainers will be carried out from 2014 through the Estonian Olympic Committee, the award of people with disabilities was also discussed. On that occasion, it was agreed that the Estonian Paralympic Committee was the body that rewarded the special needs athletes and their trainers who had successfully participated in the title competitions since 2014. Now we should ask if the prize money is fair. As I have already said, the debate on this is very welcome. But, by the way, as far as practice is concerned, the recognition of the best athletes takes place together with other athletes at the end of the year when the best paralympic male and female athlete of the year is chosen, and awards are also awarded at the end of the year at the star gala of the Year of Sports.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U44	Question to Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U45	Thank you! Honourable Minister! Most pesticide residues are among nerve toxins, carcinogens and mutagens. They're dangerous to all living things. In the last dozen years, we have had a double increase in the amount of pesticides we have introduced. In groundwater taken from monitoring points during the last four years, pesticide residues have been found in one third of the points. The limit was exceeded in almost a quarter of the monitoring points. Mr. Secretary, what do you do? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U46	Thanks for the question! If you knew a good answer, you'd be quick to answer. But you can ask what I've done for myself. Indeed, as you mentioned, monitoring data show that the situation with the use of plant protection products is worrying. It may not have anything to do with infringements, farmers do everything properly, but residues of plant protection products have simply been in groundwater over the years. Since the safe use of plant protection products and their monitoring are within the remit of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, I wrote to my colleague Urmas Kruus at the end of last year that the situation is worrying and now we should look at how to find measures to improve it. As Minister for the Environment, I can continue activities that will help make the monitoring picture even more complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U47	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U48	Thank you! Mr. Minister! The path of pesticide residues to groundwater and, for example, to bee begins with a number of activities and very different players, such as farmers, road and railroad caretakers, garden designers or other beauty creators. For example, glyphosate is relatively safe, so it will probably be used too lightly. Minister, should we tighten up the procedures for the use of pesticides and improve monitoring in this regard, including the Environmental Inspectorate? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U49	Thanks! A point of discussion that was either to be included or not from you. We have work to do, but if life needs to be promoted, let us see what can be done in cooperation with the current supervisor. As for glyphosate, which you mentioned, it is such a sad story that there is no overview of how it is used in the country. We know how much this should be on the market, but there is no understanding of how it is used in agriculture and, let's say, not in agriculture, especially in combating weeds on roads and railways. At this point, I am not very happy to say that we do not now have a good knowledge of where and how to better regulate the use of glyphosate, in particular, so that it does not reach groundwater. But we'll probably get smarter in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U50	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U51	The next question is asked by Mart Helme to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U52	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Prime Minister! You have expressed several concerns about the impact of own-initiative gangs on our security. Now, because of the case of beating up Tartu's family father, it has become clear that street violence is a pretty serious problem. People get beaten to death, people get beaten to pieces, people get kidnapped. We have two competing beating capitals, Pärnu and Tartu. What's the government's plan to get street violence under control? Is there a strategic long-term plan, and what are the tactical short-term activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U53	Thank you. Indeed, I can't imagine how people's safety can be helped by the movement in cities of unsolicited gangs led by people with a predominantly criminal past. I see the danger that their aggressive mindset and the use of words can provoke conflicts rather than prevent them. So I continue to believe that the formation of self-proclaimed gangs under the leadership of people with a fairly questionable past will not increase the security of the Estonian people, but reduce it. As far as anti-personal crimes are concerned, wherever in Estonia, I consider it extremely necessary to emphasise two things. First of all, each of us who detect such crimes has not only an opportunity, but an obligation to inform the police immediately. In the case you referred to, one of the eyewitnesses called the police immediately. As a result, the first suspects were caught exactly five minutes after the call. It wouldn't have been possible if the police hadn't called right away. The second thing I want to emphasise is that the police must take all crimes against individuals exceptionally seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U54	Mart Helme, please have an additional question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U55	Thank you. Of course, I didn't get an answer about the government's plan. I don't need to be taught, I've been fighting a lot in my life for myself and for people on the street. So the courage of the citizen is certainly very important, but in this case Tartu's family father was beaten up because he showed courage to the citizen. In small places it is especially well known who belong to such own-initiative street gangs. Unfortunately, it is also known that they are terrorizing their fellow citizens for a long time. Unfortunately, neither the state nor the police can guarantee order in such small places as Paide or Türi. My question is still this: what is the government's plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U56	Thank you. I'll say it again. There is no way that people's sense of security will be enhanced by moving on the streets that are largely run by people with a criminal past. On the contrary, it creates more conflict. Also in the specific case of Tartu, to which you refer, the gang that vandalized there, according to the police, and the family father went to order, is just as deplorable in my view as the self-initiative patrols you mentioned. In my eyes, this vandalizing gang showed unacceptable bravery and extreme cynicism, breaking out in the heart of one of Estonia's major cities. It is very appropriate that the police reacted promptly and decisively. It is true that the police themselves have admitted that this crime could have been dealt with even more quickly. I stress, in the process, not in response to a particular challenge. During the procedure, the police are also likely to have made mistakes. But in my view, however, it is very important that, three days after the case, criminals, in this case people suspected of a crime, were immediately brought to justice. I am absolutely sure that this will also help to ensure that criminals are punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U57	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U58	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! Try to come with us now, not to read your points. We haven't called any patrols yet. We said that you have expressed concern about the activities of the own-initiative gangs, and we would point out that these gangs exist. Indeed, they are clearly with the criminal past and the police do not react or react completely inadequately to them. In the case of Tartu, too, the police's reaction was to capture them and then let them walk. But that's the real reason for the problem in all the places where gangs terrorize citizens. Maybe there's gonna be a challenge, but then they're gonna let the gang members go right away. Could the increase in security be due to the fact that over 600 people have been made redundant in recent years from the Police and Border Guard Board and the police simply do not have the strength to deal with the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U59	Thank you. Indeed, it has been said by the police that one of the two people captured on a specific crime day, if you used your wording, should not have been allowed out for the weekend. True, by now, both who actually participated in the beating and for whom it is possible not only to initiate criminal proceedings, but also to initiate criminal proceedings. So it can really be said that the police thought he was wrong about the procedures by releasing one of the beaters for the weekend, but at least they were able to make up for the mistake quickly in the next few days and get that person back. Now, as I said, all kinds of gangs that disturb people's peace, who are violent, who break and repel, are deplorable. All the more so, as a member of the Riigikogu, I would like you to think very well about whether you still want to encourage some of these gangs, in this case Odin soldiers, for example by participating in the Odin soldiers' Facebook group, encouraging them with their political statements. I urge you to seriously consider whether this is wise. All kinds of self-initiative gangs who may be prone to violence should not find our understanding. Protecting the order must be entrusted to the Estonian police.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U60	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U61	The next question is for Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U62	Mr. Minister! The Riigikogu's plenary session received last week, when the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act was discussed, reliable information that about 200 conservation areas protection rules are currently in force in Estonia, which are essentially from Soviet times and require renewal. Apparently, their permeable feature is that it is not yet known that the private ownership of the land has been restored in Estonia and the ownership reform has taken place. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the previous term, informed us that during his time a little less than 30 rules for nature reserves were updated. How has this area progressed during your year of work? Can you report any achievements?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U63	Before the minister answers, I say to you, honourable members of the Riigikogu Mart Helme and Kalle Palling, that I would be pleased if you continued your discussion somewhere else, we could work here. Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U64	Thanks! Six protection rules have already been adopted in 2016 and a further 30 are planned to be adopted this year. This figure is approximate and depends a little bit on how we are going to debate during the disclosure process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U65	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U66	Thank you, Minister. I don't think you can answer us in this short time, which is why these things have gone so slowly. But if I were to draw any conclusion from this, at the earliest, the job could be completed in six or seven years' time, when you are no longer likely to be a minister in this area. Is there any way you can cross the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U67	Thanks! I can answer why this has happened. Two reasons. Firstly, in the meantime, there was a trial which basically suspended the procedure for protection rules for three years. Even ministers as capable as Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Mati Raidma could not bring about changes. The second reason is that there are also protected areas, on which the debate has been undisputed for a long time. And in the meantime, it's been a whole year, so no progress has been made at all. I'm not going to name the names of these protected areas on purpose right now. I can keep up the full speed and move forward without exceeding the limit speed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U68	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U69	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! About a month ago, the Environment Committee held a public debate on the Nature Conservation Act, and the nature conservation rules were one of the sharpest issues there. The Commission instructed the Ministry to come up with an analysis of the possible opening of the Nature Conservation Act. Could you give us an overview of how far you've come with this process? Is the optimistic forecast that this topic can be further discussed in a month's time at the latest realistic?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U70	Thanks! We're in the VTK stage. In the old days, it meant two different things, and now it means only one plan for development. The questions we intend to bring to the table for the debate on the Nature Conservation Act are almost together, so we can come back to the Committee on the Environment. I invite you all to vote at third reading as one member of the Riigikogu in favour of amendments to the Nature Conservation Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U72	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister for Culture! Since the Ministry of Culture participates in the management activities of the Foundation Narva Museum as a founder, you must also be aware of the state of Narva Castle and the renovation and reconstruction projects. You are also aware that the Narva people have collected over 3,000 signatures for a request to stop the implementation of one of the most aggressive reconstruction projects of recent times and to protect the heritage of Narva Castle. As far as I know, these same appeals were also handed over to you at a meeting of the Government of the Republic in Narva. Can you tell us why the opinion of both the Narva and the heritage conservation experts is ignored? Is your vision of the reconstruction of the architectural and cultural-historical value of Narva Castle compatible with that of the Narva Museum?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U74	Thank you. At least some of your information is wrong because I wasn't given anything in Narva. Well, I guess I'll just have to specify who they gave it to. But I'm aware of a problem that's raised. It is not the first time in Narva that there is a debate on public space. Like talking about the name of the museum of occupations, there are, of course, different views about this. As with museums, everyone tends to be experts when designing urban spaces. The same goes for education and many areas. Even if there are no children of our own, at least school has been attended, so that we all know how to teach children, and we are always quick to advise teachers on this subject. However, as far as Narva Castle is concerned, it is an undoubtedly very important cultural heritage. In order to preserve this heritage as up-to-date as possible and in accordance with the requirements of heritage protection and to be exhibited to develop a visitation centre that would benefit as many people as possible and enable the museum to earn its own income, as well as to revive the city of Narva's economy, an architectural competition was organised in 2015. The Architectural contest resulted in projects that are now in operation. They are divided into very many stages. If they get well-financed, mostly from European structural funds, this means an investment of approximately 10 million for the first three stages. I very much hope that this will happen because the Narva fortress is a pearl that is worth preserving and developing as a cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U75	Dmitri Dmitriev!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U76	Minister, thank you very much. Given the fact that the complex of defence architecture in Narva Jaanilinna is on our important cultural path between Europe and Russia, would it not be appropriate to send the ideas of the winning project to, for example, the UNESCO Panel of Experts and ask for their opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U77	Yeah, you can always do that. But I would not question the panel or the renowned architects who have done the projects. At this point, I would like to emphasise what modern principles of heritage protection are. They foresee that it is also important to restore Narva fort so that it is based on the principle of authenticity, i.e. the existing values must be preserved and the new one must be distinguished from the old one. The creation of modern architecture and restoration of historic urban landscapes must also avoid a pseudo-ajaol design method. If some people think that when we talk about the entire city space of Narva, it should be demolished and restored as it was in the Swedish era, it would be very brutal behaviour with our cultural heritage. It would probably not be the most economical either. That is why modern architecture proposes solutions that combine a preserved part that can be preserved with a new part that can be clearly distinguished. If a pseudo-historical perspective had been taken into account, Narva would not now have a college in Narva. There are also people in this Chamber who fought against the college building because it is said to ruin the historic Old Town. I'm glad the college is there now, it's got a lot of credit. Similarly, in Narva today, there would be no repaired beach promenade or beach building, which has also received versatile recognition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U78	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U79	There's two minutes left. Raivo Põldaru can quickly ask and the Prime Minister can respond quickly. Please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Quick question. Point 4.47 of the Government's Action Plan states: 'We provide for the formation, status, assignment, financing of municipalities, districts and municipalities... ' I understand that it could have been handed over in the course of the administrative reform, but unfortunately there are no such things. Where are they? And if you look at the deadline, it's already over in February.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U81	Thank you. As the answer can be very brief, I can say that the Cabinet has discussed all these issues. The issue of funding will also be discussed in the course of the country's budgetary strategy. We have an idea which way to go, but the question is that we also have to take into account the budgetary possibilities. Administrative reform as a whole costs tens of millions, so we have the money, but we also want to increase the revenue base of local governments in the future. But the administrative reform as a whole, and also the fact that the government has now handed over the draft law on administrative reform to Parliament, is, in my opinion, historic. Now it is no longer possible for anyone to say that this is a chorus in the song of the failure of the Estonian state. So have the strength to work on this subject for you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U82	Dear Riigikogu, reaching the tenth registered questioner is a great achievement. We thank the Prime Minister and ministers for their good work. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U83	Honourable Riigikogu! Good day to all those who have not yet met today! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. First, Thomas Vitsut will issue a bill or discuss an inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U84	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, to cover the costs of implementing the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. In particular, from 1 September, including certain functions that are currently at the prosecutor's office, the main issue is the granting of search permits and the regulation of arrests, to the courts of first and second instance. But as the state's attorney general has said in the Eesti Päevaleht, it is still unclear whether or not there is money for this, whether or not these changes are covered by the resource. The question has arisen that perhaps the deadline should be postponed. I do not agree that the regulations adopted by the legislator are treated in this way. That is why I and 16 other members of the Central Party Group have questions for the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U85	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U86	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Eight members of the Free Party Group will report to the Prime Minister on the possible pressure on the Estonian-Russian border. These questions on border protection have been raised in the past and are also being put forward, as are questions on migration issues. The topics are topical. In particular, our questions are driven by what took place during the summer on the Russian-Norwegian and Russian-Finnish border, where hundreds of asylum seekers gathered, mostly with Russian visas and residence permits. These countries did not get these things right until the FSB received a signal from the highest point of view and bilateral agreements were made. This development can also affect us. If the European Union is successful in closing the Balkan corridor, we very much hope that it will succeed, then the pressure of refugees moving through Russia can only increase. We therefore have a number of questions for the Prime Minister. What is the threat assessment and readiness to act in the event of a possible crisis? We're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U87	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U88	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The active collective of the members of the Free Party will come up with an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Reinsalu. This is about economic crime. The criminal police put in place an internal procedure last year, which provides for economic crimes to be dealt with from an amount of EUR 80000. We know there's 45 people in this department. It is clear that, given the complexity of economic crimes and the fact that they are mostly hidden crimes, it is not realistic for such a small staff to ensure compliance with the principle of mandatory criminal proceedings. On the basis of this principle, the police cannot set a fixed financial limit, but it is possible to close the criminal proceedings opened if there are legal grounds for doing so. I would like to say, as a mid-term remark, that the situation is also no better in the prosecutor's office, where less than 15 people work in the Economic, Corruption and Cybercrime Department. The government does not want to increase fixed costs. Estonian penal law has been quite rigid; it simply forces the proceedings to be terminated. For example, 2010/2015 was closed. 4577 cases of fraud, 97 cases of insolvency and 166 cases of breach of accounting obligations. The sector is confused as to whether the government will allow such action to continue. This could lead us to a situation similar to that of the previous regime. We want answers to six questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U89	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U90	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 19 colleagues, I will refer an inquiry to Minister of Finance Sven Sester. On 10 March, the Governing Council of the European Central Bank held a meeting, which decided to lower interest rates, extend the large-scale bond-supporting programme and provide banks with long-term loans. Some conditions are so favourable that banks are paid for borrowing. The European Central Bank decided to increase the monthly purchases of a large-scale bond purchase programme from EUR 60 billion to EUR 80 billion. The range of bonds that could be purchased by central banks under the support purchase programme was also broadened, with the inclusion of corporate bonds with an investment grade that are not part of the financial sector. Several analysts have said, after the decisions of the European Central Bank, that this is the last lifeline, and that there is nothing more for the central bank to do, because the line that can still be used to revive the economy in Europe is beginning to reach. Indrek Neivelt commented on the central bank's decision, saying that the money would be printed in sums no one could see for a long time. At the same time, the extension of the bond programme may mean to us here in Estonia that in addition to Elering, another Estonian company can fit under this programme. In particular, we are talking about Eesti Energia, which has already issued large volumes of bonds. As of February, Eesti Pank has purchased euro area central banks' public sector bonds for 1.5 billion euros and only 59 million of this 1.5 billion were related to Estonia, directly to Elering. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister of Finance. We are interested in how Estonia should feel about the measures that all other euro area Member States are taking to revitalise their economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U91	The four requests for information adopted shall be sent to the Ministers as soon as they comply with the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are 87 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U92	Our agenda first includes the third reading of the draft Act 81 amending the law on the grant of international protection to an alien initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Ken-Marti Vaher Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Last autumn, the Council of Ministers for the Interior of the European Union decided to relocate more than 150,000 refugees who had arrived mostly in southern European countries within Europe. Today, under 1 000 people have been relocated within the European Union as a precedent for this decision. In essence, this means that relocation will not work because refugees are fleeing from the representatives of the countries in which they are being relocated. Let us recall, even last autumn, the launch of the so-called relocation, when half of the 30 people relocated to Sweden ran before they reached Sweden. It was Sweden, not some Eastern European countries. It is clear that the solutions imposed on immigration do not work. There are working contributions that the sovereign Member State itself believes in, and, of course, clear rules that meet the interests of the nation state. Immigration problems must be resolved with practical steps, and I am pleased that we are doing this today in this Chamber. A draft law has reached the third reading, with which the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has done a lot of work and which strengthens Estonia's control over immigration and establishes clear requirements for foreigners. These changes will address a large number of concerns raised by the migration crisis in the European public. This is also a good follow-up to our conservative migration policy and will create a better preparedness for the Estonian state for a situation where the migration crisis is increasing. I am convinced that as a country, Estonia must manage its own immigration and decide who and how much we will receive. This is what we will be able to do more and more after these changes have been adopted. The migration crisis is likely to affect us in Europe for a long time. It brings a number of people to Estonia and other European countries who may not share European values and are trying to establish their own laws and practices here. I also consider it right to state clearly in the law that people who do not respect our constitution and values are not welcome in Estonia and foreigners are obliged to adapt and acquire Estonian language here. In addition, we must provide the public authorities with better tools to deal with cases of inappropriate persons and to allow for a faster response. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U94	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U95	Let me briefly mention the proposals of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, which have been reflected in the draft and which we are deciding on today. First, we set clear requirements for people arriving in Estonia, including foreigners to be relocated. We write clearly in the law that an alien who arrives in Estonia and stays here must follow our constitutional order as well as respect the Estonian language and culture and our constitutional values and the organisation of Estonian society. Violation of this obligation also has a clear consequence, for example one of the grounds for revocation of the residence permit. An applicant for international protection shall be made aware of the so-called "value declaration' and shall be obliged to accept it and take it into account. There is also a general obligation to participate in the adaptation programme. If he doesn't, there will be consequences. Of course, persons who have received protection are also obliged to acquire Estonian at a certain level. If such a person does not participate in language training, the payment of benefits may be limited. Secondly, the decision to relocate refugees is not made by a mysterious official, but the decision-making power is given to the representative of the people, i.e. the Riigikogu. Parliament, through its permanent committee, decides each time on the limit of these persons, as well as on the country of origin. If the Riigikogu does not consent, the government cannot act. Thirdly, we are placing an obligation on the Police and Border Guard Board to establish a list of safe countries of origin. Persons from safe countries cannot benefit from international protection. This also means that the processing of applications for protection will be faster and more effective. Fourthly, most procedures for applications for international protection take place outside Estonia and a stronger control of persons is introduced. This means, in particular, that, in the interests of security, proceedings take place where the person who made the application for international protection is located and that the person is only allowed to enter the country once a background check has been carried out. The period of validity of the residence permit will also be reduced in the future for those applying for international protection. A residence permit will be granted for a period of one year in the future, currently being granted for a period of three years. The beneficiary of international protection must apply for an extension of the residence permit each year. This means that the Estonian state will have the opportunity to check whether the person has fulfilled his or her obligations and how he or she has adapted to our society. However, if the situation in the home country of the beneficiary of international protection has become calm, return procedures can also be initiated. Fifthly, refugees will not have higher benefits than locals. These changes will remove the pressure to create so-called refugee migration in the interests of social benefits, which is a painful reality in many European countries. The amendments cancel additional grants for beneficiaries of international protection, such as much-spoken grants for repairing and furnishing the dwelling. This means that persons who have received international protection will receive the same social benefits as Estonian residents, in addition, they will only have the opportunity to receive language training and translation services for a certain period of time. Dear Riigikogu! These practical steps in our laws will enable us to better secure our future. We will respond to the migration crisis with appropriate steps that will better protect our values and Estonia's security. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union supports the adoption of this draft as a law and, of course, calls on the other political groups of the Riigikogu to support it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U96	On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U97	Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing here today a package of legislative amendments, which is actually such a slightly torn cloth blanket: some places it has beautiful, some ugly and some are missing at all. There are legislative improvements, ideas and new ideas that make our policy more humane and clearer, but there are also offers, ideas and regulations that do not take into account the real world in which we live and operate. Among the useful ideas here are, for example, an adaptation programme, which hopefully helps people to learn about the ways in which they operate, the legal space and the way in which they operate. The second positive point is certainly the clarification of legal proceedings and expulsion procedures. In fact, if we have decided that we cannot grant international protection to one person or another, we will not leave him forever in limbo, in prison or in the Calais jungle, but say that, yes, unfortunately we will not allow you protection, we will send you out, we will send you back to where you came from. This creates legal certainty. On the other hand, unfortunately, today we are also discussing unrealistic demands. I'm talking about language demands. If we commit a person to doing something, for example, to obey our laws and learn our language, then that means that he must also be made realistic. However, we do not have the methodology to teach Estonian as a foreign language to people who, for example, are not literate. The people who arrive may come from places with very different language environments, but we will hit them all with a single table, in a situation where we have not even been able to provide proper and functional language learning for the long-term inhabitants of our country. We are clearly making demands that we, as a country, are not trying to make possible. This is certainly neither statesmanly nor reasonable. Now the last and most important thing. These changes and ideas that we are discussing here today do not respond, I think, to what Estonian citizens expect most of us here in the Riigikogu. Our citizens want clarity. They want certainty about the maximum number of people that Estonia receives every year. We won't tell them that. We say that we are processing and do not worry, Parliament is discussing every time. But people still don't know the answer. They're worried and restless. They don't understand how many new people will come to our country in a year. They have the right to know the answer, because we use our common money, which we agree to use when we adopt the state budget. But now all of a sudden, we're not gonna tell you how much it takes for international protection. The lack of legal certainty is, in the view of the Centre Party Group, a very, very big problem. Because of these mistakes, we cannot support this draft today and now. However, we acknowledge the sincere and good will of all our colleagues to work on the creation of a really missing refugee and international protection policy in Estonia. Let us hope that we will continue to patch up the holes I mentioned here and also some other holes and make structural policies. That is why the Centre Party Group has decided today to abstain from voting on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U98	Andres Herkel, please, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U99	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! Members of the Free Party Group have decided to support this draft. But since I have a little historical memory, I remember that when the same law was dealt with in the previous Riigikogu formation in 2013, I remember that the motive of the Centre Party for not supporting it at the time was that the demands that were made on the expulsion centres, which were called detention centres, were too strict, were too few opportunities and liberality. We have now heard that the state lacks the ability to foresee how many of these people will come to us, and that is the motive for not supporting us. I guess these political parties' motives here also vary depending on the international situation and the mood of the people. But on behalf of the Free Party, I would like to say that this bill is probably one of the most important drafts that has been dealt with by the current Riigikogu. A whole lot of things had to be fixed, and obviously there might be more questions, because we are not able to anticipate all situations. In the press, the question arose of where the subsidies came from in their time for renting and repairing an apartment that our own people could not get from anywhere because there were no possibilities for doing so. Why did this happen in 2013? It turned out that, at the level of the regulation, all these subsidies existed since 2006, but it may not make much sense to dig into history, since at the time the term 'emigration' probably meant something else to many than now. At the time, Boris Nemtsov was still alive and it was thought that if he came from Russia for any reason, then perhaps the Estonian state would have to grant him international protection. The flood of asylum seekers, as was currently not foreseeable at that time, could not be foreseen. I'm sure that the subject also ties in with the question that we handed over earlier. If the European Union is able to take more decisive action and even quiet the flood coming from the Balkans, if certain agreements have been reached with Turkey and indeed do, then it is quite likely that refugees will find other routes and asylum seekers will also come to Estonia's eastern border. We need to be ready for all these situations and for them to be resolved. It is not possible to say how many of these people may be in Estonia at one point, but it is possible to lay down the rules on which the Estonian state proceeds in resolving such situations. Certainly, this draft has taken a good step towards ensuring that these rules are not too attractive to asylum seekers. These rules take into account the specific nature of our language and culture and are at the same time fair enough to enable Estonia to implement them as a rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U100	Andres Anvelt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U101	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Reflecting on this draft, it can be said that a long debate actually led to a real problem, the same problem of refugees and refugees, which we began to see clearly only about a year ago. In 2013, I also voted against the law on granting international protection to a foreigner in this Chamber. It is certainly worth recalling that the reason why these subsidies increased in this way was that they were linked to the level of subsistence. In 2013 no one could possibly have guessed the workers of the Act, just as the explanations of the official published in the Estonian Express showed that the Social Democrats would come to power and start demanding that the Estonian people increase their subsistence limit. To be honest, this border has risen twice. At that time, in the law on granting international protection to an alien, the many things that we are changing today were linked to the same level of subsistence. So these problems were probably stuck together at the time, and the opposite was that we did not know what was going to happen after a few years, even though Italy, for example, had already started to ring the alarm a few years earlier, that the number of refugees on its borders had increased considerably. This law certainly reduces the possibilities of speculating and, perhaps, of frightening people, what many 'opulent leaders' and also some politicians have done in shaping their populist policies. Now it is very clear in the law that I hope that the hall will support these changes in terms of the level of subsistence that refugees have, as well as in terms of subsidies for the restoration of their housing. These changes will certainly take a lot of pressure off. At the same time, it makes me a little skeptical, even though I do not doubt this obligation in my own right, it must be for every person who moves to another country to live in this kind of slogan, which we often, at least many of us, do not follow. This is respect for constitutional order. Surely every person wants to fulfill this obligation, and every honest person wants to do so in a foreign country. He must be given the opportunity to get acquainted with these requirements before the time comes when he has acquired the Estonian language at the appropriate level. Our constitutional order is characterised both by the Constitution and by many other laws that we must begin to translate into Arabic, for example, or some Arabic dialect. I would also like to say that in this case, as politicians, we are committed to having the same constitutionality more in mind when we speak about the same refugees. It is precisely because our constitution makes it very clear that all people are treated the same, regardless of their skin colour, race, nationality, etc. When we are talking, for example, about processing the same draft, I recall the initial proposal of one of our coalition partners that an applicant for international protection should not have the right to apply to the courts once a decision has been taken on him or her. This cannot in any way be considered to be in accordance with the constitutional order of Estonia. A person must have the right to appeal against decisions made by the state about him. Luckily, that proposal did not go through. I think that if we adopt this law today, a lot of questions will be answered. The Social Democrats will certainly support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U102	Please, Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U103	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that the Conservative People's Party supports this draft. We have criticised the law in force since the beginning, which is why we were not in Parliament at that time, and mainly because it is exceptionally and unfairly generous against immigrants or refugees. We have been talking for a year about not motivating excessive immigration with excessive social benefits, not with any very high-ranking humanitarian talk, some multiplicity talk, allowing to undermine, let us say, the constitutional order of the Estonian national order. We consider it a service of our own that it has succeeded in mobilising public opinion over the course of the year to such an extent that it has an impact even on the coalition and they are forced to amend the law. We put forward a number of amendments to this bill, almost all of which went through. I would point out that some went straight through, others voted down by the coalition, but the coalition retabled them in a slightly different wording. So we think this law is what suits us and moves in the right direction. At the same time, let's say a better sparrow in his hand than a dove on the roof. There is still room for improvement, and we will certainly come up with suggestions for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U104	Kalle Laane on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U105	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! Today's Postman writes about the potential risk of a mass migration coming from the east. I believe that this draft law, which is today at third reading, is certainly one of the preventive measures to prevent this risk from being realised. For the preparation of this bill, I think, very many people should be praised: the politicians who are in this Chamber, the advisers, the media and the entire Estonian people. I believe that this is certainly the best in the present time and space that we have been able to record as a law. But that doesn't mean, of course, that one day things can't change. Then we will have to change the law. I hope that time doesn't come very quickly. So thank you very much, everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U106	There's no more calls. Draft 81 must be put to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, the bill becomes a law when the majority of the Riigikogu votes for it. That's why we're doing the presence check. There are currently 82 members of the Riigikogu, missing 19. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 81 amending the law on granting international protection to an alien initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote. There are 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft act, there is no one against and 19 abstentions. The law amending the law on the grant of international protection to a foreigner and the related amendment of other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U107	The next item is the third reading of the draft Act amending § 34 of the National Defence Act, initiated by the National Defence Committee. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U108	Good speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The Conservative People's Party discussed in depth what to do with this amendment. We found that we cannot support it for a very simple reason: it is a legislative amendment, according to which the decisions of war and peace do not go through this great hall, but are taken by the Commission. Moreover, it is not a public committee, it is a place where the coalition formalises things without a wider debate. We think it's not right. The Riigikogu should not give up its competence on such an important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U109	There are no more requests to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. Draft 182 also requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption. We're gonna do a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 are missing. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending § 34 of the National Defence Act initiated by the National Defence Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft act, 8 against and no one abstained. The Act amending § 34 of the National Defence Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U110	The third reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Rainer Vakra on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Socialist Group supports, of course, the good draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. But in order for a good colleague, Peeter Ernits, to be able to support this bill in peace of heart, I will answer two questions, which remained hanging in the air at second reading. I will read the question of Peter Ernits in the verbatim: 'Mr President! Good President! First of all, for the sake of the verbatim, I'd like you to send me these calculations, why do you need to add up like seven more years? " The answer is that the process is often prolonged by substantive discussions, the involvement of interest groups, landowners, and other actors. This is happening very thoroughly today. There are currently 115 draft rules at different stages of the procedure. Since 2013, 47 protection rules have been adopted since the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act. In view of the number of these areas, the progress of the existing procedures, the increasingly detailed requirements for the procedure and the additional amendment of the protection regime to these procedures, it makes sense to complete the procedures for new proposals for granting protection by 1 May 2023. The question of Mr Ernits continued: 'But my question concerns proposal No 6. It says that in the interests of national defence, there can be action in the target protection zone. Here's a very interesting sentence. It is clear that there are habitats that need moderate disturbance. Which habitats in the target protection zone require moderate disturbance? So who's living there? " Who is living there? The various communities of Kõrvemaa, heaths and sands, are a habitat for many species, such as bush and sand bulbs, stone lizards and bear bells, who need open and semi-open areas. A moderate disturbance will contribute to the preservation of such areas, but such disturbance and disturbance areas will, of course, need to be determined in detail in cooperation between conservationists and the Defence Forces. In practice, the document of this joint agreement is the management plan for the nature reserve in Northern Kõrvemaa. You can courageously support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U112	On behalf of the Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U113	Good Riigikogu! We need to sense that we are doing regional policy with every law, not just with the laws on administrative management. One of the direct influences of regional policy is the same Nature Conservation Act. The dispute over the review of the protection rules is an influence on local government, entrepreneurship and also on the genuineness of the local person. In Soviet times, nature conservation protected the idea of restoring independent statehood. The regime has changed, and the values have changed, but the apparatus value system has remained the same against which it was then concentrated. The result? Huge disappointment in public authorities, which are growing into a universal instrument of hatred for the state. Humans and nature are not seen as symbiosis; they are seen as exclusive. Even local authorities have taken up a fight against public authorities because they too feel unfair when they cannot be the organisers of local life on their own territory. The local government leaders perceive the consequences most painfully, for the wasteland remains and is wrong. Jobs disappear, people leave and disappointment remain because a normal person is not an equal partner for a small country. At times, the fact that it costs a thicker purse, the owner of which does not need to know much about nature conservation or cutting permit, is sometimes screamed out because the eye is slammed. Compensation for nature conservation restrictions as a partial or total exemption or as some other support is in no way proportionate to the potential income that could be obtained as a result of reasonable management. I do not see that the current tax system would allow the state to make up for it in any way. An attempt to cancel a scheduled review of the protection rules would have ended with a kind of crash. The entry into force of the amendments would require a swift revision of all the rules. This would also have led to an appeal to the legitimate expectation that arose in 2007. I think that public authorities should do practical work rather than go to court. Yes, also the current compromise amendment to postpone the revision of the protection rules for seven years will not solve the problem. The question remains as to why the current version of the Nature Conservation Act has not been completed by updating the protection rules since 2004. For 12 years, it seems like a very long time, but this solution is, in my opinion, the best of the worst. We must all work to ensure that the target is achieved more quickly. We need to move towards creating opportunities for people so that they can participate actively, in essence and in life-to-life decisions that concern them. Each decision must be based on human-argued communication and impact assessments. I know that the Committee on the Environment has this general principle in mind and will look at further developments in the Nature Conservation Act. The results will hopefully be back on the Commission's table in a month at the latest. Good luck and consistency! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U114	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U115	Honourable speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I say right away that the Reform Party Group supports this draft to become a law. But I am indebted to the speech from the second reading of this draft and to some of the explanations that I promised my colleague Adams. Let them be presented here from the Riigikogu board. As I said last week during the debate on this draft, the ideal situation for preserving and protecting nature is likely to exist when, indeed, every person can understand and preserve nature in their daily editing and everyday life and so little is spent that public intervention and all kinds of official protection rules are no longer needed. But that's probably gonna take us a while, I think, at least one generation. The truth is that natural education certainly plays a very important role. The same step can and must be taken with the increase in awareness, the growth of trust, the knowledge, understanding and understanding that man is not an enemy of nature, but a part of nature. We must not forget, and we must not forget, that if one species or habitat is unique or really endangered, it can and must be protected where it is. None of these species or habitats can protect themselves from human activity, we can do so, and we alone must do so. Work to improve the situation of a particular species or habitat and the restrictions imposed must be so precisely set in these conservation rules that they really benefit in real life. After all, the aim is not only to lay down a code of protection on paper, but to ensure that the situation of this habitat or species actually improves. Currently, 18% of the entire territory of the country is protected in Estonia. If you think about it, you will probably understand that it is already such a representative indicator that the expansion of very extensive protected areas is definitely no longer necessary. The main focus must be on the conservation areas already in place and the financing and operation of activities necessary for the conservation and conservation of nature, in particular in existing protected areas. The protection rules adopted years ago need to be reviewed and updated so that they are appropriate, take account of the current situation and comply with existing laws. In the mid-2000s, it was thought that the time when the work was completed and all the protection rules were revised would be May 2016. At the time when that deadline was set, it was certainly not possible to foresee that long litigation, which specifically concerned the protection rules and then began, would only be concluded by the Supreme Court's decision in spring 2011. This judgment, which dates back to spring 2011, was followed by a two-year debate here in the legislative body. Only in spring 2013 did this end with the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act. In particular, in May 2013, this is the zero point after which all the protection rules have been subject to review at the Ministry of the Environment. As has already been mentioned here, a total of 185 protection regulations need to be updated. Following an amendment to the Act which entered into force in spring 2013, 50 have been confirmed. At present, 115 draft protection rules exist at different stages of the procedure. One might ask whether setting a deadline for 2023 does not mean that it is too late, because it is still behind the mountains and why it still takes so much time to review the protection rules. I think there are three more important reasons. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U116	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U117	First of all, compared to the previous time, compared to the same 2000s, the whole process is considerably more comprehensive, and I think that this should be the case. This thoroughness concerns both the reasoning and substantive explanations of the protection rule, as well as disclosure and inclusion. I think that inclusion and disclosure, which often seem to be somewhat excessively time-consuming, are very important for the implementation of the protection rules in real life. This work must be thorough. I really do believe that there must be as much agreement as possible with local people. The more we manage to move towards nature conservation that involves local people in Estonia, the more effective nature conservation will be. So the objectives and activities of a particular protected area must be negotiated and agreed with those who carry out daily activities in the protected area and for whom the protected values have been preserved at all. Putting in place a forceful and forceful protection rule, or protecting nature at all, is like a forced marriage and it just doesn't work. Similarly, it is important that the objective is not simply to establish protection rules as quickly as possible. In my opinion, this could be done quite quickly, perhaps in a few years at most. But if there were no substantive discussions, no substantive analysis, then, again, in real life, this would never work in this way to preserve and protect nature. All of this will inevitably take time. The Committee on the Environment has supported the proposal that this deadline should be set in 2023. I think it is important that Parliament does not return to this whole issue until 2022, but that we are constantly demanding and constantly keeping an eye on this whole process. For all of us, the power! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U118	I close the negotiations and we go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 155. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the Act, 5 against and 2 abstentions. The Act amending the Law on Nature Conservation has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U119	The second reading of the draft 135 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations' will continue. The rapporteur on behalf of the National Defence Commission is Ants Laaneots. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U120	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, With this draft decision, the Riigikogu will determine by 2016 the limit of the number of active troops that may be involved in the first contribution to the international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. Within this number, the Government of the Republic shall decide how many active troops will participate in the specific operation. The limit is 50 active troops according to the draft decision. The need for such a thing is a rather fresh example of NATO. The European Union appealed to NATO to send NATO warships to the Aegean Sea, which was a matter of seven or eight ships. For two weeks, NATO was able to launch only four ships, which are still in charge of the fight against international crime. The second reading took place on 9 December 2015 and was decided to suspend it on a proposal from the National Defence Commission. You're aware of that. In particular, the Commission considered that two amendments had to be made to the National Defence Act prior to the adoption of the decision. First of all, within the limit set by the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic must decide to proceed to a specific military operation as an executive body and not as a Minister of Defence. This is the Article 34, which we have just voted on. Secondly, the Government of the Republic must take into account the position of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu when making this decision. The third aspect, which I have also told you, is that an inquiry must be sent to the Chancellor of Justice as to whether or not these proposals are in conflict with the Constitution. Both amendments have just been adopted, so we can proceed with the draft decision. Before continuing second reading, the National Defence Committee discussed the draft at three meetings: 11 January, 8 February and 10 March. The Minister of Defence also attended the last two sessions. The Minister of Defence accepted the Commission's views when voting on the amendments. On 10 March, the Commission approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 23 December, two amendments were tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia on the draft. Firstly, the decision could enter into force on 1 July. The National Defence Committee did not support the postponement of the enforcement of the decision. The second amendment proposed by the EKRE was that, within the limits of the number contained in the decision, the Riigikogu plenary, not the Minister of Defence or the Government of the Republic, would decide whether to send the active troops to a specific operation, as they felt that any decision to send them to an operation would require a parliamentary debate. Since this proposal is contrary to the National Defence Act, I am referring to § 34, the National Defence Committee did not consider it possible to support it. For its part, the National Defence Committee tabled one draft amendment to point 2 according to which this Decision will enter into force from the moment it was signed. Point 1 of the draft law provides for a technical specification which does not alter the content of the decision, i.e. the deleted part of the text '1. From 1 January to 2016'. At its meeting on 10 March, the National Defence Committee decided to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated, and on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U121	Questions for the waitress. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U122	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we have just adopted a law that stipulates that the mission will not be discussed in this large Chamber, but in the Commission. According to this draft decision, we basically hand the bill of 50 Estonian soldiers to send them anywhere at the request of anyone, because here they have been counted as well as the whole world, from the UN to NATO. In the past, however, this debate has been in this Chamber. What is the reason why we now want to do this in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U123	We've already told you this is the limit of how many active forces are allowed to be expelled by the Department of Defense this year. We do not know in the current dynamic security situation, which is constantly changing, where, when and who we need. I gave an example of this NATO case when the leadership of the European Union called on NATO to send seven or eight ships to the Aegean Sea. Since this question, like the one you are talking about, was obviously not resolved at political level in NATO countries, it was only possible to send four ships. The question is also that if there is an unexpected and urgent need, there will be another delay. One such case has already occurred when Estonia did not participate in the NATO operation in Libya due to the procedures contained in the current legislation. Nor can we send special forces, who are in great demand as a whole, very quickly, if it is necessary, either within NATO or within the framework of the European Union, there is no point in talking about the UN now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U124	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U125	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! What's the reason that it's absolutely 50 active troops? And why has this decision been made only until the end of this year? Do we have to start making new decisions before the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U126	Thank you for your question. 50 was proposed by the Minister of Defence, or the government, that is their limit. We discussed the issue of reducing it in the Committee on National Defence. The last two meetings of the National Defence Commission, as I have already said, were attended by the Minister of Defence. We asked again why 50. He kept this figure and said that it would provide the necessary flexibility. Secondly, if a maximum of 50 active troops are sent on a mission, the Ministry of Defence will be able to manage its financial resources. That means they don't charge any extra money from either the government or us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U127	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We know that quite a considerable number of our so-called missions, namely the so-called missions, are actually made up of a couple of three Defence Forces who have been sent to a third country, either as teachers, intelligence specialists or as other instructors. Why must such a thing be considered as a mission? Why can't we treat this as a mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U129	Thank you for your question. The problem is, we don't know where and when to send them. There may also be a need for a mission. This 50 active troops were calculated that if one of the group's support elements was asked, 40 to 50 men would cover this need. We have experience from Mali. We also have Estcoy's experience with ISAF in Afghanistan. If we send out a team, there must always be a support element there, i.e. there will still be 40 to 50 men or active troops.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U130	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U131	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, Our group has been opposed to this draft from the outset. The reasons are, in fact, very pragmatic and do not overlap with the possible and realised accusations that say that we do not want to contribute to NATO missions, that we do not want to play along with the allies, that we want to avoid, and that if we have avoided and found ourselves in a difficult situation, our allies will also avoid. No, that's not the question. Firstly, we have acted very effectively on all the missions to which we have been invited, and even where we were not invited. Our soldiers have left their lives in Iraq, Afghanistan and so on. Therefore, no one can blame us for evading Estonia's international obligations towards its allies. That's not true. Secondly, it is incomprehensible to me and to our group as a whole how the Riigikogu can voluntarily curtail its own powers in a parliamentary state. The justification, as if we did not do so, because the decision is taking place in the Committee on National Defence, does not hold any water. In the Committee on National Defence, we can exchange ideas, sometimes more violently and sometimes less violently, but the Committee on National Defence is the Commission and what is between the Commission's walls is between the Commission's walls. What's in the big hall is in the big hall. It will be broadcast on television, it will be verbatimized and the views that are stated here will reach the public without hindrance, all pro and contra arguments will reach the public without hindrance. That's normal, that's how it's supposed to be in a democratic country. We are now moving along the road that we are cutting our freedom of expression, our ability to express ourselves, our opportunity to develop a debate in a large Chamber and perhaps to dissuade each other. It is incomprehensible to me that the supreme body of a sovereign parliamentary state itself is suffocating. This is incomprehensible to me, and it is unacceptable to me. Thirdly, it has already been mentioned that the international situation has changed and is quite critical of our position. Russia is withdrawing troops from Syria. Russia has stabilised its position on the conflict in Ukraine. His hands are becoming increasingly free, and we can't rule out the use of those hands that have become freer somewhere else, including us. In this situation, giving out basically blankoveksel to some people in order to decide to send up to 50 Estonian soldiers to any part of the world is literally irresponsible. Why am I saying this? When the Russian-Georgian war broke out, Georgia had, if I remember correctly, I might be wrong, I'm sorry if I'm wrong, about 2,000 soldiers in Iraq. Georgia wanted these soldiers to return quickly. Georgia's ally, the United States, did not find an operational way to provide transport planes to transport soldiers to Georgia to defend their homeland. Who says it can't happen to us? We send our soldiers away, there's a conflict, and our already austerity forces are just smaller by trained soldiers. In this situation, where we are now... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U132	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U133	... we should not think that our army is, above all, a missionary army, but should think that our army, up to a maximum of one hundred percent and more, is ready and capable of fulfilling its duty to protect our country and our citizens and to preserve our sovereignty. These are the reasons why we are opposed to this bill. We're not making any illusions. This law is likely to be passed here, but I am quite convinced that our arguments will respond positively to the public, cause thought to germinate and mobilise the public more critically to evaluate the steps that we take or fail to take in the interests of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U134	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U135	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I share Mr Helme's concerns about the changed security situation. Indeed, such a thing as Mr Helme mentioned happened to the Georgian soldiers. However, I would not be so worried about the Estonian mission soldiers, as up to 50 of our fighters in other parts of the world are not a relevant force from the point of view of Estonian national defence in the face of the crisis that is as imminent as possible. However, these are the relevant forces in the eyes of our allies of up to 50 missionaries, because our flag is on the same table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U136	Thank you. There's no more calls. Amendments to the draft have also been tabled and we will review them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the position of the commission is not taken into account. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on National Defence; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The third amendment has also been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the position of the commission is not taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to this by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations' draft 135. Please take a stand and vote. 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 8 against and 1 abstention. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U137	Let's keep going. Today's fifth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 184. For the presentation, Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, which bears 184. The proposal transposes the amendments to the Directive on taxation of parent and subsidiary companies in the European Union and harmonises the rules on the calculation of losses in securities for resident and non-resident natural persons. Firstly, double non-taxation will be eliminated for hybrid cross-border loans. Income tax will be levied on the dividend paid by the Estonian company, which it pays from the dividend received from a subsidiary company established in another Member State of the European Union, when the subsidiary company was able to deduct the dividend from its taxable income. This situation arises when a country in the European Union treats a payment on a so-called hybrid loan as interest and allows it to be deducted from the profits of the company paying the interest, while the other country treats it as a dividend. The draft eliminates the possibility of double non-taxation arising from it. Secondly, there is an anti-abuse provision on profit distributions between parent companies and subsidiaries which prevents abuse of double taxation rules resulting from the Directive. This means that a subsidiary company may only be established between a parent company and a subsidiary company located in different countries in order to benefit from double taxation agreements and the benefits of the Directive. As a result, a more favourable tax consequence would have been achieved if direct investment had been involved. If the transaction giving rise to the dividend is made not for commercial reasons, but primarily for the purpose of obtaining a tax advantage, then the dividend received from the subsidiary company may not be paid tax-free in future by the company resident in Estonia. The provision merely prevents abuse, does not affect transactions with real economic content, nor does it prohibit a company from choosing a country with an appropriate tax environment for its economic activities. In addition, the unequal treatment of residents and non-residents in the calculation and transmission of losses resulting from the transfer of securities shall be abolished. In particular, the losses resulting from the transfer of securities can only be deducted and transferred to subsequent tax periods by resident natural persons. In the case of a non-resident natural person, the benefits derived from the transfer or return of securities relating to real estate located in Estonia are taxed in Estonia only. However, if a non-resident natural person is harmed by such transfers of securities in Estonia, he cannot pass it on to the following tax periods. The draft also allows non-resident natural persons to take such damage into account and pass on to subsequent tax periods. The provisions resulting from the Directive are intended to enter into force in the autumn of this year, on the basis of a six-month period between their adoption and entry into force. The provisions relating to the calculation of losses on securities incurred by a non-resident person shall enter into force on 1 January 2017, when the new period of taxation of the natural person begins. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U139	Thank you. Minister, the members of the Riigikogu still have questions for you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I note that there is one point in the government union agreement that says that additional attention will be paid to transactions between parent companies and subsidiaries in order to facilitate the control of the tax administration's profit removal from Estonia. I understand that this bill has nothing to do with this point of the agreement. I'm asking you how far you're in the ministry with the formulation of this point of the government union agreement and the preparation of regulations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U141	Thank you, good questioner! As you rightly said, indeed, this draft law does not concern this procedure. Currently, the Ministry of Finance is mainly in the process of discussing with a number of major audit firms. We should see that possible decisions and legislative changes do not lead to a situation where our economic environment is damaged. In a good sense, schemes or measures that could improve the transfer of a possible dividend in the form of loans should not create a situation that would clearly damage the Estonian business environment and reduce competitiveness. So this debate is ongoing, and we have met quite several times with the so-called big Four, or the Big Four, in the audit offices. For example, we could agree that all loans will be taken into account and allowed to be declared as of 31 December, for example. I do not think that this is a good solution to take all aspects into account. So we're working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U142	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U143	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Assuming that the Riigikogu will adopt this law and that it will enter into force until 1 January next year, I ask whether this could have any impact on the tax receipts of this year. You mentioned those who, under today's law, have the opportunity to use these schemes, as you said, and who will lose that opportunity. Can the number of transactions be expected to increase or decrease this year in order to overcome the existing situation before the new law enters into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U144	Thank you. I would even expand it and talk not only about this year, but I would also look to the future if this law were to apply. This bill, which we are dealing with today, does not have a 'profit-making character'. That is not the purpose of this draft. We are mainly talking about rules, the transposition of directives. However, this draft is more of a market- and business-friendly one. It does not have a profitable character in this year, when the law has not yet come into force, nor in the coming years. Rather, it is a question of double non-taxation. We can discuss that if we manage to prevent double non-taxation, the tax base could presumably have an increased share of income tax in the future. Basically, we can build a structure like this. However, by its very nature, this draft law is not intended to increase the tax base in the sense of the State, but rather to correct it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U145	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U146	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Finance Committee prepared a draft law amending the Income Tax Act for the first reading of 184 at its meeting on 10 March. As has been said, the draft aims to transpose European Union law into the general anti-abuse rule on profit distributions between parent companies and subsidiaries and to exclude double non-taxation of hybrid loans. In addition, the draft removes differences in treatment between resident and non-resident natural persons for the purposes of taxing the proceeds from the sale of securities. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, and Elo Haugas, adviser to the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, took stock of the draft and answered questions put by the members of the Commission. I will give an overview of the issues and the debate that was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. First of all, the members of the Commission had a question of how double cross-border non-taxation and the detection of abuses of profits of parent and daughter companies are taking place in practice. The representative of the Ministry explained that this is mainly the result of the exchange of information between national tax authorities, and that risk analyses are also carried out. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that identifying cases is not always easy. There is also a directive on administrative cooperation in the European Union and work with third countries on the basis of OECD cooperation agreements, but the network of cooperation is constantly expanding. The situation is not yet perfect, but it is improving. Then there was the question of an impact analysis of the anti-abuse provision for hybrid loans. They wanted to know what the scope of these new provisions was. The representative of the Ministry explained that a resident company would only be subject to additional burden of proof if requested by the tax authority, i.e. the taxpayer does not have to provide any evidence at the time of submission of the declaration. The question was also about the increase in tax revenue resulting from the draft. That's what they asked in this room. The estimate was that in Estonia we can talk about marginal increases in tax revenues. There are not many such schemes in Estonia, but the impact of the amendment to the directive is quite felt in the larger Member States, especially where these schemes are used more often. There was a question of how far the idea put forward by the Minister of Finance to apply the lower tax rate more often to the payers of the dividend is. The Minister explained that the aim of this idea was to encourage mature companies to pay out the accumulated income in a dividend on a regular and stable basis, but the subject requires analysis and requires prior political agreements. The question was when national double taxation would be stopped in a situation where the recipient of the dividend has a holding of less than 10% in the company. The answer to this question was that the subject was in the Ministry's work programme for this year, but this issue did not come into the draft, because the deadline for transposition of the directive did not allow it to wait. The draft on this issue will probably be completed in the autumn. Members of the Commission also asked whether this change had been transposed into national law in Greece and other countries of the southern European Union. The answer was that the requirements of the Directive must be transposed by all Member States, including Greece. In most countries, changes should already be taken over. It was also a question of increasing the share of income tax in local government budgets, such as the income tax on local government budgets. The explanation was that the Riigikogu and the Commission can discuss this issue, but rather it is part of the debate on administrative reform. To sum up, the Commission's proposal to close the first reading of the draft (consensus decision) and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 31 March (also a consensual decision). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U147	Thank you. You have questions. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U148	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Commission waitress. The question is motivated by your own question to the Minister. It is known that recently, due to Swedbank's exceptional dividend payment, the state budget received quite a lot of revenue. Unfortunately, many other foreign companies that have subsidiaries in Estonia, banks among others, have not always done so in order to withdraw the dividend from Estonia, from which Estonia would have benefited. Did the Commission discuss this? In part, it is a matter of tax morality. Firstly, where it is more useful for the company to withdraw the dividend. Secondly, if there's action here, maybe there could be some initiatives here that could help take out the tax revenue right here. Did the Commission discuss how to encourage it so that foreign large companies would have the incentive to withdraw the dividend right here, which would benefit the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U149	We did not open up this issue so widely in the framework of this draft, but some questions touched on it. Even if it was the Minister's idea to encourage mature companies to pay the accumulated dividend regularly and steadily, allowing for a lower tax rate. In fact, this is the time for paying the dividend and making decisions. In this sense, it is a legitimate question that, if the Minister has come up with such an idea, I, for example, as an entrepreneur, wonder whether it would be more useful for me not to pay the dividend this year and to keep it for the next few years, because maybe such an advantage will come. But it is only an idea and there is no more precise plan to initiate regulation or draft. The Minister said that the subject requires analysis and, understandably, political agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U150	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 184. I will set the deadline for the submission of 184 amendments. a at 5.15 p.m. on 31 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U151	Let's keep going. Today's sixth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 192. Waitress Secretary of Finance Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I will give an overview of the draft Act amending the VAT Act, which bears number 192. We want to change the procedure for applying the VAT concession to the NATO armed forces as of 1 May 2016 and to the European Union institutions as of 1 January 2017. In particular, the institutions of the European Union and the armed forces and military headquarters of a Member State of NATO will be subject to a VAT exemption regulation instead of reimbursement of VAT on expenses incurred for the performance of their duties. The reason for the amendment is the European Commission's desire to reduce the administrative burden on the Union institutions, while the objective of NATO's armed forces is to ensure that the funds planned for investments in Estonia can be used to the maximum. Due to the differences in the structure of the financial systems of the Allied States, VAT refund currently remains partly unused in Estonia. Secondly, the procedure for suspending the right to declare imports on the VAT return is amended and the regulation for repealing that right is laid down. This right is a derogation from the VAT declaration of a taxable person's imports, which is predominantly zero. The tax authority shall have the right to suspend the use of this derogation for the duration of the tax procedure if the person does not meet the required conditions. In addition, the tax authority has the right to withdraw the right to benefit from this derogation by means of a tax decision or when the taxable person has not fulfilled the conditions required for six consecutive months. Thirdly, in order to optimise the work organisation of the tax authorities and the Police and Border Guard Board, it is planned to eliminate duplication of certain activities at border crossing points. The Police and Border Guard Board is given the right to check the tax-free departure of a natural person and to confirm the receipts. So far, only the tax authorities have had this right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U153	Thank you. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! As I understand it, there will soon be an exemption from VAT for friendly military personnel who are located here. How much do we lose?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U155	Thank you. Rather than being deprived here, we are talking about reducing the administrative burden. It is now possible to ask for VAT back. We reject this administrative burden, and instead of refunding the tax, we exempt them from the tax. Rather, there is still a context for reducing administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U156	Thank you. No further questions for you. I would like to present Kersti Sarapuu, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U157	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, on Thursday, 10 March, a meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was held, where one topic of discussion was the first reading of the draft amending the VAT Act 192. The Minister has just formulated here before you all the main objectives of the draft. I am only talking about what was discussed in the Commission. There were indeed questions in the Commission. For example, have the changes been negotiated with stakeholders. The Minister explained that there were no differences of opinion on this draft. With regard to paragraph 1, point 20, the question was on what basis the refund of VAT to diplomats takes place. It was explained that the principles are essentially unchanged. The purpose of the specific point is to remove the institutions of the Union from the list, as the VAT rate of 0% for the sale of goods and services to them will continue to apply. One question was whether an increase in the threshold for VAT registration and a new amount could not have been already included in this draft. In Estonia, since 1 April 1995 the threshold for VAT registration has been EUR 16000 or EEK 250000. The Minister explained that a consensus had been reached in the Government of the Republic to raise it to EUR 25000. The estimated budgetary impact of the amendment is EUR 2,4 million for the benefit of the companies. The debate on the possible rate of debate is likely to continue during the press discussions. After that, procedural decisions were taken. It was decided to close the first reading of the draft and to set 31 March 2016 as the deadline for the submission of amendments. The Commission unanimously supported both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U158	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 192. The first reading is finished. I will set the deadline for tabling 192 amendments. a at 5.15 p.m. on 31 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U159	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. The seventh item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Accepting the National Development Plan for the Use of Stone in 2016 to 2030' presented by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to talk about what took place between the first and second reading of the draft decision to approve the National Development Plan for the Use of Stone in 2016 to 2030. As a reminder, the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 January and the first reading took place on 10 February. The deadline for submitting amendments was 25 February and no proposals were submitted at that time. The Commission prepared a second reading at its meeting on 7 March. The meeting was attended by representatives of the environmental community who had made their proposals to amend and supplement the draft. A representative of the Ministry of the Environment also took part in the meeting. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on the Environment decided by consensus that two amendments would be drafted on the draft. These amendments are as follows: Firstly, the Commission's proposal to supplement the draft with a new point 2 which instructs the Government of the Republic to analyse developments affecting the field, including the development of the energy market, every five years and, if necessary, to supplement the implementation plan of the development plan or to submit a proposal to amend the development plan to the Riigikogu. This is due to the fact that there are various changes in the world, such as changes in oil prices, improvements in energy connections or changes in global climate policy. On the basis of the proposal, these developments can be updated and, where appropriate, reflected in the development plan and its implementation plan. Amendment 2 provides that the draft should be supplemented by a new point 3, which entrusts the Government of the Republic with the task of giving greater attention to oil shale chemistry research and development in the implementation plan of the development plan. The proposal stems from the fact that more universities and applied universities need to be involved in developing oil shale chemistry in order to improve oil shale development and to find new uses for oil shale. The commission also made procedural decisions and proposals. The Committee on the Environment decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, i.e. 16 March, and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. The Committee on the Environment reached such decisions unanimously, i.e. unanimously. Thank you. Please support the approval of the development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U161	Thank you. You have questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U162	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! You spoke here about the amendment on the revision of the development plan every five years. The changes in the global economy, indeed, can take place much faster. Isn't five years too long?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U163	Thank you. The Committee on the Environment discussed this for five years. But the final wording did indeed remain that at least once every five years. In fact, the Committee on the Environment came to the understanding that if the Committee on the Environment, or the Riigikogu, is familiar with it and is certainly interested in it at other times, it may come to account for it. This, however, is the red line at which time the Committee on the Environment will in any case have to come and report on what has happened in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U164	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U165	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned last time in this remote control, I and the Free Party Group are very concerned about this development plan for the use of oil shale, which is somehow, let us say, straight ahead of time, and do not take into account the real situation in Ida-Viru County or on the world market. All calculations in the development plan are based on "day-to-day" indicators. We therefore think it would be very short-sighted to have such a development plan passed today. We even think that we would in some ways ridicule our actions. Due to these and many other arguments, the Group of the Estonian Free Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft Riigikogu decision 166. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U166	Thank you. There's no more calls. Amendments to the draft have also been tabled and we will review them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 166, but the Group of the Estonian Free Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft. We are going to vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Free Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft Riigikogu decision. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 44 against and no one abstained. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, since this is not an ordinary second reading, but a second reading of the draft decision and the commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote of 166, we will go to the final vote. I vote on draft 166 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Accepting the National Development Plan for the Use of Stone in 2016 to 2030' submitted by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 11 against and 1 abstention. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U167	Let's keep going. Today's last, eighth item is the second reading of Bill 163 of Amendment to the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Heidy Purga, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U168	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, 16 March, the second reading is the draft law amending the Copyright Act 163 which transposes into the Estonian Copyright Act the directive on the collective management of copyright and related rights in the European Union and on the multi-territorial licensing of the right to use musical works online. Simply put, Estonia is transposing a European directive which provides that the laws of the Member States are to be harmonised on the matters referred to. The first reading of the draft act took place on 10 February and the deadline for submitting amendments, 25 February, members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees did not propose any amendments to the draft text. The Estonian Artists' Association sent its proposals on the draft. They had a total of four amendments, two of which directly concerned the draft at issue and two had a more general background. I will say a few words about the amendments that concerned this draft. Firstly, it was proposed to replace the term'multi-territorial licence' by 'European licence' in the draft. The Commission discussed the proposal and decided to propose an amendment to replace the term'multi-territorial licensing agreement' with the term 'European supranational licensing agreement' to make it clear that these agreements are applicable within the Member States of the European Union. The Association of Estonian Performers made three further proposals to the Commission, but the Commission, having heard the positions of the Ministry of Justice, decided not to make these amendments on the draft. At its meeting on 10 March, the Commission decided to send the draft to second reading and to propose that the second reading be terminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U169	Thank you. You have a series of questions. Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Does this draft or amendment deal with or do not deal with the so-called empty tape fee? This is the reward I think only Estonians know. This is the so-called'recording copyright' fee. Is this bill about this issue or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U171	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. This issue was discussed in the Committee on Culture and an amendment was also tabled by the Estonian Artists' Association. However, since this was not related to the subject of the draft, it was essentially not discussed, but it was decided to continue working on it. The Committee on Culture recommended that this process be accelerated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U172	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U173	Thank you. Good waitress! My question, too, concerns exactly the same subject. In fact, it has been under discussion in the Riigikogu for years and years, it has been rolled from one ministry to another. At first it was at the Ministry of Culture, now it's at the Ministry of Justice, but there's still no solution found. The current Copyright Act still includes the proceeds of cassettes. How many of these cassette players do we still have, even the few CD players! It's all over the Internet. In fact, until now, the State has not compensated for this part of the revenue for authors, performers and phonogram producers who had previously been able to obtain income for selling an "empty tape" or a medium. You have partially answered my question by answering the previous question, but is the Committee on Culture planning, for example, to launch a draft to finally solve this problem? If things are moving more and more online, there is no point in talking about an empty tape and its reward. They don't exist anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U174	Thank you for your question. Yes, as I said, this issue was discussed separately when talking about these amendments. The Committee on Culture's proposal to the Ministry of Justice was very strongly encouraged to speed up this process. We also wondered what the delay might have been due to. Let's just say we didn't get a very specific answer, but this is one of our most important issues in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U175	Thank you very much. Maybe I have a completely incompetent question, but I'm still asking. You mentioned a drafting amendment here, the word 'European' was introduced into the draft or something. My question is whether this also makes it clear that I dare to say that 80% of the music we consume is actually from America and that the relationship between American licence holders and Europe is relatively complicated. Is there anything clearer here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U176	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U177	This directive does not specifically lay down this issue, but it is the duty of each representative organisation to maintain good relations with the representatives of countries not mentioned in the directive and to protect the rights of its customers. This directive does not concern this issue, but it is, of course, a matter of honour for every representative organisation. This is about good partnerships.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U178	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, One simple question: will the authors receive a little more money for their talent and creativity with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U180	Thank you for your question. I can't answer that, to be honest. What they will certainly receive is better and more equal treatment, more transparent reporting and faster repayment of money. In short, transparency and related reporting are essential in this directive, which certainly protects authors more than has been the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U181	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U182	Thank you for the floor. Now, my last question. We currently have a number of representative organisations collecting these fees: an association of performers, an association of phonogram producers, etc. Unfortunately, the ability of these organisations to raise money and then to divide among their members varies. Some of them are stronger, some are weaker. The authors' association is certainly the strongest, but the performers' association and the association of phonogram producers may not be as strong. This strength depends very much on the organisation's own structure. Is it possible to harmonise this with this regulation in any way to create a single 'top'? After all, remuneration is usually obtained from the same works; the subjects of this work are authors, producers of phonograms and also performers. Would it not be possible, for example, for the same song to be rewarded on an equal footing and people should not lose money if, for example, their organisation is simply less able to collect these fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U183	Thank you for your question. As far as the price list of organisations is concerned, this directive does not interfere with it. However, it will certainly provide more equal opportunities for the existing collecting societies in Estonia as well as other European representative associations. However, as far as the price lists are concerned, and given the level playing field based on the so-called price, they are for each organisation to determine itself. The Directive gives the rightholder greater freedom to choose the collecting society to belong to, looking at which organisation's terms and conditions are better suited to the copyright holder. These do not necessarily need to be collective management organisations located in Estonia; these organisations may also be located in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-16_U184	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. One amendment to the draft has been tabled, it has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The commission's proposal is in draft 163... Sorry, negotiations! No, it was a negotiation. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Everything is correct, ladies and gentlemen. The commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 163 and the second reading is to be completed. Today's trial is over. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow morning. Closure of the sitting at 4.05 p.m.
