ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. My colleague Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U2	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Today is International Tourism Day. There are a number of esteemed colleagues in this Chamber who have also earned their own bread in this area. I'm sure they'll feel raised today. On this day, eight members of the Free Party Group have written an inquiry. We considered quite seriously who to send this question to, either the Minister for Enterprise, the Minister for the Environment or the Minister for Health and Labour. However, since the Health Board is under the authority of the Minister for Health and Labour, the name of Evgeni Ossinovski is written in the title of this inquiry. Here's the question. We have been approached by Estonian rural tourism companies who have talked about unreasonably harsh requirements for an in-depth analysis of water from wells. This analysis is expensive. It is alleged that this is another "subordination" to the Euro Directive. This amount, EUR 1000, which may seem less significant to a tourist operator in the capital, is a lot of money for a rural tourism company. We've written down questions. For example, for what reason have small businesses been subject to such costly and weakly justified verification requirements, which hinder entrepreneurship and are likely to lead to jobs from the countryside as well? We look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U3	Thank you. There are no further requests for referrals of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes it according to the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, There are five items on today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of draft 261 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Organising a referendum on the plan for the redistribution of immigrants in the European Union' submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu member Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U5	Good morning, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and ladies and gentlemen. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It's okay, we need to go back to the factions, okay? In short, our draft decision. On 8 June this year, the Conservative People's Party Group submitted a draft decision according to which a referendum will be held on 23 April next year, where the following question of state life will be put to the vote: 'Do you agree that the Republic of Estonia will participate in the redistribution of immigrants to the European Union? ' I will take a closer look at this redistribution plan. On 22 September last year, a meeting was held in Brussels, where ministers of the Member States of the European Union agreed to redistribute 120,000 people in need of international protection between the Member States. In total, the countries are redistributing 160000 people on the basis of the current plan, of which Estonia's share would be approximately 550 people. This issue has given rise to very great controversy in society, to opposition and also to incite different parties to it. Our proposal would greatly help to remove this tension in society and give people the opportunity to say whether we should be involved in this plan and forcefully relocate people, some of whom do not want to come here and many of our people do not expect. We believe that the Estonian people should have the right to have a say in this matter because it concerns all Estonian society, not just the ministers of the Member States or the committees that have approved this decision. Speaking of law, it can be said that the organisation of a referendum is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the Treaties on which the European Union is founded. The question has constantly come up about how much this referendum would cost. It is approximately comparable to the cost of organising elections in the Riigikogu up to 2 million euros. However, for example, in this year's budget, some €7.5 million have been earmarked for the construction of refugee structures, so this 2 million is a rather negligible amount in the long term. At the same time, EUR 2 million is not a significant amount of money to create cohesion in society and to cut down very high tensions. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs asked for a legal analysis and assessment of this draft. Unfortunately, only the Estonian Refugee Council and the Estonian Human Rights Centre responded. When I am talking about the points in this response that deal specifically with our draft (the answer was given on the draft initiated by both the Central Party Group and the one that we dealt with last week and our draft), it is worth pointing out that even the Estonian Human Rights Centre has issued an opinion on our draft and has made a legal assessment that international, European Union or national law does not give rise to a legally binding obligation to participate in the redistribution of refugees. The Riigikogu has basically the right to put this question to a referendum. It is therefore also impossible to say demagogically that we cannot hold a referendum because we are forced to be bound either by the Convention on the Status of Refugees or by other legal agreements that we cannot renounce. Therefore, there are no grounds for not organising a vote. Right now, that's all I have to introduce you to. I'm waiting for questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U6	Thank you. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U7	Thank you. Dear waitress, Studies have been carried out, more or less public opinion is known. On the one hand, the people would like some questions to be given to them, and on the other there is great fear. But more specifically, have you examined the matter with such an eye that, if a referendum had taken place, what would theoretically have been the result? How many of those who would have participated in it would have answered yes and how many would not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U8	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The only data we can rely on are public opinion studies carried out by social research institutions or even by media publications that do surveys on this subject. Let's look at their records. Depending on the methodology, depends on the number of people interviewed and depends on who has done the survey, but 70.90% of the Estonian people have expressed a very strong consensus that we should not participate in the redistribution process. This is a very important fact why a referendum should be held, which would also be legally and legally binding and give an adequate picture of the attitude and opinion of society. That would be a very good point of reference for future decisions. So no one knows the official number of us. We can only present the hypothesis of how many of these people can be, and this range is 70 to 90%.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U9	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U10	Thank you. Dear waitress, The countries of the European Union are divided into several groups on this issue. There are some who are getting smarter afterwards, such as Sweden, which at first was incredibly liberal, but when the trouble was in the house, it started to block the influx of refugees. Brexi was very well shown by his attitude. There are countries that will definitely put in place refugee policies, such as Hungary and Poland, but there are also those who say that they will be done and that they will follow arbitrary orders. Do you believe that by means of such a referendum, the Estonian state could really be made independent and self-decided on the issues that concern it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U11	Thank you, good questioner! I think that would be a big step forward. However, this would be a precedent if the issue of decisions taken by the European Union was put to a referendum, which is also legally binding, i.e. the result must in any case be observed. I think that if this precedent were to become a habit, it would certainly give a new direction to the development of us and the European Union as a whole. Let us look at the mindset of other countries, which has changed over time. You brought out Sweden. Sweden's neighbouring countries Finland, Denmark and Norway have all started to implement a more conservative migration policy. Sweden scolded its neighbours last year that they were not humanistic enough and did not want to help refugees. However, it turned out that the neighbouring countries were far more foresighted and took more account of the sense of society and the risks that could arise when crossing a certain line and creating a very large conflict within society that could escalate. Only two or three days ago, for example, it was fired in Malmö. Such cases are everyday in Sweden. We do not hear that such things are, for example, a daily phenomenon in Copenhagen or Finland. When it comes to other countries, the Council of Ministers voted against this decision. a on 14 September 2004 four countries: Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. Unfortunately, the European Union is such a nice and beautiful place where a qualified majority, i.e. at least 55% of the countries that make up 60% of the European Union's population, will decide in the same way, it will also be mandatory for the remaining 45% of the countries and they will have to comply with this decision. So, when it comes to volunteering, it's not really there. Even if Estonia had been the fifth voter, this decision would still have become mandatory for us, and Estonia should have gone to the European Court of Justice with these four countries for its rights, which fortunately these four countries did. How this thing ends and what the judgment is, we do not know yet, because it is still pending. It merely shows that if the current course continues, we will not be surprised if there is a broader spirit in Europe, which strongly criticises the European Union and its policies. The fact that 17 million people in Britain decided to leave the European Union is simply the result of this very bad work. If you analyze the reasons why we came to this, I'd say the next one is either Nexit or Frexit or some third one.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U12	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! You certainly know that we are told how there is no reason to panic, because only 60 refugees have come to Estonia and have been accepted here, with all of them we can manage perfectly and integrate them into our society and cultural space. Against this background, the question arises, which is why a referendum is needed at all, when everything is so beautiful and rosy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U14	Thank you, good questioner! If I took your question seriously, it would seem like it came from the people on my left. There are certainly people who think that there is no need for a referendum, that there is too much direct democracy, that is evil and that is Satan, and that power must be concentrated in this Chamber as much as possible. Fortunately, I understand your irony and your questioning around the corner. I think that there is no reason to panic in society now if we act wisely and foresight, as the Estonian people have always done throughout history, unlike rulers or very many delegates. When it comes to 60 people who have been relocated, it is clear that 60 people are not, of course, still rocking the sovereignty or survival of the Estonian state, but it is a matter of principle. If we set a precedent by agreeing to accept people who have arrived in the European Union illegally with the help of human smugglers, then it must be taken into account that these people are unlikely to be as successful in integrating into this society as the people of our neighbouring countries, due to cultural and religious origin. Therefore, I think that any person who has been relocated through this mechanism would rather deepen the current situation, where it is entirely acceptable that people arrive in the European Union, violate the rules of the Schengen visa space, use the help of illegal human smugglers and pay them $1 000 to 3 000 per person. It is not acceptable in any way that we are involved in such human trafficking and human trafficking, because there are still several million people on the other side of the border waiting for the first chance of becoming a European Union, or a golden berryland. Our participation in this is, in my view, totally unacceptable. But we need firm information on how many members of society support such a policy and how many do not support it, and the only way to find out is by referendum. After that, no one would have the opportunity to say that his study shows that so many still support the reception of immigrants or refugees or that so many do not. It's all pure speculation right now, nobody knows the exact number. The referendum is the only legitimate way to find out, and I think it is absolutely inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U15	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U16	Good manager! Good waitress! In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we decided to kill this bill, as did a similar proposal from the Centre Party. So there's a public kill ahead. You collected nearly 40,000 Estonian signatures last year, but it doesn't seem to matter. The referendum would cost EUR 2 million. I shared it with 40,000. If every person who wants a referendum paid EUR 200, the money would be together for the referendum. Do you think it is real that anyone who is concerned will contribute EUR 200 and the referendum money will be together?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U17	Thank you, good questioner, for a good question. I think that there are far more people who want a referendum. The question is whether a person should pay for the opportunity to participate in a referendum, because he dared to sign it. At the same time, there are other people who would have liked to sign. For example, there were a lot of people in the field who would have liked to sign, but they had a sense of fear in the back of their heads that if they publicly sign somewhere, especially the page of the Conservative People's Party, who was demonised and made into the embodiment of the devil in Estonian society, they would not know what would happen. So we don't know the exact number of people who wanted to sign. We do not know exactly how many people would like to express their opinion in a referendum or referendum. There may be 200,000 or 300,000 of them, but it's all speculation. I think that even those people who signed up to almost 40,000 of them have a legal right to take part in deciding on matters of state life without paying any extra charge. As we know, they are all citizens of the Republic of Estonia who pay taxes to the Republic of Estonia and assume that due to these taxes they will be able to live in a democratic republic that takes into account their opinion and the wish of the majority, which will determine the future of the Estonian state. Therefore, I think that asking for 200 euros from every person who has signed it is not appropriate in any way, because these people may care more about the Estonian state than any other, and have already paid 200 euros as taxes several times over the years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U18	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U19	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Dear waitress, I would point out that this referendum would cost 2 million euros in the middle, but political parties receive almost 5.5 million euros each year from the state. With this money, we could have two referendums a year. Nothing would happen if political parties did not receive this money and it would go for the development of direct democracy. Last week there was a draft from the Centre Party, which also requested a referendum on immigration. The co-rapporteur from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who is also a co-rapporteur today, explained to us at length and in depth how the Geneva Convention will in no way allow us to restrict the entry of refugees into Estonia. Was that what we said about our bill in the committee, and what do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U20	Thank you, Reverend Asker! This issue was not raised in the debate on our draft, as it does not violate any of the conventions. The only thing that goes against is the agreement of the ministers of the Member States of the European Union, because it allows the Court of Justice to be brought before it within two months. Since two months have passed, this scheme, which has already been approved and which provides for about 550 people to be placed in Estonia, can no longer be brought to court for legal reasons. However, our draft is also well known to be a forward-looking objective, because 160,000 people who are being reallocated in the European Union are only one drop in the human sea that arrived in Europe last year. Hundreds of thousands more have come this year. Therefore, the crisis has not passed, the aim of this crisis has now moved towards the North African coast, and the main pressure is now on Italy. So it is only a matter of time before a mechanism similar to that on the table comes back. If we had already had a legally binding referendum result, for example, if the referendum had said that we should not participate in the redistribution mechanism within the European Union, then our participation in such a redistribution would have been ruled out in the future, if 51% of people had said, yes, we have to participate, it would also be binding on us and we should be involved. The Geneva Convention was primarily at issue at the debate on the draft tabled by the Centre Party Group. Of course, there are questions. However, as the Centre Party Group said, and as I myself emphasised last week, it would have been more reasonable to send this draft to second reading. It would then have been possible for all political groups to propose amendments in order to clarify this draft and to adapt it to precisely regulate which migrants would be subject to the referendum proposed by the Centre Party Group. Secondly, I will, of course, mention what was said last week, that is, the spirit of the so-called era of conventions. We have been told many times that the spirit of the era must be the basis for the interpretation of laws or even the constitution of the Republic of Estonia. This was mainly due to the presidential campaign and the requirements for the candidate for President. One legal scientist also claimed last week that we must take into account the spirit of the era. I think that we should now reflect on the spirit of the Geneva Convention, or the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees, as reflected in 1951. This spirit of the age seems to have changed so dramatically that the situation that led to the Convention's objectives at that time has long since ceased to exist. This Convention is systematically abused. Therefore, it is something that should be considered boldly, and it must not be cramped that this or another subject cannot be dealt with, because it goes against this convention. We need to see how to ensure that people's sense of justice is protected and, at the same time, that the Convention is applied to the spirit of the age.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U21	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U22	Thank you! Good performer! You are putting refugees, economic migrants and other people who want to come to the European Union in a pot of self-confidence. You call them all illegals and recommend that the Geneva Convention, the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees, be interpreted in accordance with the spirit of the age. You may understand the spirit of the age the same way, but others may have different concepts of the spirit of the age. Do you think it is possible to interpret international law according to purpose, the spirit of the age, or your understanding? How does the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia state whether it can be done this way or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U23	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I'll start with the definition of a migrant. We haven't called them all illegals. Migrants include refugees, economic migrants and migrants for other reasons. They're all migrants. The question is how we define them. Have they received international protection and go under the Convention on the Status of Refugees? If they don't go under it, there are other migrants, such as economic migrants. As far as the redistribution of these people is concerned, there is no point in talking about economic migrants at all. I believe that the majority of the countries I do not have in front of the figures at the moment, how many countries would support it and how much would not support it, and how much would it not support their redistribution. As far as helping refugees is concerned, of course, from a personal point of view, I am very sorry for them. However, as Hungary has also pointed out, the best way to help real war refugees, who also go under the definition of refugee in the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees, is still to do so in refugee camps near their home. I've been there myself. It is true that decent living conditions are guaranteed in the short term until an international agreement can resolve the crisis that is currently in Syria or possible future crises in other countries. So redistribution, as such, in no way solves the refugee problem and the real problem of helping war refugees. With regard to the spirit of the era and the interpretation of the UN Convention, I must immediately note that the spirit of the age came to mind in connection with the violent will to interpret the Constitution according to the spirit of the age. I fully agree with you that we cannot make it so that you interpret the spirit of the age in the same way and I in a different way. There are certainly dozens more who interpret the spirit of the age in ten different ways. But could we raise the question that the UN might consider amending this convention to some extent? That it is not that I read the spirit of the age out of it, that we should not receive migrants, for in my opinion the spirit of the age does not contain it, but you think we should receive them, because you read it again, that according to the spirit of the age we should do it. The question is whether we dare raise the issue that this Convention should be amended at all. The question of whether we should change the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia is also often an issue. The Constitution was amended as regards the reduction of the electoral age. It was done. My question is whether we should go directly to the Constitution of the Republic in order, for example, to change the order of the presidential election, or whether it is only enough to amend the Act on the Election of the President of the Republic. That's the question. If you realized that I myself wanted to interpret a paragraph of the convention or what was said in the convention arbitrarily according to the spirit of the age, then no. I would like to say that, if a number of countries still think so, the Convention could be amended, because it does not currently involve dealing with the problems for which this Convention was drawn up at all. The Convention was formed after World War II when there were millions of people fleeing repression and occupation. This convention is being abused now because we can no longer control whether or not some people are going under this convention. Perhaps the control mechanism is very weak and therefore does not fulfil its objective. It was my idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U24	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U25	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! One of the political objectives is undoubtedly to explain the will of the people and to shape policies on this basis, but the other is to find effective measures for the refugee crisis. Do you have any examples of successful measures? For example, have negotiations with Turkey moved forward and the situation of refugee camps improved? Do you see any clear measures that work when dealing with the refugee crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U26	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Speaking of Estonia, I think we have given the maximum that we can. Looking at the economies of the Member States of the European Union, we are in sixth place among the European countries that have contributed to the operations of the Mediterranean with their teams, with their financial resources and also with their helicopters. So we have made a huge contribution to help resolve the migration crisis in the Mediterranean. As regards, in general, how to help solve the refugee problem, the most real option that can be, indeed, is how we pay in solidarity for the maintenance of refugee camps. For example, in September last year, 80,000 people lived in the Zamar refugee camp in Jordan. The area of this camp is four times four kilometres, there are trade streets, hospitals, schools, even football trainings. Everything has been done to ensure that people have as decent a life as possible there before they can return home to Syria, 20 kilometers away. When I was there, the main problem was that the World Food Organisation could no longer pay for food, because their budget was negative, and they could no longer fund the food programme. At the same time, Sweden has increased its budget by SEK 24 billion to around EUR 2.5 billion in admission costs for migrants. That is the fundamental question of what crisis we are channeling the resources of the Member States of the European Union into, whether it is to resolve that we cannot control our borders and so-called naively and ferociously welcome everyone who comes and we are trying to accommodate them here, or whether we are trying to help those refugees who are refugees and who no one is saying that they want to come to Europe, but who are saying that they want to go back home. That is a matter of principle. The agreement with Turkey, as I can see, contains a great many points that are not acceptable to all the Member States of the European Union. I hope that these are not acceptable to Estonia either. Visa liberalisation with Turkey, for example, is one of the conditions. I think that this is a very high security threat and we should not accept it. Secondly, this agreement had been reached in advance only as an agreement between Germany and Turkey. When the French found out, it was a great surprise that there was some sort of agreement behind their back that they might not even agree with. Turkey is currently purely playing with its agreements. If you pay EUR 3 + 3 billion for Turkey to stick to its borders and not overwhelm Greece with refugees, it actually shows double standards. On the one hand, the European Union is saying that there must be human rights, a living environment and assistance for refugees, but at the moment we are willing to pay EUR 6 billion to Turkey to keep its borders and to keep these people in place. No one talks about human rights or the creation of living conditions for refugees anymore. It shows an attitude. Similarly, two years ago, when the civil war was already in Syria, no one in the European Union spoke publicly that there was a civil war and there were very many refugees who had fled to Lebanon and Jordan. It was a third-rate issue. But when the border stopped and the Greeks and Italians began to let refugees in, it was suddenly the biggest problem in the world that had to be resolved immediately. The only mechanism and the most effective mechanism that could be devised was a joint and several redistribution. I was puzzled by this, and I think it showed an attitude. As long as the problem isn't at our door, let him be there somewhere, but if the door gets knocked down, maybe it's a problem for all of us, not just for the one that was hit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U27	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U28	Good deputy speaker! Good speaker! You're talking about two things here. One is the European Union's programme for the redistribution of immigrants and the other is the Geneva Refugee Conventions. The Geneva Conventions are, in some ways, valid international law. This redistribution plan is not directly linked to it. The current international law of which Estonia is a party is not, in my opinion, so easy to put to the referendum. Very many legal experts believe that the Geneva Conventions can be out of date. I'm totally ready to discuss this. But would it not be possible to find a more constructive way than to put it to a referendum in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U29	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I must say that the spirit of the Geneva Convention era, or its validity or possible amendment, was at issue in connection with the Centre Party's draft, which was pending last week. The question was whether their draft was compatible with the Convention or whether there might have been an infringement. It was in the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and it was stated that if this draft went to second reading, it should be clarified in order to bring it into line with the Convention. Our draft has nothing to do with any possible violation of the Geneva Convention, nothing at all. Participation in the mechanism for the redistribution of refugees does not in any way concern the Geneva Convention. Even the Centre for Human Rights could say that. I would have assumed that a more neutral law firm or, for example, the Chancellor of Justice could have sent us an expert opinion, but whatever it is, we can accept that. Even they, as I said, state that there is no legally binding obligation under international, European or national law to participate in the redistribution of refugees. The Riigikogu therefore basically has the right to put this question to a referendum. There is no violation of the Geneva Convention if, on the basis of our draft, we question whether or not we should participate in this redistribution mechanism. Are there any more constructive options to address this issue? Yes, I think it would be a constructive opportunity for us to take more account of the spirit or opinion of society on this issue. At first, the public was told that the maximum number of people we should receive under the redistribution mechanism is about 150 people, but then this figure rose to 180 people and after a few months to 550. The fact that the figures are nearly four times larger shows how reliable this member of the Riigikogu you have chosen, or the government you should trust, or the Prime Minister whom we should trust as a representative of our country in the institutions of the European Union. This inevitably raises doubts and doubts. Yes, in answer to the question, I think there would be more constructive options if we were to take greater account of public opinion. However, the problem arises as to how we determine precisely the number of people who determine the public opinion on which survey or opinion poll we base here. All these polls are somewhat subjective, we can't say that one is more accurate than the other. As mentioned earlier, it depends entirely on the methodology, the contracting authority and third things. I think that, in terms of direct democracy, the most democratic referendum would be, but if we could take more account of the public mindset, which is subjective, it would also be possible to address this issue more constructively.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U30	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U31	Good President! Good speaker! I am delighted that you introduced a term such as "the spirit of the age," which belongs to Hegel, and brought here such a philosophical depth. But the question is simple, about one detail. You mentioned that there were short-term conditions for being in a refugee camp. What do you mean,'short-term', one, five or ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U32	Thank you, Reverend Asker! For example, Zamar's refugee camp has been in mind for up to three or four years. This could be the time during which the main military conflict in Syria will be resolved and people will then have the opportunity to return to their homeland. What'short-term' means exactly is not defined anywhere in the law. That is another opinion, but we hope that if people have to live in a refugee camp in the short term, then this time may be six months or a year, but it could be three or four years in the same way. In the 1940s it was thought that'short-term' meant maybe a few years, but it turned out to be 50 years instead. So this'short-term' isn't exactly defined anywhere, whether it's for years or months. I think these conditions are set up there for three or four years. This is a vague definition of how long it would take to resolve the conflict in Syria.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U33	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Mart Nut, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its regular meeting on Monday 12 September. No visitors from outside the Riigikogu were invited to the debate. The Commission received a comprehensive overview of the draft by Jaak Madison, representative of the initiators. Basically, he introduced the same questions and approaches that are currently being introduced in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, which I have no reason to go over again. I'm going to pass on a few thoughts that were published during the debate. Member of the Commission Andre Sepp said that the draft explanatory memorandum stated that the day for holding a referendum could be 23 April 2017. He asked if this time was enough for the campaign and who would cover the costs. Jaak Madison replied that the campaign meant primarily information from different parties with a different understanding of the issue. The campaign may also be carried out by organisations that inform the public why Estonia should participate in the redistribution of immigrants, and by those interest groups who consider that Estonia should not participate in it. Such time is an opportunity for the people to know the facts and arguments so that the decision can be made consciously. There was no information about the funding for the campaign and the referendum at the time, which we received later. In his presentation, the rapporteur mentioned that it was in the order of EUR 2 million. Member of the Commission, Lauri Luik, asked that if the people did not agree to participate in the reallocation, the author considered that this would have a retroactive effect. After all, Estonia now knows the order of magnitude within which Estonia operates and helps the people who arrive here. In this case, should those who have already arrived in Estonia be sent back? Distributors' representative Jaak Madison replied that laws cannot be made retroactively, and that commitment, which has been made, the redistribution of 550 refugees, must be implemented because it can no longer be withdrawn. Thus, the result of the referendum would still affect new decisions. There were also some questions relating to the relationship between this draft and the draft referendum launched by the Centre Party last week. However, since the previous bill has already been rejected by a decision of the Riigikogu, I am not spending any more time on it right now. Mart Nutt, Member of the Commission, asked that if the people answer the question put to the referendum with the draft, would that mean that Estonia could not participate in the voluntary redistribution of immigrants. Jaak Madison replied that Estonia could no longer participate in the voluntary redistribution of immigrants. Mart Nutt felt that this draft should be subject to legal expertise, because if, as a result of the referendum, the people decide that Estonia should not participate in the redistribution of immigrants from the European Union, it is not clear whether Estonia will be able to fulfil its obligations under international law in the future. The rapporteur, Jaak Madison, introduced this expertise, which was carried out by the Human Rights Centre. What do I think is the possible impact of this referendum? If the people say yes in the referendum, the situation will remain the way it is today. This means that Estonia can participate in the redistribution process. The only problem that arises is probably the costs. If the referendum also says no experts have confirmed that such a referendum can be held, it does not violate any international legislation, then Estonia must not participate in the redistribution of immigrants on a voluntary basis. This 'opportunity' is then taken away from the national authorities, as the results of the referendum are known to be mandatory for the country. In my opinion, this is more flexible in the current procedure, because this decision is made by the Government of the Republic, but it cannot do so alone, but it must do so in conjunction with the Commission on European Union Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs was generally of the opinion that such a mechanism would be sufficient, it would be flexible. Can the result of the referendum cause problems for Estonia in the future? This may probably happen if European Union law changes in this area, because then Estonia may not be able to fulfil the result of the referendum. In that case, a new referendum must probably be held, and we cannot talk about the result now. But it's all a theory that at the moment there's no reason to talk about it any further. President Kalle Laanet proposed that the draft be sent to first reading by 27 September, i.e. today, with the proposal to reject the draft. There were 6 votes in favour and 5 against, with no abstentions. By Kalle Laane, Mart Nutt, Andres Anvelt, Kalle Muuli, Lauri Luik and Andre Sepp, Anneli Ott, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Ernits, Jaak Madison and Jüri Adams were opposed. It was also proposed to appoint Mart Nutt as rapporteur for the draft, which was given in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U35	Thank you. You have questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U36	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good waitress! What I was aware of was that the decision of the people could cause problems for the government in the run. So the problem that we are actually talking about is that the government cannot ignore the clear opposition of the public to the idea of concessions to the European Commission with regard to the relocation scheme for immigrants. It does not matter whether it is voluntary or forced. In fact, we know that this mandate was voluntary for the government, but it was coerced. After all, the whole point of this bill goes away from whether the people can ban the government from pursuing a policy that is not supported by the absolute majority of the people. What is now the logic of the majority in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, why do we not give the people the opportunity to deny the government the implementation of policies that the people do not like, but do things that have been silenced in this very Parliament and do not give the people the floor? I don't understand that logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U37	Thank you. The decision to join the European Union was adopted in a referendum. The referendum gave a constitutional mandate in order to ensure that European Union law takes precedence. In today's state, the European Union has not put in place in its legislation a mechanism for compulsory redistribution. But the people have given a mandate with the Treaty on European Union so that the European Union can change it with its internal rules. If the decision to be put to a referendum goes against an earlier referendum, I would say that the legal force is in an earlier referendum which substantially changed the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U38	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U39	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! I'm gonna ask you more specific. You mentioned that if the answer comes in the referendum so that we do not have to participate in the redistribution, this could prove to be a problem in the future if the treaties of the European Union change. I couldn't agree more. However, if the treaties of the European Union, which contain either the principles of free movement of people, the possibilities of resolving the migration crisis or the possibilities of transferring unprecedented pressure from certain Member States to other Member States, are to change, it is, figuratively speaking, a permanenced redistribution mechanism. Would that be a sufficient argument that the 2003 mandate is no longer valid? If we started by amending these treaties, which may be a problem in the light of the answer to the referendum, is that also an argument for organising a referendum where one might ask whether we should move forward in the current European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U40	Thank you. The result of the previous referendum is valid, but yes, it raises the question of whether Estonia can go along with the next EU treaties without amending the Constitution. That question will probably be raised. However, if the decision is taken by qualified majority, even if Estonia is against it, it is mandatory for Estonia to comply with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U41	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U42	Thank you, Sire. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but I haven't heard anything so ridiculous from such a respected person here in the Riigikogu as if the Estonian people had given a blank note for any decision when they joined the European Union. That's a completely ridiculous statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U43	I'm sorry, but I never said that!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U44	A moment ago, this was exactly the sort of thing that when we entered the European Union, we agreed with everything that would come. But my question is completely different. The question is that you are excluding a referendum, but at the same time we know that the government has repeatedly said that there is no immigration ceiling in Estonia, it is not going to be set. The government has removed a clause from the basic document of Estonia's European Union policy, which prohibited the acceptance of...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U45	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U46	What, then, is our future in this context if the people are not allowed to decide and the decision remains in the hands of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U47	Thank you. I have already pointed out the current mechanism, which provides that the government cannot decide this without Parliament. It must make this decision to come to the Committee on European Union Affairs. In my opinion, and also in the opinion of the majority of the Commission, this is sufficient in the current situation to resolve the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U48	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U49	My question relates to one of your previous answers. To be honest, I do not agree that when the Estonian people entered the European Union, they gave up the right to deal with their own affairs in their own country. In this, you and I are fundamentally opposed. I think Estonia has the right to decide its own matters. But now it is the case that the refugee movement has created problems which are considered demographically existential in many countries and in many nations (Austria, Hungary and Poland, Visegrád group at all, etc.). I have a question for you. When we went to the European Union, we introduced a safeguard clause. If, for example, this safeguard clause is not working very well at the moment, you said it should not work, just give me an example so that I can understand the problem in which the safeguard clause could work. Then I understand what it means.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U50	Thank you. It must be difficult to construct this problem on the foot like this. But, for example, in a situation where the European Union obviously exceeds the powers of subsidiarity, I think this safeguard clause is very much in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U51	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U52	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by answering Mr Helme. Searching for logic in this hall is a hopeless process. It's not just in this hall, it's our life. Let me give you an example. Two months will explain Estonia, the whole country, who is the best presidential candidate. Hundreds of articles, thousands of interviews, television debates, discuss who dresses and who talks. Even phrenologists are invited to help. I hope I called these people right. These are the ones who look at your head, touch bumps, and then tell me who's worth something and who's not. They're definitely saying these four don't fit, but this... Then comes some of the expressions that he is a valuable gem in the narrow group of our politicians, followed by seven expressions, the most modest of which is perhaps a 'bright polemic' or something like that. People have been given the opportunity to introduce themselves, but unfortunately, the elections fail, and then they come and they say that it is absolutely necessary to choose, choose anyone, agree and choose, damn it, because it doesn't mean anything to be president anyway. I don't know where that logic is. People outside this hall don't understand it either. But now to the bill. The Estonian Centre Party Group does not support voting it out. We object to this for two reasons. Two problems have been identified in this draft. One is financial. This referendum is worth 2 million, it is so huge money and where to take it. I'll tell you where to take it. Take and read the reports of the Auditor General, see the audits of the National Audit Office. It was only in the spring that you were told how the Government of the Republic, without documents, took a series of decisions about Estonian Air, which led to 79 million euros being thrown into the trash. Listen, we need to get 2.5% back from those who took those decisions that were economically absolutely pointless. So the financial side isn't everything. Secondly, as far as the process itself is concerned: is there a need to ask the people a question or should it not be done? Yes, I do. People know better, people have much more pragmatism and logic than we have in this Chamber. People understand that once we and our allies from NATO and the United States have started moving democracy around the world, this process will never end. This means that there are more, more and more refugees. You may not have liked Saddam Hussein. Yeah, a dictator, yeah, it's a little low, isn't it? I didn't. In 2003, we started bombing on a fictional pretext. As a result, we received some 300,000 supporters from the Islamic State, with Iraqi professional soldiers forming its core. If it was a desire to spread democracy, why did it cost 800,000 civilians their lives? Maybe we should think about what we're doing and what the results are. Gaddafi did not like it either, nor was he a pro-Western democracy. No one looked at the fact that Libya had the highest standard of living... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U53	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U54	...that this country was a leader in all spheres of social life in North Africa. We are taking a lot of democracy there, basically to keep planes and bombs going. What did we get? Thirty-five thousand bodies, a few million fugitives. There are now two puppet countries instead of Libya who are fighting each other. Nobody cares anymore. Democracy has been delivered, do what you want with it. Now Syria. We don't like Assad, I personally don't like him, he's the kind of anti-Semit that a normal person can't like. But this country, just like Libya, Egypt and Iraq, was the border that held on to the huge crowd that dreams of living in Europe. At this point, it seems that this process will never end. This year, this wave was managed by an agreement with Erdogan, but this agreement is not being honoured. He got some little money, but he didn't get what he needed. Now he's become a dictator again. We don't like him, don't we? He's in the middle of agitation. He may or may not like him, the countries are like that and the other one doesn't like him, but that doesn't give you any reason to go there with a gun. I'll come back to this bill. In Africa and the Middle East, God forbid this will ever happen in Asia. The desire to impose democracy on those who do not wish to do so is so great and the need to use weapons that they can produce new ones, and to be of great benefit, is also so huge that these processes will not end, I think, never. Estonia needs to prepare for the first wave that was discussed, the first thousands to be redistributed, right, which we will have 550 or how many there were in the sea. Everything's still ahead. Before you start taking those stupid and illogical decisions at Stenbock's house, ask the people what he thinks about it. If Poland and Hungary can afford national politics, then Estonia is also worthy of its national policies. I would remind you that there are problems with the Russians who have lived here for decades and even hundreds of years, most of them cannot be agreed in any way. But what happens when the new Miguels are in tens and hundreds of thousands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U55	Thank you. Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U56	Can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U57	Yeah. 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U58	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, This topic is at the same time specific and abstract. Abstract is in the sense that we are talking about sovereignty, we are talking about direct democracy, we are talking about who has the right to decide what in Estonia. We are talking about this, but at the same time we are also talking about specific people, specific figures, specific policies. Last year, the Conservative People's Party collected 40,000 signatures calling for a referendum on immigration. Of course, Estonian laws ignore whether you have 40,000 signatures or have more or less, but this is one of the highest number of signatures that have been made in re-independence in Estonia, and I just think it is exceptionally skin-only. When the government says that we have voluntarily decided to join this quota refugee mechanism, which we euphemistically call the European Union's redistribution plan, there is, of course, nothing voluntary here. Those European countries that did not join it voluntarily are currently being tried by the European Commission, because the European Commission considers that this is also mandatory for them. But there are still some things left to scratch very much about the debate that took place in the Commission and still in this Chamber. First of all, it is extremely wrong to claim that in 2003 Estonia joined the European Union with the support of a referendum, and now we have nothing more to say on any issue. That's not true. As Mr Gräzin pointed out, we first entered the European Union with a sovereignty clause. If this safeguard clause is not applicable to the ESM issue, as we have learned, if it is not applicable to immigration, as we are now trying to clarify, or as the government's position requires, then this safeguard clause means nothing. This means that we no longer have a small amount of sovereignty left, only some of its rudiments. Our party does not agree that we gave up sovereignty completely, permanently and irreversibly in 2003. In particular, on issues with extremely long-term impact, such as population migration, Estonia must clearly have control. Now that Estonia has it, who has it? Our answer is clear: this is such an important issue that the people must be consulted. That means a referendum. If Estonian citizens, Estonian citizens, say indeed that no, they do not participate in the redistribution plan, no, they do not agree with the quota refugees prescribed by the Commission, that is exactly what is happening. The government has been deprived of any leeway on this issue; the government must not accept this precept. That is exactly what Mart Nutt said: in the future, the government will have no right and no power to accept such proposals, plans or decisions. That is what we want to achieve, so that the resistance of the people is clearly fixed, so that the sovereign can put his will into effect. As a sovereign, I recall, there is no government, there is not a parliament, not even a parliamentary committee, but a nation is a sovereign. The whole dispute is allayed by the fact that it is not intended to give the people the opportunity to ban the government's activities, which are seriously contrary to the opinion of the people. That's the whole argument, there's no other story. Let's forget about the 2 million euro talk, because we've got money going left and right. This week, we're going to be looking at next year's budget. Two million is such a negligible amount of money compared to what we have already spent on immigrants in the current year's budget. To come here to justify ignoring the opinion of the people is, to my mind, embarrassing to say the least. I am pleased that at least our draft does not go beyond international law. Indeed, no international convention, not even Europe's own treaties, obliges or can oblige Estonia to accept the quota system of the European Union. As we know, there are a whole range of European countries, not only in Eastern Europe, such as Hungary, Poland or the Czech Republic, but also in Denmark, for example, out of this approach. They are saying clearly: no, the European Union does not have the right to centralize immigrants, who we generously call refugees, but among whom there is actually a minority. So I don't think there are any compelling arguments. As Mr Stalnukhin said, we are not looking for logic. Well, let's not, it's politics, not logic. However, there is no compelling argument as to why not allow the people to say their word on this extremely important issue, which will affect Estonia's life for a very long time and perhaps irreversibly. Today, the coalition tells us that people do not have the right to interfere with the government from taking decisions that are being imposed on us from outside. This is, in my opinion, an exceptionally short-sighted approach to things. Firstly, the government has chosen the wrong side, towards the external forces, not towards its own people. Second, he goes against the will of the people. If we even think about what happened last weekend, we will see that this form of government, this form of policy-making, has actually reached a dead end in Estonia. I call on everyone to support the discussion with the people on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U59	Thank you. There are no more requests from the political groups, so I will conclude the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 261 at first reading. We are going to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the commission to reject the draft decision 261 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 14 against, with 4 abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. The first item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U60	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities' by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask an oral question during the debate on this item. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U61	The President-in-Office said wrongly that this draft was initiated by the Centre Party. In fact, it's the Reform Party's initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U62	I'm sorry if I was wrong! The Reform Party Group, indeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 20 September 2016. Jüri Adams, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Anneli Ott, Kalle Muuli, Urve Tiidus Lauri Luige as alternate members, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Ernits and Chairman of the Adviser-Secretariat Erle Eneveer took part in the committee meeting. The Commission reviewed the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of a Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities', initiated by the Reform Party Group. 286 As we know, our colleague Martin Kukk left the office of a member of the Riigikogu of his own accord. The Reform Party Group has therefore proposed the appointment of Mr Peep Aru as a new member of the Special Committee instead of Mr Martin Kuke. Erle Eneveer also explained that the Bureau of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting amendments on 20 September at 10 a.m. No amendments to the draft were received. I proposed that the draft be sent to the first reading of 286 by 27 September 2016 with the proposal to put the draft to the final vote. It was decided to put a draft decision on the plenary agenda by 27 September 2016 (consensually), propose a final vote (consensually) on the draft and appoint Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (consensually). Just to refresh my memory, we have changed our home and working procedures, so the draft decision will only be dealt with at one reading in this large Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U64	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Waitress! I'm asking for education. For example, does the appointment of a committee depend on the seat that if, for example, the MP who sat in the ninth row leaves the Riigikogu, the one who comes to his seat will take his place in that committee? Or are there other motives, why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U66	Thank you for your question. I don't think it has anything to do with a seat in the hall. Rather, it relates to who the political group decides to appoint as its representative to one committee or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U67	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 286. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' proposed by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party' 286. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 4 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U68	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I will briefly present the way this item is being dealt with. First, there is the author's presentation, which lasts up to 20 minutes. Then there are questions and then a presentation by the representative of the commission responsible for the draft, which will also last up to 20 minutes. Dear members of the Riigikogu, a single oral question can be asked to each of the rapporteurs. There will then be negotiations with representatives of the political groups and committees, and then a final vote will take place. I now ask for a presentation of a member of the Riigikogu, Märt Sultsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U69	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, We have such a proposal in the Teachers' Buffer Chamber. Following the current educational policies, we can see that the school's banner for the organisation of school life includes the closure of upper secondary school in schools and the concentration of upper secondary school education in state secondary schools. This leads to the disappearance of the so-called tube schools, which have dominated the educational market, i.e. schools with all classes, 1.12. Class one, he's in the same house. They are replaced by basic schools that are integrated into the centres of attraction in the counties. Joining should lead to an improvement in the quality of learning and the efficiency of teachers' work, but so far no one has defined what is effective work and how to measure it. It may happen that the merger of schools does not lead to an improvement in access to education, but rather to a deterioration. Currently, the average burden on teachers in general education schools is 0.82 posts. Thus, the entire Estonian faculty is working under pressure. The organisation of school life should result in the loss of one in five teachers who are still in general education. The question is, what is this underload? Almost no one is working under pressure, working with the agreed burden, but the underload, factor 0.82, has resulted from the seemingly increasing the pay of teachers by the state, while at the same time increasing the teachers' payroll fund, which actually reduces teachers' real wages all the time. Since no funds have been provided and if the job description states 35 hours but does not indicate the number of contact hours, people simply reduce the burden to keep the salary the same, even though the salary has risen. It's an interesting paradox that ordinary people don't even try to understand, but someone who's considered and had a little bit of experience with it has a very, very clear understanding of it. This illogical situation has arisen as a result of state policy when the teacher's salary is increased without really allocating resources. At the same time, the chronic under-load of natural resources as well as the teachers of electives is unsolved. Because of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, these teachers often do not have enough hours in one school and there is no equivalent substitute for the teacher's illness or parental leave. However, the resources of quality teachers are entirely available in Estonia. One of the solutions to the situation is that I propose a teacher's buffer. This term 'bufferhouse' can cause conflicting feelings. But I'm a real-life person, and I know that the word 'buffer' means such a stabilising situation. For example, in chemistry, buffer solution attempts to avoid sudden fluctuations between the alkaline and the acidic environment. So I kind of moved that word to social sciences, but it seems that the word, after the explanations, comes out of it, led to a misleading understanding. But all of this can be eliminated. In short, this would look like this. Teachers working under-time at school at least in the old days were senior pedagogues, and the state pays them by the number of hours they are short of full-time in their home school. The job is 35 hours, but there are 24 to 26 contact hours. However, if a person has only 18 hours, they are basically missing 6 to 8 hours from the state budget or the general pot provided by the local government for the salary of educators. Although the directors, schools and local governments do not have so much money, so that the fee for taking the teachers of the buffer chamber out of the common pot is like a bit of a fool and shortsighted. The teachers in the waiting time are ready to replace teachers who are sick or absent in other schools according to their professional qualifications. If you order a teacher today, he'll be here tomorrow. When this teacher is near, he can be reported and within 30 to 40 minutes he will be present. If no replacement has been ordered, these teachers are involved in developing methodological tools and testing them, preparing open hours, analysing teachers' results, optimising curricula, etc. In terms of effectiveness, the analysis and proposals of the buffer chamber are certainly more adequate than any analysis and proposal from the authorities, as the results of the analyses and proposals in the buffer chamber are directly linked to the reality of the situation and have been checked and tested on real-time students. Such a transfer would bring stability to both the faculty and educational institutions, would eliminate the concerns and stress of school leaders about teachers who are temporarily absent, and it would always be possible to take advice at school to organise pedagogical work without the need for additional resources. So that's the suggestion and the point. In other parts of the world, this system is in place, but since the Estonian economy is so small compared to the German or other national economy, we cannot use the German, Swedish or Finnish model much here. Where does the state get the money for this? The corresponding state-funded department is available in Innoves, and the resources available when it is closed are sufficient to maintain and maintain the buffer house. Additional resources would be provided by the state if further training for teachers were to be directed to the buffer shop, currently this money is frozen in the state budget. Even in the Committee on Culture, the decision that teachers' training money would go to the school directors was not allowed to be voted through; it remained with the Minister for Education and Research. Further training is best done from teacher to teacher, from practitioner to practitioner, so that the training is structured around practical professional experience and contemporary theoretical preparation. 'Contemporary' here means that the real situation in schools is slightly different from that described in some of the officials' reports. This task of continuing teacher training has not been addressed by the state. This has led to the fact that the current centralised refresher training is considered by teachers and school leaders to be a humour heading. That's the situation. In addition, there are teachers at almost every school who are qualified and licensed by the trainer, but the Ministry of Education does not want to count on it or use it as trainers. There is such a state-subsidised continuing training structure as the Pathfinder. It has completely failed. The explanatory memorandum to the bill states that the buffer house could be in the same room as the Pathfinder. This is simply said here to avoid the question of where the spaces for the buffer house are taken. You don't really need rooms for the Buffalo. (Sorry I'm always talking about the Cordon! The word is not cut into rock; the name may change.) The Buffer House requires an information system, a server and an administrator. There's nothing else we need, we need a coordinator and cooperation with schools. But how will this cooperation be with schools? On 20 September, the Committee on Culture organised an open session, attended by Margit Timakov from the Estonian Teachers' Association, Reemo Voltri and Aleksandr Tiidemann from the Estonian Educational Workers' Association, Toomas Kruusimägi from the Estonian School Leaders' Association and Kristi Mikiver, Head of the Teachers' Department of the Ministry of Education and Research. What's it come out of there? There this bill was presented and discussed. All the members and guests of the Commission acknowledged the existence of the problem and the necessity of resolving it. Proposals were also made, specifically on the organisational side. The most powerful suggestion was that the EHIS, or Estonian Education Information System, should first be repaired so that it reflects the actual and real-time occupancy of teachers. It turned out that at present the EHIS is not quite adequate, it does not show the ability of the teachers to carry out extra work. If the EHIS, or the information system, were to work properly, a teacher who wishes to participate in this substitute teacher project would be able to tick out that he is willing to give chemistry lessons, physics lessons or history lessons, whatever his specialty is, and he could also write down the number of hours he could give a week. You could write a schedule for that, the days when he can be a substitute teacher. It was stated that competence and willingness to move forward with the project exist in schools and in the teacher market, and so do people who do not work as teachers. They were worried about how to cover the transport costs of a substitute teacher when you have to move between several schools. In the county, school distances may be quite long. But how do these same teachers now move between the two schools? Just as much for your money, your car, or the bus and the troll. Imagine now the time it takes to travel from Valga to Pukka, for example, a distance of some 40 kilometers. Well, consider yourself, very, very cool! It was proposed that teachers be catalogued, i.e. the same EHIS form, so that those teachers who are willing to work on such a thing would be systematized. It was stated that short-term replacements can be handled by schools on their own, but long-term replacements for three weeks to three months have serious difficulties. It's true again, it's objective reality. The state has defined that the full load of teachers is a 35-hour working week, of which the number of contact hours has remained 24 to support specific agreements. I mean, the Educational Workers' Association claimed there were no 26 hours a week. This is not an objective reality again. By definition, there may also be 35 contact hours, which are not forbidden, depending on the school manager's way of organising the whole thing. If he doesn't have any money to pay, he's gonna keep getting more and more normal until he's in a perverse situation where the teacher really has to give 35 contact hours. Hence, schools have also written in the teacher's manual an obligation to give replacement lessons if necessary. I mean, if someone gets sick, they just say you're going to give her class. What about payback? Remuneration is included in the schoolteacher's general working hours. The general working time is once again a dispersal concept, it cannot be measured, but it has been written down, and so these replacement hours within the general working time are unremunerated. In particular, I would like to mention the performance of Toomas Kruusimägi, Chairman of the Estonian Association of School Leaders, which was full of inadequate and inappropriate issues and comments. This attitude, in my opinion, shows the toothlessness and untargetedness of this entire organization. As a former head of school, I can make an assessment. The members of the association include six schools, which were identified as offenders in the national audit, but the Community has not discussed these issues publicly anywhere. There hasn't been any hearing about it, but at the same time, the chairman takes the floor very, very loudly and resoundingly, if there is some sort of restructuring or other stuff, if someone is given responsibilities, given rights, or given tasks. As head of school, I would have been very willing to engage in these co-ordinations of substitute teachers and all these things if I had received permission from the Ministry of Education that this was not illegal. It has been asked why private capital does not create such a mediation system. Private capital has created a Pathfinder and it is a complete failure, even though the state does not want to admit it. It's a mess. Why does the school have to order 2.5 times the most expensive service, which doesn't guarantee quality yet, because the quality of the track forwarder doesn't guarantee it, he only ensures that this thing does happen, but what the result is, it's not guaranteed. So honor and fame in negative form to Toomas Kruusimägi for his excellent presentation! I would like to thank him right away for taking the trouble to come here and mentioning that all the drafts that come from the Centre Party must be taken very critically. At the same time, the School Leaders' Association s. A letter of 19 September 2008 states that the Estonian Association of School Leaders is ready for further cooperation in creating a system for replacing teachers. The same sentence precludes all his negative remarks and ridicules them. So it's really funny. Now, I'm gonna take the transcripts and I'm gonna talk about them. Margit Timakov noticed the contradiction. I don't know if it was my misrepresentation or my misrepresentation, which is why he had a question. Indeed, the state has introduced a 35-hour full-time and the question arises of how a lack of teachers can arise. In addition, the draft decision gives a mixed signal, it is not clear whether there are too many teachers in work or too many teachers in work in Estonia. Statistical reports arise in such a way that there are 24 students in primary school, 32 students in upper secondary school. Under these rules, the required posts are calculated. At the same time, it turns out that eight students are counted more than the upper secondary school teacher's. This is how these loads are calculated. Hence, the answer is that there are few teachers, there are not many. If these few remaining skills teachers are now gathered, this is a strategic threat for both the country and our future generations. You have to remember that. This must not be forgotten for one moment, because the state begins at school and kindergarten, but the school and kindergarten start at home. These are sacred connections, and it doesn't make sense to break them. Whoever does this is an uneducated person or lives without a knowledge of biology and social sciences. Kristi Mikiver pointed out that when talking about part - time, it must be very clear whether a person's free will is a chosen or a compulsive part - time. Furthermore, the head of school should not be charged with the task, responsibility and responsibility of ensuring full-time work for teachers. Certainly, working under pressure is often free will. After all, everyone writes in his employment contract about the load he is willing to work with. But in many schools, the situation is that, for example, in the 8th and 9th grade of comprehensive school, there are four chemistry classes a week and then you need a person for those hours. But you don't take a person for four hours, so you're gonna have to put those classes on someone's head. So it's definitely not compulsion to work undertime. However, full-time work is not compulsory either, because there is no money and the conclusion of a contract of employment is subject to mutual agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U70	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are many questions for you. Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U71	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to the bill states that a large number of teachers work part - time. Does the creation of a teacher buffer also provide a solution to the problems of working time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U72	Thank you. That's a good question. That's what the Buffalo offers. If the teacher has few hours in his specialty, he will no longer look for a school to go to, but will give the EHIS, the coordinator of the Estonian Education Information System or the Board of Buffalo, his wish and then he will be able to organise additional hours for him. At the same time, if he is registered in the Cordon, the State should have the obligation to pay him those hours missing from the agreed 24 hours or 26 hours for the purpose of this bill. This is the content of this bill: a person is on hold, waiting for the lessons of his profession, and at the same time the state will ensure that he does not go anywhere, I am sorry! be able to sneak around the city looking for other jobs. A very popular example in Tallinn is that teachers go to Selver shop to sell. Paradox!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U73	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U74	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The opinion of the Estonian Association of School Leaders states that the ideas of the Teachers' Board cannot be implemented, and the state is wasting money by creating such a system of substitute teachers. How do you feel about such criticism? Do you think that's justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U75	Thank you. A very precise and good question. I cannot take the opinion of the Estonian Association of School Leaders very seriously. Let's just say that replacement hours are one way of saving money in internal school accounts, because a lot of hours are not actually replaced, but if you make such a system of substitute teachers, the use of money becomes very transparent. For example, six schools in the centre of Tallinn and downtown have already been very cruelly mistaken against this rule by taking tuition fees through non-profit institutions. In this sense, the opinion that Thomas Kruusimägi has signed is not competent. This is about saving public money rather than spending it. You can't spend a thing that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U76	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You've been a schoolmaster for a long time. Please tell me more about how you, as director, solved these teacher replacement problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U78	Thank you. Good question. At 7:30 in the morning, I was at school and then phone calls started: Juta is sick, Mari is sick, Anna is sick. I sat down in front of my schedule, started watching someone run classes. Then I called Anna to e-mail me the questioning. He did, and then I sent a teacher working in a neighbor's office to give the children questions of repetition to sit down and answer them. A waste of meaningless resources and time, such an hour does not bear any fruit. In soft or narrating subjects, such as history or such, I do not underestimate these subjects! There is another way to make a person read a textbook, for example. But natural materials, such as chemistry and physics, have 1% profitability at such an hour. If a substitute teacher, a chemist, an astronomer, a biologist, a geographer could have been ordered from the buffer shop, the efficiency of this hour, or efficiency, would have been considerably higher and the money wasted, considerably less.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U79	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am very sorry that you have taken such an assessment of the views of the people who have expressed an opinion in the Commission. In fact, we invited them to the Commission to tell us how the school leaders' association is and how teachers are. The opinions are different. But my question actually concerns a more general problem. We are saying that the child is the most important and that we need to improve the image of the teaching profession. If and how can you see that a substitute teacher can give the child the most important thing that needs to be given at school when he or she may be replacing one, two or three hours?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U81	Thank you very much. Very good question and very good focus! But if there's an opinion on me and my bill, I'll take the courage to give my opinion. The thing is, imagine a picture when a Russian teacher comes to teach a chemistry lesson. The Russian teacher gives the assignments, he doesn't give a shit what the kids do in that class, the assignments are here and the next time they're assessed. But when the substitute teacher comes, everyone knows he's a chemist, a physicist or a geographer. Everyone knew when, for example, an English College physicist came to Tallinn Art High School. That's a whole other subject. Surely the effectiveness and emotional outcome of such a substitute teacher is much better than any substitute teacher who goes to class. Your penguin did shake his head, but the story is that a professional teacher orients in class in two minutes, he gets the class nicely and can give the class a nicely, easy class, I'm quite honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U82	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm sure it's a very necessary and a good idea, but it seems kind of rigid to me. What do you think if this solution were innovative, something app-based, so that all teachers and school leaders could participate there would be such a teacher exchange? The headmaster would put up there that he needed a chemistry teacher for the eighth grade in Kappa-Kohila somewhere in the third hour, and the teachers would say at what cost they'd be willing to go there. Of course, assuming they arrive on time. Then there would be such an understatement and a suitable teacher could be chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U84	Thank you very much. That's a very pretentious question. This buffer house isn't meant to be a job rental club. It is not meant that people voluntarily put themselves in the information system and who need it, it orders them. There is a waiting period, and I would like to say that, for example, I miss the fact that, in ancient times, teachers had compulsory open hours during the first three years of their work. During these classes, teachers quickly and effectively learned how to cope in different classes. It was very effective to be a pioneer in the pioneer camp for a month after the third course in the summer. That's where you got the water and the whistle, you had to deal with 30 rags for a month in a row. Those who became teachers had to have six months of school internship in actual classes. All of this is lacking now, and it is also lacking in the preparation of future teachers. Everything old isn't always bad, you should take over the good from the old and then go on, build it on your superstructure, and it's gonna work really well. But we're kind of bad and good, bad and good.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U85	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U86	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! The reason for my skepticism may be that, if I remember correctly, you've been sharing people working at school as teachers, educators and lecturers, standing right there on the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U87	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U88	I fully agree with this distribution, and I'm afraid that the system you're proposing favors the Honourers, the first two species we can't find there. My question, however, concerns a completely different area. When preparing this bill, have you studied the experience of countries other than Finland, and what can we learn from all of this? How is this problem solved elsewhere, because we are not alone in this world?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U89	Thank you very much for your question. When you noticed, I presented my thoughts quite slowly, and I never used a word other than 'teacher' to describe the person before the class. I didn't use any other words. Yeah, I've been studying other countries. In Germany, every four years the teacher has the opportunity to take one year's leave to supplement himself. The state's paying him up nicely this year. At the same time, there is a system for replacing teachers for a year, and someone else is replacing the person who is in the process of self-development. Norway is exactly the same. There you just call that I these physics and you'll have this physics there in an hour. These systems work elsewhere, but there is a different economy, different resources and resources. We don't have the means. We could do it, as Erki Savisaar said, on an app basis, but we cannot create a labour market here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U90	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I listened and watched how devoted and brilliant you talked about developing school life. That's a very, very welcome idea. A number of innovative solutions have been proposed here. But how did you even come up with the creation of such a house?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U92	Thank you for your question. That's a good question. This house, like this, has been in North Tallinn for years. North-Tallinn school principals have agreed to each other, and if anyone gets a problem in the morning, if a teacher is sick, it's an awfully quick call. Current phones allow for so-called meeting calls. Then there are three or four directors speaking at once, and that's how we borrow teachers from one place to another, to the one who's burning the most. But this system is too rigid and clumsy. You can't work like this, you don't get 200 heads of school to make a meeting call at once, and then somebody tells you he needs it or he needs it. It doesn't work like that. If it were to be done on an information system basis and with public assistance or support, such as using the Pathfinder's money more efficiently, and there would be one, two or three people waiting, then it wouldn't really cost anything, but the problems would go away. The magic of replacement hours, or lost money, would be all beautifully visible and all things beautifully readable, analyzed, and predictable. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U93	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mart Sults, waitress! You're a very long-term schoolmaster yourself. You've been talking a lot about substitute teachers here today. Would you bring out the substances where this shortage of teachers is greatest?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U95	Thank you, good questioner! That's a good question. The thing is, if you break down the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and look at the number of hours, you will immediately see how it is with natural subjects in primary school. Physics, chemistry, mathematics, geography, drawing, electives, all of them are only four to six hours a week. You don't get a teacher with that number of hours. At the same time, mathematicians have been torn apart because of the narrow and broad mathematics, some hours more, others less. One teacher must divide himself between one place, two place, and three place, and about six hours will be suspended. Where do you get a person after six hours? You don't make a literary teacher give mathematics lessons, a mathematician may be able to give a literary lesson, but the other way around, it's not possible. So if you look at basic school and upper secondary school law, it's precisely what's harder to acquire. They're like an orphan. There's no replacements there. That's where the buffer shop would work very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U96	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U97	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I think the idea has a complexion, but I'll give you a few examples. This year, teachers are the most concentrated in the country, so it is as if there are free teachers. It is clear that additional resources are needed to implement this idea. The average wage in Estonia rose to 1163 or 1165 euros, as I recall, but the teacher's salary goes away from the Estonian average. The government union's promise is to raise the Estonian teacher's average salary to 120% of the Estonian average. How do you think those two things are supposed to go together and where to find the money for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U98	Thank you. My speech said that one in five teachers must be dismissed, then the remaining teachers will have an increase in wages. According to current data, the teacher's minimum wage is EUR 958 per month. How to go up there, I owe you an answer. But I'm telling you, Tarmo, if you have to fill the Treasury, there are two places where the money will definitely be taken, these are social and educational. You can cut these places as many as you want, but you can't touch the rest of them. The sacred cow is somewhere else, education and social are not sacred cows. So their funding will decrease rather than increase. As far as this promise of 120% is concerned, it is not stated whether 120% of the payroll or 120% of the salary, these are two different things. Soon our bill for raising the pay of teachers will come to the hall, and it is said that the payroll and salary are completely different things. If the payroll is increased, the real wage will normally be reduced. So one day teachers were told not to want an increase in the payroll for God's sake, because then the money available will always be reduced, but the workload will increase. That's the approach. If it pleases you, thank you, Tarmo!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U99	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good March! This is a very innovative idea, but as we know, the innovative idea always has two sides. The atom bomb was innovative in its time, Pokémon's game is innovative, but all of it is consistently leading to mankind's demise. But there are also processes against them, times are changing and new innovations are emerging. What is your understanding, as an experienced teacher, of whether this teacher buffer thing is going to work or, after a certain time, a new and even more fun innovative idea that will nullify it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U101	Thank you, Viktor! Good question. The thing is, there's gonna be a risk in the other direction. This buffering has taken place since then, it's been for centuries. People have to be replaced when someone falls off, they'll be replaced. It's going to work this way, and it's going to be buffered anyway. A person is once that he works and doesn't work once. But why do we have to buffer what school leaders and lecturers have done so far to turn into such an insane rape? Buffering can be done easily and easily. We are proposing the option of making this awfully stressful and tense job easier: not by creating new regulations, but by making it easier and more accessible, so all you need to do is click the computer mouse and get the answer right away. The teacher's gonna call and ask what time he'll be here tomorrow, and that's all. Why do retired teachers who are very prone to substitute lessons need to be at home when they have spent their whole lives in soup and boiled at 120 degrees? (The air can boils at 100 degrees.) This teacher's been burning all the time, but now she's sitting at home and, I'm sorry, she's getting old really fast when she's not busy one day. This House is both a social measure and an educational measure in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U102	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U103	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I also think the idea you've come up with here is good and it's worth doing. You also said that in northern Tallinn, teachers have been essentially experimenting with this idea. Now, if it turns out that this idea is not being supported in this Chamber, what do you think there are any alternatives to making this idea come true, non-governmental variants, for example, that some teacher organisation is putting their backs together and doing it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U104	Thank you, Thomas, for a good question. No matter what this hall does, this thing will work. No matter what. This bill has been brought into the hall because this idea is not profit-making, i.e. it is not a business venture, and the interest of the state could be that the faculty is motivated and always busy, so that the teacher can be offered all kinds of options, how to earn extra or to be insured to some extent. What is important is that people, such as teachers, doctors, and everyone at all, do their job very well, and do so also for the reward that they are paid, which is not even paid, cannot be called pay, it is like a grant. It would be good if people who work selflessly and altruisticly from morning to evening, including weekends, could get credit from someone. What better than the state to recognize a man and pat him on the shoulder: 'You give him very well, go ahead. The children praise you, the parents want to come to you, and the country recognizes you. What else do you need? " That is the main goal: simplifying the complex task, making it handy, and at the same time giving the doers some kind of moral recognition that they are doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U105	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U106	Good manager! Good waitress, great idea! There are many occupations where more learned people than places. Nail technicians, for example, are ten times more than jobs. There could also be family nurses, family doctors, etc. But, as I understand it, the state should find money primarily for teachers of chemistry, biology and physics who do not have a full load. How much could it cost the state? How many million would it take for them to get their hands on the burden and get to pick up on methodological materials and stuff and be prepared, so-called leather raw?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U107	Thank you, Peter! That's a good question. The country is approaching this from the other side. The state brings back the concept of a broad-profile tractorist, not the concept of a tractorist, but the concept of a broad-profile teacher. Teachers with three to five specialties will be taught at universities. He is a physicist, chemist, mathematician, astronomer, geographer, etc. and then there is some specialty yet at such as biology. Literary teacher is at the same time a historian and psychologist, a diploma is written in several specialties. This will eliminate the underburden of teachers at school. I mean, a person comes to school and he gets his 35 hours, 24 to 26 of which are contact hours, he gives a whole palette of subjects, and so he has a full load, and the state has solved the problem. As you know, if the master can do all the work, it turns out he can't do anything. The financial dimension. If you take off the Pathfinder budget on Innove's website, you'll see how much money is spent on it. I don't know exactly what to say to you right now, and I don't really want to say it, because in fact, our project has a zero budget, i.e. the money is there in the network, and the cost of this project is as good as zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U108	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U109	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Please, tell the public about this apparent contradiction. The purpose of the draft is described in this way: '... where teachers working in under-time schools would replace sick and absent teachers according to their qualifications. " But we do know that mathematics teachers and physics teachers often work under pressure. I don't know physics teachers who work undertime. How do you find a substitute for a physics teacher? Isn't that a more fundamental problem that previous ministers for education and research didn't deal with? We talk for over 15 years that we lack physics and mathematics teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U110	Thank you, Jaanus, very good question! Tallinn University graduated last year from a mathematician and this year did not graduate from any mathematician; one physicist graduated this year, meaning a physics teacher. Where do I get the substitute teachers? The substitute teachers are all around us. If I ever went to study chemistry in my time, we were told that you didn't necessarily have to be a chemist, but you could become a business manager or somebody else, there's a prep for that. I can't tell you how many hundred taxi drivers and physicists are driving around Tallinn, and I can't tell you how many chemists there are among those taxi drivers. But none of them are physically or mentally impossible to give three hours, four hours, five hours, two hours. They can register if they're given that chance. We now have a very well-initiated project 'Young People to School! '. It is the people who work in the second specialty that are trying to come back to the specialty that they have written on the diploma. They're teachers, they could come back to school, and now they can try to work at school. Although the percentage drop-off rate is 20% to 25%. A person comes, tries for two or three months, and then says his nervous system isn't what it's supposed to be in school and goes away. But 70% will be left. That's a very high percentage. Look at the 25% who's dropped out, we have to catch. In the 'Youth School' program! ' to the participants, to the 70% who want to come back to school, we must give hope, we must occupy them with work. That's what this buffer house can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U111	Ladies and gentlemen Tarmo Tamm and Andres Ammas, according to the Rules of Procedure Act, it is possible to put a question to each of the rapporteurs during the debate on this item. You can ask your second question to Viktoria Ladynskaja. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U112	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You mentioned Innove and the Pathfinder. This is indeed a big issue in the Estonian education system and a problem that concerns children who need a diagnosis and the help of a Pathfinder. How do you assess the current system? Is this acceptable to our general education schools? How long is the order of the people and families waiting for the decision of the Pathfinder? How is it organised in other regions, not just in the capital? There are quite a few schools in the capital that deal with these children. But how is this organised, for example, in small local governments? Do you support this system, or do you think it should be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U113	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like a presentation by Viktoria Ladynskaya, Member of the Cultural Commission of the Speaker's Board!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U114	Good afternoon, good ambassadors. On Tuesday, 20 September, a meeting of the Committee on Culture held 248 discussions on the draft decision 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic'. The representative of the Estonian Teachers' Association, the Chairman of the Board and Deputy Chairman of the Estonian Educational Workers' Association, the representative of the Estonian School Leaders' Association, the Head of the Teachers' Department of the Ministry of Education and Research and, of course, members of the Cultural Commission were present. At first, Märt Sults introduced the bill. I would like to mention once again that the aim of the draft is to establish a national system of substitute teachers that would allow teachers working in under-time schools to replace sick and absent teachers according to their qualifications. According to the representative of the Estonian Teachers' Association, there is indeed a need for a system of substitute teachers, but the bill contains a lot of contradictions. He added that a good opportunity to solve a similar problem would be provided by the professional system of teachers set up by the state and would not have to create anything new. It is important not to repeat the mistake made with the Pathfinder centers, i.e. the overwhelming of competence from schools. The Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Association of Educational Workers also confirmed that there is a need for such a system, but the question arises as to how to finance additional places if there is no money in Estonia to pay teachers competitive wages. The Estonian School Leaders' Association does not support the idea set out in the draft decision of creating a national substitute teacher system as a whole and, in particular, the solution set out in the draft explanatory memorandum to create so-called buffer chambers for county Rajasidja centres. In addition, the proposed solution for schools was assessed as practically useless, not working and wasting education money. Toomas Jürgenstein, member of the Committee on Culture, answered that the initiators, in particular Märt Sults, had not considered or supported e-solutions in the replacement teacher system. The Ministry of Education and Research does not support the draft or proposed solution. A representative of the Ministry of Education and Research explained that when talking about part-time, a clear distinction must be made as to whether a person's free will is a chosen or a forced part-time. Furthermore, the head of the school should not be charged with a task, responsibility or obligation to provide the teacher with a full-time job. According to the proposed system, there may be a situation where the school manager wants to give the teacher lessons, but the teacher is more comfortable with the so-called second solution. Finally, Laine Randjärv suggested that interest groups discuss the subject further and look for solutions. The Committee on Culture decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U115	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U116	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! We all know that many substitute lessons are given by teachers who do not have training to give these subjects. Would this option solve this situation and get better quality learning for students? Then the teachers with professional training would give lessons.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U117	Thank you for your question. I would like to remind you that I am primarily talking here about the emotions, proposals and thoughts that were presented in the Commission. So I'm not expressing my point of view. But I say that this question was also raised in committee, and in the opposite sense: is this teacher, who comes in for just an hour or two, competent enough to replace another teacher? He doesn't even know this class, and maybe that's why he doesn't offer the students what the headmaster expects.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U118	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I'll take the word. You said that the draft is a bit crude, based on your personal opinion, perhaps you agree with the principle, but you would like to improve the draft a little bit, supplement it, adjust it. Would you then be willing to cooperate with the Central Party Group, complement this draft and come up with a new, better and more effective one? Or maybe we'll just let this draft go to the next reading and the IRL Group will do it, or you, as a member of the Riigikogu, will propose improvements and then make it more suitable and operational? What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U119	I stress once again that the representative of the Estonian Teachers' Association, who went to the Commission, said that there is a need for a system of substitute teachers, but the bill contains a lot of contradictions. That is also what I am emphasising, and that is exactly what I think, and that is why I cannot accept this proposal now. But I'm sure we should keep working on the idea. Laine Randjärv, who is the leader of our committee, proposed that interest groups continue to discuss the matter among themselves and look for solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U120	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask the representative of the Estonian Central Party Group of the speech chair of the Riigikogu Märt Sultsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U121	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate and thank you very much for your sympathy. But there were two sentences that I wanted to explain. One was that, under no circumstances was I in favour of e-solutions, and I answered no to this proposal. Yes, I said no, but an e-solution means an e-book, online learning, which means that people are looking for Google, as it is now popular among young people. 'What's the word? '''Ah, Google! ' Well, he is. Nobody asks anymore, all Googley, vowels disappear from the Estonian literary material and some kind of online bullshit arises. This is the case: denying e-solutions means that e-learning materials should be used as little as possible unless there is a death penalty. Learning is a process that takes place from person to person. If it's online, it's kind of funny. The hardest hour check in school these days is when the phone can be used. If a student puts a term in Google, he'll get 120 matches. Which one does he read? That's all we're talking about. That's why it was a denial of e-learning. The same buffer house is actually online, it's definitely online. But as far as possible, e-learning must be maintained in the human-human system. As much as possible and give Tara so that it can be done for a long time. This claim that a substitute teacher is not competent is literally spitting in the face of teachers. The teacher is very competent and has no problem going from one class to another and professionally passing on to the students his or her study subject. I have a life experience of that. Some years ago, 10, 12 or 13 years ago, I offered an experiment to a downtown school that all the teachers at the Tallinn Art High School go to that school and give all the classes there, while the teachers at the city centre's elite school come to the Tallinn Art High School and give all the lessons there all day. Which school do you think the teachers refused? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U122	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U123	Good waitress, thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments to the draft 248 have been received. The proposal of the lead committee is to put the draft to a final vote at first reading. Dear colleagues, since the draft decision 248 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of presence before the final vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 42. I will put draft 248 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 30 votes to 7 with 4 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Draft 248 fell out of the procedure. We have finished dealing with the third item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U124	Thank you, Olga! That's a good question. The track forwarder is a stillborn child and this Innove department is also unable to manage Estonia. That's what this whole accident is about. When the Ministry of Education and Research removed support services from schools and banned their funding from teachers' payroll, it was placed under the municipal capacity of local authorities, these things died out. It was then made up of a very good spin, that instead of support services, a department would be set up in the Pathfinder and Innove. The track-finder is an inefficient thing. There are awfully long queues, but if there is a problem at school, it has to be solved right now, right here, not so that when the student has, for example, run together, you have to wait two and a half months in line, and when the order is placed, the same Pathfinder psychologist or logoped, or whoever is there, will make a diagnosis and take a decision based on someone's description. It's a complete... If a surgeon were to start surgery on a book, radio or television, it would be about the same thing. The trackfinder and others are inefficient institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You told me earlier that the proceedings revealed that there were a lot of contradictions in this bill. What inconsistencies did the Commission's work reveal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U126	I have already mentioned these views, but I will also mention the questions that arose when listening to the March Sults. There's a bunch of points here. The cost of the project is zero, which raises questions. On the technical side, questions arose as a result of the total exclusion of the e-system. The tracker is duplicated on many issues, which is also in the explanatory memorandum. Then the question that I have just answered: Can a teacher who has been summoned actually replace another teacher if he has only come to this class for a moment? Again, external experiences, which were a little discussed when the previous waitress appeared. If we are talking, for example, about the experience of Germany, then this system is certainly justified, because they have a second system from the beginning, which is a teacher who can afford a free year from time to time. That is why the system of the buffer chamber mentioned by Mr Sults has been set up there, which offers the opportunity to find the right replacement for this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U127	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U128	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! The previous speaker, Märt Sults, clearly proved that this was a very necessary and interesting draft. But there was certainly also a broader and in-depth discussion in the Commission about the burden on teachers at all. Did you get an overview of how much teachers do not teach because of overload or illness?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U129	Thank you for your question. I understand you'd rather ask about the data in the explanatory memorandum. I guess you've got the data, too. Indeed, there is a percentage of the burden on teachers in the explanatory memorandum, but the debate on this issue was not so intense. We were talking about an idea like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U130	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It's a very simple thing. These things have been done, and indeed, they work very successfully in Estonia. They're labour-rent companies with people written down, still some kind of seamstress, and it's a cook. They're waiting, and if there's a temporary job, they'll be sent there. The system works very well, perfectly. It's a very simple system. It's basically not something else. But what does your life experience say, why do simple things sometimes become so complicated that they have to be discussed here on committees and ask dozens of questions? Is it really just because the members of the Riigikogu don't want to go home? I don't know, they may have an evil woman at home, and they want to spend more and more time here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U132	Thank you. I'm probably not going to talk about my experience, but the head of the teaching department of the Ministry of Education and Research gave an example of the Swedish system. In particular, labour hire is used there, and companies mediate teachers and logos and other support professionals. This kind of system could be dealt with by a labour leasing company, but this should certainly not be the role of the state. I guess that's the appropriate answer to your question. I, too, asked exactly the same question in the committee session. As regards the establishment of the system by the company, the initiator replied that it did not support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U133	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U134	Good manager! Good waitress! How long have you been discussing this in the committee, how many minutes, and how many school leaders or educators who know what we're talking about were involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U135	Thank you for your question. I told you who was in the first place. I guess the experts who were there are qualified to speak on behalf of the teachers. Similarly, it is a little strange for you to ask how long it took us to have such an intense debate. I can't tell by heart how long, but definitely not less than an hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U136	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This is a very serious problem, on which this draft will provide a perfectly sensible solution. Why don't you support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U138	I understand that your question is because you were not in the Chamber at the moment I answered the previous questions. I have listed the reasons why this bill is not quite such as to allow me to vote in favour of it now. I would rather abstain, not because I do not want to support this idea, but because I think this draft is raw. That is my personal opinion, not the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U139	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U140	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Did they talk about money at the committee meeting? I didn't understand what the last waitress said. All of us in this hall probably want to raise teachers' salaries. How much would it cost the state to implement this idea and where would it come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U141	That's a very good question. However, as the previous rapporteur mentioned, there are no real figures in the explanatory memorandum regarding the technical implementation of the system. I guess the cost of the project, as he said here on the remote, is zero, and that's why we didn't talk so much about the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U142	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U143	Let's move on to item number four. The first reading of the draft law amending the obligation of departure and refusal of entry law initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Eerik-Niles Kross! There's a lot of noise in the hall. Please, let us honor the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U144	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! I will give an introduction to the draft law amending the law on the obligation to leave and refusal of entry initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and pending in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Three words from the history of this bill. It was initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs without a proposal from the Government of the Republic, so it is such a small initiative of the Riigikogu, which is unfortunately not too common. I am pleased that the Riigikogu has also done something to bring our general threat into line with the law or vice versa. A working group was set up to sign or negotiate this bill, including representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Defence Police, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu wrote the text of the Act. Why do you need such a change of law? Today, we actually have a proper law on the obligation to leave and refusal of entry, but it has not been amended in this respect since 2010. Let us think for a moment about the international situation. Meanwhile, the refugee crisis has begun, there is a terrorist crisis in the world, there is a war in Ukraine, Russia is aggressive. The threat picture in both Europe and our region has changed greatly. This draft concerns only § 29 of the Act, which provides a legal basis for the prohibition of entry. There are four places they want to specify. Firstly, in the current law, the basis for imposing an entry ban is the fact that a person works in a hostile intelligence service, although the word 'neathy' does not exist in the law, because the law is neutral and blind, as we know. The proposal is to extend this basis to persons known to be agents or influence agents, i.e. related to security authorities. Secondly, according to the current logic, in order to be banned, a person must have violated human rights or done something evil in Estonia, but if he has done so in Iraq, North Korea, Russia or China, this is not directly the basis for not letting him into Estonia. It is now proposed that if it is known that a person has brutally violated human rights in another country, this could be a sufficient basis for not letting him into Estonia. Logic is that maybe he will come here to do the same thing, even though there are many cases where we know that he will probably come to Estonia in a spa instead of going to violate human rights here. However, if he's done it somewhere else, it's a good enough basis for us not wanting him here. The third amendment relates slightly to the second and concerns the threat assessments of security authorities. If, in its threat assessment, the Defence Police or the Foreign Intelligence Office considers that someone who is known to have supported a terrorist organisation or is part of a criminal organisation or organisation that violates human rights may be dangerous, even though he himself has done nothing wrong, a threat assessment is sufficient to use it as a basis for imposing an entry ban. The fourth area is currently in some dispute with the Ministry of the Interior. I'm going to say that the Government of the Republic has presented its position on this bill. They broadly support it, but they have some specific proposals. We will certainly continue to argue about this draft in the committees. Looking at the current situation of the hybrid war, we can see that in some ways this bill brings Estonia's legal space into line with the new threats and the situation of the hybrid war. This concerns in particular this fourth area. The proposal is to introduce into the law such a point that the entry ban becomes the basis for a refusal of entry in another NATO or European Union country. At the moment, it is possible to introduce an EU entry ban in Estonia or Estonia's own. But in fact, threats are almost never just Estonia's perils, but there are fewer, rather regional ones, and very rarely there are pan-European threats. It could be said that this point would give some opportunity to take regional risks into account. For example, if someone has a refusal of entry to Finland or Lithuania or Poland, it is sufficient for our security authorities to assess the danger and understand why they have a refusal of entry in that country in order to place this person also under an entry ban in Estonia. I will respond proactively to some of the questions that I am sure you want to ask. Firstly, I have been asked in the corridors whether this is not over-regulation. Certainly not, it is rather a consideration of new threats. Just as we are now modernising the foundations of security policy, so we can see that this law has been partly in the way of time, and we need to change it, because our opponents are precisely taking into account the weaknesses of our legal space and looking for holes to damage us. Many of you know that there is a law in Estonia such as the International Sanctions Act, and it has been asked why we do not want to amend the International Sanctions Act instead of amending the Obligation to Leave and Prohibition of Entry Act. It is true that a large part of the amendments concern international life and international threats, but the scope of the International Sanctions Act concerns the international sanctions already imposed and their implementation in Estonia. This law is not intended to lay down the grounds for Estonia's internal security, but has not yet been sanctioned internationally. So this law is precisely the right law. It has been asked whether these threats are theoretical. There are examples in the explanatory memorandum that do not directly concern Estonia, examples from Germany and Russia are given. There is also a recent example from France when football hooligans caught in France during the European Championship because they broke order and apparently had gone there to cause riots, were expelled from the country and were banned from entry. As they did not have an entry ban in neighbouring countries, nor did they have a European Union sanction, it was easy for them to return immediately through Spain or Portugal. All of this is our life today. There are many examples, if one could have avoided some danger with the foundations established by this law, but it was not possible to do so, it was only possible to act when the person had already done something in Estonia and here. Then there was a reason to send him out, even though he could have done it at the border. I'm not going to go into the details, so many of these things aren't public either. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U145	Thank you. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U146	Good manager! Good waitress! Unlike you, I've never been involved in intelligence, and I haven't had any countries refused entry either. I like that initiative from time to time also comes from the Riigikogu. But explain to me, as a person who knows nothing about it, why it is so sudden now, and why this European Union ban on entry or Estonia is not enough. Where do you think that shoe's gonna squeeze the most for you to come out with it right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U147	As far as speed is concerned, this draft has not actually been prepared too quickly. It was discussed for the first time in the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the spring of last year, so it has soon been so-called marinating for a year and a half. I will answer the second part of the question: I do not wish to introduce a new entry ban as such. They simply want to specify the grounds for refusal of entry in the existing law. We are still talking about Estonia's ban on entry.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U148	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U149	Thank you. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum mentions the Magnitski thing, nothing else. I don't have time to talk about what the substance of this matter is and what the circumstances of this case were. Tragic case, yes, but unfortunately, people die in prison too. In Estonia, we read a few times a year that one person or another has hanged himself in prison or that the circumstances of his death are just blurry. We know there are things like that all over the world. I hope you know very well what Abu Ghraib means, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U150	Too good, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U151	Abu Ghraib is not mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, but Magnitski is. Doesn't that seem one-sided to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U152	We've talked about this before. I have wondered whether it would be possible to propose amendments to the draft explanatory memorandum. The smarter ones have told me I don't think so. When we read the text of the draft, we will see, as I have emphasised earlier, that this text is completely neutral. In fact, I am happy to take the opportunity to read the paragraph. According to this section, the prohibition of entry is also based on the fact that "there are data or there are reasonable grounds to believe that an alien has participated or contributed to violations of human rights in a foreign country which have resulted in the death of a person, serious damage to health, political motives or other serious consequences of an unjust conviction'. In fact, we also agreed in this conversation that the wording of this section can be applied in itself in all such cases, i.e. it can be applied to Chinese military personnel who have burned Tibetan villages, to American sergeants who have tortured prisoners in Iraq, to those who have bullied Magnitsky, etc. So when it comes to the name in one of the explanatory notes, I'll say it's just an example that everyone knows, which explains what kind of basis it is. I am quite prepared to continue the debate in the Commission on whether the examples used in the explanatory memorandum have any impact on the text of the law. But once again I will mention what this point will actually update in the Estonian legal space. Since life has become a very international level, new risk models are being prepared, for example, for people who can be sent to Estonia or Latvia or Lithuania with some specific plan and whose papers are clean, it is a preventive measure on the one hand and a sanctioning measure on the other. We don't have that basis right now. I think that the introduction of such a point protects the interests of all Estonian citizens and Estonian residents.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U153	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U154	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! How is this issue legally resolved in our allied countries, if it has been resolved at all? Secondly, will the entry ban for Finland or Sweden take effect in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U155	I'll start at another point. No other country's ban on entry would automatically become effective in Estonia. Currently, there is automatically a European Union ban on entry in Estonia if the European Union establishes it. But if Finns, Danes or Portuguese have put someone on their country's entry ban list, then it doesn't automatically mean anything. However, it gives us the opportunity to use it as a basis if we find that this person is undesirable in Estonia too. The second consideration, which the Ministry of the Interior has offered in its proposals to establish this basis, is, for example, the same case that I mentioned in France as football hooligans. It actually protects, in some respects, freedom of movement within the Schengen area. After all, what happened in France was that, following repeated refusal of entry violations during football matches, border controls were introduced, which are still there. If you fly to France within the European Union, you will also pass border controls. We would also defend, say, the interests of Finland, if, for example, we did not allow a person on the list of persons who were refused entry to a Finnish country to cross the sea with Tallink. Your first question was about other countries. It's regulated quite differently. There are some relatively soft and human rights attitudes within the European Union, which, of course, we accept. One of them is that all these administrative decisions can be challenged in court. We'll keep it that way. The government still has a burden of proof. However, it must state the reasons to the extent that it does not directly undermine the security of the State under which the prohibition is imposed. That is why it is important that we have these bases in the law, otherwise that justification would be very vague. In many allied countries, it is at all an executive power, for example, in the United States, as I have felt very well in my own right. These grounds are not considered necessary to explain and maybe there are no explanations, the executive simply decides that this guy is on the list and that's the whole story. We don't want to go that way. We are still going on a European road where we are trying to strike a balance between the interests of the country and the freedoms of the individual.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U156	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U157	Thank you. I don't really mind the text. We've been talking to you about this many times, haven't we, and I gave you an example of this possible football fan case. Thanks for saying that right now! But let's continue to develop this situation. Suppose Russia is an investor in Estonia. She is very useful to Estonia, but she is a fan of Moscow's Dinamo and goes with this team to Portugal. Whether he did something in there or not, he's gonna get a Portuguese entry ban. He was in the group that was rioting there, and he's banned from entering. According to your proposal, the person who invests in Estonia can no longer come here. But here he has no football interest, Moscow's Dinamo doesn't come here, and probably won't come here in the next few years. How are we going to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U158	You don't get that kind of automaticity. This draft simply provides a basis for discretion. If a person is an investor in Estonia and he has been with a group whose members have violated the law and maybe been banned from entering Portugal, and if we consider this person dangerous, then the government can use this basis in the future. But some kind of automatism that anyone who's a football fan automatically gets banned, of course not. That would be totally insane.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U159	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask Andres Anvelt, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U160	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on Tuesday, 20 September, including. Apart from the members of the committee, the previous speaker, the initiator or representative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Ruth Annus, the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior... I'm sorry! Ele Russak and Katerin Peärnberg, advisers of the same department, were at the fourth item in the debate, Ruth Annus was not there. Since the previous speaker has already described in detail the content of the draft law, I will not waste your esteemed time on it. I will bring out a few keywords, which was also highlighted by the representative of the Ministry of the Interior. He first introduced the positions of the Government of the Republic and explained that the Government of the Republic decided to support the draft in principle, having heard the positions of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before taking the decision. The Defence Police and the Police and Border Guard Board were also involved in the discussions. He pointed out that the first and second points of the draft were decided to fully support the Government of the Republic. On the third point, the Government of the Republic would like to make small clarifications, as this is the basis provided for by the International Sanctions Act. The representative of the Government of the Republic thought that this could be established by the International Sanctions Act. The representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs also explained that, as far as point 4 of the draft is concerned, the current law also allows for the use of a threat assessment by the Defence Police Department and that is what is done in practice. The question is simply that the link between the risk assessment and the individual must be shown. Therefore, the Government of the Republic does not support the amendment set out in point 4 of the draft, as this provision does not add value in this form. Point 5 states that the mere fact that an alien has been refused entry in a Member State of the European Union or NATO or in a Member State of the Schengen Convention could also serve as a basis for imposing an entry ban in Estonia. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior explained that the Government of the Republic is of the opinion that this ban cannot be imposed in this way, but it must be shown that if a person is a threat to the security of one Member State, how it is therefore a threat to the security of Estonia. If, for some reason, there is no Schengen entry ban for a person, but there is actually a need for a regional entry ban, it can be shown that a person endangers not only the public order and security of the Republic of Estonia, but also of another country. The Government of the Republic proposes that this point be amended and worded as follows: '... there are reasonable grounds to believe that the presence of an alien in Estonia may endanger the security, public order, public morality or the health of other persons of the Republic of Estonia or another Member State of the European Union, of a Member State of the Schengen Convention or of a Member State of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. ' The representative of the Ministry of the Interior described how information on the introduction of an entry ban is shared through partner services from different countries. If the Defence Police Department receives information for which reason a state has imposed an entry ban on a person, then unfortunately it must not be shown to the court in Estonia, which means that the possibility of judicial review may disappear. In that case, there is a problem, nor does the draft go against the Constitution in any way. A lively debate took place between the members of the Commission. As the previous rapporteur has already explained here, § 29 of the current exit obligation and prohibition of entry Act establish grounds for refusal of entry, which are not virtually any automatic, these and the changes that have been added are still discretionary, which the Ministry of the Interior uses in conjunction with the authorities of its administration, and therefore do not have to take this list as an absolute obligation. As the previous speaker said, this person, who senses that his rights have been violated in some way, has a right of appeal for every point. In addition, the Members of the Commission asked whether there have been specific cases in which this draft law has now reached our table. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior said that, fortunately, not all security threats have materialised in the territory of the Republic of Estonia, but the reality of today's world and the fact that Schengen is a borderless area and the movement of people is under control, which is why most of the provisions of § 29 have actually been introduced pro-actively. Member of the Commission Mikhail Stalnukhin noted that he had a negative attitude to the draft as the case of Sergei Magnitski is illustrated in the draft explanatory memorandum, so it is no longer a neutral, objective draft. He argued that the initiators of the draft should consider the possibility of withdrawing from the explanatory memorandum all that refers directly to Russia, which is 30% of the historical homeland of Estonian residents. On this point, Kalle Laane, the chairman of the committee, asked whether the initiator of the draft law agreed to amend the explanatory memorandum in such a way that the explanatory memorandum did not provide an example of Sergei Magnitski. Eerik-Niles Kross, representative of the initiator of the draft act, replied that the initiator did not agree. Then came the procedural decisions. President Kalle Laanet proposed that the draft be sent to first reading by 27 September, i.e. today with the proposal to finish the first reading of the draft. There were 4 members of the Commission in favour, no one opposed and no abstentions were Mr Stalnukhin, Mikhail. [[Kalle Laanet, Mart Nutt, Andres Anvelt and Andre Sepp]] The committee president proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 11 October 2016 at 5.15 p.m. (by which all the members present) and the draft text be set as rapporteur. That concludes the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U161	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U162	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U163	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U164	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is not often here to talk about an issue in which there is impartiality, i.e. there is no hot supporter or adversary, but we still have something to talk about here. In its first sentences, the initiators' representative pointed out as a plus that this draft had been drafted not in the Ministry, but in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Despite all the respect for this committee, I deeply doubt whether the Committee on Foreign Affairs should deal with the affairs of the Committee on Legal Affairs or the Ministry of the Interior. Anyone can, of course, do whatever it takes, do not take it as a restriction of democracy, but there are probably professionals in the ministry and there are probably more of them there. One argument as to why it was necessary to initiate this draft was that the law had not been amended, as it would have been, since 2010. [[Interjection.]] Huh? This cut, great. We probably have 1,600, 1,700 or 1800 laws by now. It would be interesting to see how many of them have not been changed, but the laws as a whole. I don't think in the last ten years, at least half of those laws, 600-800, nobody's touched a finger. So that's not an argument. Now let's talk about the explanatory statement. I want to remind you of a few things. If the court sometimes fails to interpret the law, what does it do? Orders an analysis of the law. What, then, is the basis? The explanatory notes shall be used as the basis. It's a daily practice. To tell you that it's just an explanatory statement is extremely wrong. The explanatory memorandum is a very important document. If he wasn't, he wouldn't be needed at all. I would like to remind you, by the way, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, this argument, too, was that the preamble has an explanatory statement. I would like to remind you that a few words in one of the Preambles were in their own time the Estonian-Russian border treaty, several times. That is why the explanatory statement is very important. At the moment, without arguments, it would sound like it just stays where it's going to be, like it's going to be decisive. I'm not going to repeat what's going on here. The explanatory memorandum is written in Magnitski, but let's take these examples from all over the world. I don't mind if there's a Chinese example. Everything that had to do with the square that it was called, Tian'anmen, everyone who participated in it, we're gonna put it in. It's a well-known thing. I have an entire file full of articles like this: the American sergeant, who got drunk, went to the village next to the base and killed three families, a total of 13 people; these men, the sergeants, or who they were, who were raving in Abu Ghraib, etc. The argument of unilaterality is not just a play of speech, and it is not a desire to justify the political situation in a country. It's just that if this bill is unbiased, someone might take it seriously. We often use words quite crudely. We should address internal problems, the same integration in 2017. Instead, our good Prime Minister comes out and says we don't need a transit. Where are these transit companies now? I have many acquaintances among those who used to be very successful in running transit companies. They are now somewhere quite far away; they no longer have drivers or their base in Estonia. Those are the words, aren't they? Ah, we don't need that gas pipe! Great! Let 2000 jobs go to Finland, then this income was in billions of kroons each year, but let it go to Finland and Sweden. For the sake of slogans, we are losing economic benefits. It's not normal. Why am I standing here? Because exactly as well, calmly, I have explained this in the Commission. There was a way to take that sentence out calmly, and that's it. I don't see a problem in the rest of the text. There are, of course, stupid things like the one I was talking about. A person is banned from entering Greece because, for example, he did something wrong in the wrong place. He won't be put in jail, but he'll be denied entry. The countries do not need to explain or explain to him or anyone else why this refusal of entry has been imposed. This person may be a loyal successful businessman or actor who would like to come here to show his art or bring his investment here. And there is nothing here, as you said, to be considered, that is not. It has been said here that if it has a refusal of entry in another European Union or NATO country, it is also valid in Estonia. That is exactly how it will be interpreted. Fortunately, almost no one listens to this debate. There are now 20 to 25 people in this hall, and that is a big secret for all of us. No one's going to read all this unless that sentence remains in the explanatory statement. I am about to say that I am not going to make any amendment, nor am I going to insist on my group, that we make this amendment, because it cannot go on indefinitely, to show where the mistake has been made. We need a transit, we need a gas pipeline, we need ports, we just don't get out without it. There's a certain tiredness from repeating it. We've talked everything out of it. I understand that the representative of the initiators has absolutely no objection to this proposal. Do so on your own initiative, just take this sentence out at the next constitutional committee meeting and there is peace in the house. All the rest of the stuff that's in this bill is perfectly good for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U165	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põllea, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U166	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk a little bit about the background to the birth of this bill. As the draft author said, it was not born overnight, hastily or excessively, the work on this draft began last spring, and the initiation of the draft is precisely because of the current geopolitical and political situation, the whole situation in which we are today, which we are mutually committed and which we must deal with. It didn't just come out of nowhere. It has nothing to do with how many laws we have that have not changed to date or which have already been amended. There was simply a specific need to deal with the amendment of the exit obligation and prohibition of entry law, as the current version does not guarantee the security of the Estonian state in the best way and to the greatest extent. That is precisely the point and the content of this draft. After all, this is also the goal of our institutions and our power structures: to ensure the security of Estonian society and Estonian state. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this draft repeatedly, with representatives of the Defence Police and lawyers from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our own Chancellery of the Riigikogu. It really did work very, very seriously. The wording changed several times, something was improved, something was taken away. So it's still the result of a lot of work and effort. Let's see what it says. Indeed, this bill is not intended to persecute any random people, that we simply impose a ban on someone because we do not like him or somewhere in Portugal, as was the case here, he has been denied entry. It still gives our own authorities a much better basis to consider and justify why some individuals should not be allowed to enter Estonia. It is quite clear here what are the bases when we refuse to let certain persons into Estonia. This draft was also further developed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I dare say that this is a draft that we should all support, and I call on all good colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-27_U167	Thank you. Now, as manager, I say that there are no more requests for speech. I'm closing the negotiations. But the next procedure I can't tell you, we'll continue the procedure tomorrow. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
